_> 776 C'7-
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report N'o. 12280-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
M--EXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATIOb NETWORKS
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 24, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12280 ME
Type: SAR
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operation Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mey be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT.S
Currencv, Ulnit      =    Mexican New Peso (NS)
US$1                      N$3. I0
US$322,581          -     N$ million
(December 1993)
(Note: All US$ values in this report should be understood
as US$ equivalents.)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                    =       3.28 feet (it)
I kilometel (km)               =       0.62 mile (mi)
I hectare (ha)                 =       10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
I square kilometer (kM2)               100 ha
I metric ton (m ton)           =       2,205 pounds
I liter per second (Ips)       =       0.26 gallons per second (gps)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IUUGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMET PROJECT
ABBREVIATICNS
AGSAL         Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BANCOMEXT National Foreign Trade Bank (Banco Nacional de Comercio y Exportaci6n)
BANRURAL   National Agrarian Bank (Banco Rural Nacional)
CFE           Federal Power Conmmission (Comision Federal de Electricidad)
CNA           National Water Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del Agua)
CONASUPO   National Food Supply Company
CPI           Consumer Price Index
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organizaton, United Nations Agency
FEGA          Rural Credit Trust Fund (Fideicomiso para el Credito Rural)
FIDEC         Trade Development Fund (Fondo para el Desarrollo del Comercio)
FIRA          Trust Funds for Agriculture (Bank of Mexico) (Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relaci6n
con la Agricultura)
GATT          General Agreement on Tariffs aad Trade
GIs           Geographic Information System
OPS           General Position System
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
D             Irigation District (Distrito de Riego)
3DSP          Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project (Loan 3419-ME)
IFRR          Internal Financial Rate of Return
IA            Mexican Water Technology Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologfa del Agua)
INIFAP        National Forestry and Agricultural Research Institute (Instituto Nacional de
Investigaciones Forestales y Agropecuarias)
IU           Irrigtion Unit (Unidad de Riego)
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
NAFIN         National Finance Instition, SNC (Nacional Financiera, Sociedad Nacional de
Credito)
NAFTA         North American Free Trade Agreement
O&M           Operaticn and Maintenance
OlRyD         Irrigation and Drainage Engineering Field Offices (CNA)(Oficinas de Ingenierfa de
Riego y Drenaje)
P'lI          Low Income Producer (Productor de Bajos Ingresos)
PMS           Project Monitoring System
PRODERITH Program for Integral Development of the Humid Tropics (Programa de Desarrollo
Rural Integrado para el Tr6pico Hdmedo)
PRONASOL   National Solidarity Program (Programa Nacional de Solidaridad)
PU            Project Unit
SARH          Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (Secretarfa de AgricultLua y Recursos
Hidraulicos)
SECOFI        Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Development (Secretarfa de Comercio y
Fomento Industrial)
SEDESOL       Mnistry of Social Development (Secretarfa de Desarrollo Social)
SOE           Statement of Expenses
TOR           Terms of Reference
WUO           Water Users Organization (Organizacifn de los Usuarios)
This document has a restricted dtribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without Wodd Dank authoriaion. |



MEXaCO
ON-FARM AND MINOR ItUGATION NETOIU(S MROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page NoL
LOAN AND PROXECT S£UtM        RY  ........................,                                       i
L THE AGRU ULTURAL SECTOR                                                                         1
A.  Poliy Contxt                                                                          2
B.  TheTrazsiontoaMarketAgrictdtre                                                        2
C.  A4utmRent to NAPTA                                                                    4
IL THE IRRIGATION SUBECTOR                                                                        S
A..  Backpound                                                                       .
IL  RlecentPoflicyC bangesintherigationSubsecor                                           6
C.  Lons Leaued fromPreviouswankProjec  ............................ 8
_II. THEPROJECT                                        ....8
A. RatonabforBankn Ivolvement                 ..
. Project Objectiv.                                                                       9
C. Phdoect DescripSon .10
1. Technical Support, Communication and Tining Component .11
(a)FeasibilityStudies..... 11
(b) Traning and ProfessionalDevelopmet                 ..11
(c) Field Monitoring and Soil Surveys .12
(d) Commuication and Participation.12
(e)AdaptiveResearch .............................                         .   13
(f) TeubnicalAsistance .13
2. Mino Nework InMeents Compoet. .13
(a) Field Surveys, Engineering Senrices, Designs, and
ConstructionSpervision.                      .        .                  14
(b)   Mahinery for Contraction andMainteance         .      .     .14
(c)  Construction Mateias . . .....                           .                1s
lbis report Is based aon the eindp of a World BDank apprasal missin which viied Moe fkom Jue 21 to July 10,
1993.  oe mistao was composd o MesesMnes. Jose Shnas Mibk (Maa), Rudolf va Puymbroeek, Hyko
laeyendeocker Tera Roal and an Wolw of the World Bank, as wel as Jorge Rioc* Antonio Sagardol, Antonio
Vaccari, and lvo Mard of FAMOCP, and te fonowing cossultants  Rega Martie (wer), Jua Mar
caamls), Nguyen Quang lhc (ydrologist), and Laudo Berdes (Orgaizatfon and Monkoring Specialat). 'Ie
Diion Chie i Micael Bae ad the Department Direcor is Eberto Segura.



CONTENTS (Continued)                                                                                       Page No.
(d)    Minor Network Civil Works            ..........................  15
(e)    Inventory Control               ..........................  15
3.   On-Farm Improvements Component              ........................... 16
D. Project Costs andFMnaning              ...................................... 17
1.   Cost  ...................................  17
2. Financing                                      ............................. 18
E. Project Organization and Managent .............................. 20
1.   Implementing Agencies  .............................  20
2.  Procurement ...................................                                                 20
3. Disbursements ................                                                                   22
4. A.ccmnts and Audits ................ 23
S.   Monitoring of Project Implementation and Bank Supevision  ................. 24
(a)    Performance Monitoring and Supevision by the Bank ................. 24
(b)   Implementation Indicators  .................................. 25
(c)  Impact Indicators . ........................................ 25
(d)    Annual Budget and Work Plan  ............................... 25
(a)    Annual Budget and Plaming Review ............................ 25
(f)    PtojectMidtermReview   ..........                 ......................... 26
F. Project Beniefts  ..............................................    26
Economic Analysis .............................................. 27
G. CostRec  'ery .................................................  27
1.   The Legal Framevorc ......................................... 27
2. Capital Cost Rewovery .......................................... 28
3.  O&M Cost Recoveiy ......................................... 28
L EnvironmentalEffects ............................................. 29
L RoleofWomen ..............................................   29
I. Reguatory andAdmniWstativeChages ................................. 30
X ProjectRis ..........................................                                                   31
lV. AGREEMENTSREACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ........                                       .................. 32



CONTENTS (Continued)                                                                     page No.
ANNEXES
Annex A.   Lemons Leaned from Pviow Bank Project  ............................ 36
Anne B.   Poject Costs  ................................................. 39
A-tex C.   Esimated Sdule of Bank Diburseemts .............................. 41
Annex D.   Technological Support, Communications, and Trining Component ....          .......... 42
Annex E.   Miuorlrrigation Network lnprovenents Component ................ ...... 48
Annex F.  MNintnae and Construction Machinery Sub-Component ................... 56
Annex G.   On-Fam mprovement Component ....    ............................. 63
AnnexLH.   Proje  Chbarts ................................. 69
Annex L    Economic Evaluation .................................                               73
Annex .   Project Suprvson and Monitoring .................................   77
Annex k  Selection of Subprojects . ................................. 111
Annex L    Fesibiity Studies and Construion Desig   Scedues ..................... 115
Anex AL   Public Investment Cost Recovery  ..........          ......................... 119
Annex N.   Goverment Policy Letter .        ....................................... 124
Annex 0.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project FIles  .................. 127
MAP IBRD No. 2IS1



MCO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:          United Mexican States
Executng Agency:   Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA)
lBeneficiaries:     Irrigation farmers (over 40,000) organized in Water User Organizations
(WUOs) located in 14 Irrigation Districts ([Ds) in nine states amd covering
about 400,000 hectares ("core area"). The project components related to on-
fam and minor irrigation networks improvements will benefit the "core
area."
Loan Amount:        US$200 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayment l 15 years, including a three-year grace period, at the standard
variable rate.
Project Objectives:   The project seeks to make the Mexican irrigation subsector more efficient and
less reliant on government finds, through shared investments by beneficiaries
and the Government. It will improve the irrigation system's minor hydraulic
infrastructure, which will permit water savings and operational flexibility,
and so support more intensive irrigated cropping, better yields, and
diversification into high value crops. These developments will increase the
profitability and sustainability of irrigated agriculture, as well as the potential
for exploiting new markets to be developed under the North American Free
Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Increased private investment in irrigation will
be encouraged by the participation of WUOs and farmers in decision-making
about investments and priorities, under a sound legal, regulatory, and
administrative framework.
Specfic objectves are to: (a) reduce loss and waste of irrigation water;
(b) promote decentralization and private investment in irrigation; (c) increase
cropping intensities and yields; and (d) increase crop diverqification into
higher value crops.
Project Components: The operation would have three components:
(a)    Techologica Support, C     aons ad Training (US$39.6
mfllon total cost) to assist farmers and their WUOs to develop and
implement improvements in minor network and on-farm irrigation
systems. Invesnents would be made in: training technical staff
(from WUOs, CNA's Irrigation and Drainage Engineering Field
Offices (OIRYD), private banks, FERA, technical assistance



- ii -
consultants, and others); field surveys and studies to support the
implementation of on-farm and minor network improvements;
adaptive research for water management; technical assistance from
OIRYD to WUOs; and equipment and material for training.
(b)    Minor Network Improvements (US$259.6 million), comprising
mainly field surveys, engineering works, small irrigation and
drainage networks, water measurement and control structures, access
roads, electrical distribution systems, regulating works and
eqipment. The component is designed to help farmers and their
WUOs to improve off-farm minor irrigation and drainage networks
related to command areas of between 80 and 500 hectares. The
completion or improvement of such works will allow farmers to save
water and to develop mare frequent, flexible, and dependable
irrigation schedules; together, these actions would increase
productivity, and permit diversification into higher value crops or
intensified cropping. The investment cost of this component will be
shared by farmers and the Government. Financing will be channelled
through CNA, which will be responsible for recovering the farmers'
50% share of capital costs through an additional and specific
sucharge on the water fees currently collected by WUOs (which are
paid by all irrigated farmers).
(c)    On-farm Improvements (about US$269.6 million), mainly
comprsing land leveling, on-farm distribution and drainage systems,
control and measurement devices, internal regulating tanks, and
pressurized irrigation systems. These improvements would be
entirely financed by the farmers through cash from savings (10%),
labor contributions (10%), and money borrowed from the national
rural credit system (80%).
Cod and Thiadg   Total project costs are estimated at US$568.8 million. Project baseline costs
Man:                 are US$501.6 million; US$15.6 million is for physical contingencies, and
IJS$51.6 million for price contingencies. US$200.0 million will be provided
uy the World Bank, US$283.4 million by the Govermment of Mexico
(US$137.2 million through fiscal funds and US$146.2 million through
rediscunts from second-tier banks (FIRA, BANCOMEXT and NAFIN), and
US$85.4 by the private sector (US$46.3 million from participating farmers
and US$39.1 million as loans from private banks). Of the total project cost,
US$553.0 million will be for investment, and US$15.8 million for
incremenal recurrent costs.
Cost Recovery:       There wil) be 100% cost recovery for on-farm improvements and 50%
recovery for minor networks improvements. The current level of cost
recovery for operations and maintenance (100%) will be retained. There will
be no cost recovery for technological support, conmmunications, and training.
Beefts:              The project's "core area" covers about 400,000 hectares. That is equivalent
to about 8% of the total irrigated area in Mexico, and includes 20% of the
IDs that have been transferred to water users (i.e., where irrigating farmers
are responsible for operation and maintenance, including financing). The



- iii -
project will directly benefit over 40,000 farmers (of whom 50% currently
have incomes around the minimum wage) in 14 selected IDs.
Expected benefits include: higher production stemming from increased
cropping intensities and yields, and from a change to a higher value and
diversified crop mix; greater return to public and private investment in
irrigation development; energy savings; and the generation of employment in
the agriculture sector. In addition, cost recovery, correct water pricing, and
improved regulatory and administrative policies related to irrigation water
management are expecte'! to reduce water waste by 15-20%.
ERR:                 The expected economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is 19%. The 10
sample subprojects analyzed during preparation have ERRs ranging from
13% to 26 %. To be eligible for inclusion in the project, subprojects must
show ERRs of at least 12%.
Risks:               Bank experience worldwide, and in Mexico in particular, suggests that this
type of project faces three main risks: The first risk relates to the provision
of adequate and timely government counterpart funds. This risk will be
addressed, in part, through the monitoring of CNA's annual budgets and by
the commitment of Government, through a policy letter, to provide adequate
and timely budget support. A second risk relates to the availability for each
subproject of complete feasibility studies, field surveys, detailed designs, and
up-front agreements for implementation and cost-sharing with the
beneficiaries, as well as the delivery of construction materials and machinery
in line with actual subproject implementation. These risks will be addressed
by ensuring that de. led subproject proposals needed for the first year of
project implementatioL are completed prior to Loan Effectiveness, and are
thereafter completed at least one year in advance of need, and through a
dependable monitoring and supervision of the procrement, pooling and
distribution of materials and equipment. As a condition of Effectiveness,
CNA will appoint a specialized firm for inventory control of construction
materials and machinery. A third risk relates to farmers' willingness to
invest in on-farm improvements oy borrowing money, and the availability of
such funds as needed. These possible credit constraints will be addressed by
technical assistance, demcnstration plots, and training for farmers and local
bank staff-the current portfolio of FIRA rediscount to private banks' on-farm
investments for irrigation is about US$120 million equivalent, which indicates
sufficient access to credit by the farmers expected to benefit under the
project.
Poverty Category:    The expected project impact on poverty will be indirect. The project is
expected to generate about 52,000 new jobs through incremental harvested
land (150,000 ha) and diversification into high value crops (50,000 ha) like
fruits and vegetables, which are labor intensive.



- iv -
PROJECT COST SUMMAY
Project Component                                   Local          Foreign        Total
___________________________________________  USS million
A.  Technological Support, Communications                           2             12.1           37.4
and Training
S.  Minor Networks Improvements                                   142.1           Du            225.3
C. On-farm Improvements                                           171.4           67.6          2389
Total Baseline Costs                                              38             16Z.9          501.6
Phyaical Contingencies                                            5.0           10.5            15.6
Price Contingencies                                              36.6           15.0           51.6
Total Project Costs                                              _      3        188.5          568.
PROJECT FINMNCING PIAN
Local          Foreign        Total
Financiers
l _______________________________________________                            USS   million
IBRD                                                               66.0          134.0          200.0
Government of Nexico (including taxes)                            136.9            0.4          137.2
Rural Credit Rediscount                                           111.5           34.6           146.2
Farmers and Private Banks (cash, in kind and credit)               65.9           19.5           85.4
Totl                                                              380.31B
ESTJMTE DISBUMEN
(U   Mmlion)
I     IBRO FY                  1995         1996         1997          1998           1999         2000
Anmual                       35*           40           40            40            30            15
Cwuluative                   35            75          115           155         i185            200        l
*       Includes an initial deposit to the Special Account of US$14 million and up to US$20 million in
reoacive finacing for expnditres incurred after June 21, 1993.



-O
ON-FARM AND MIKOR IRGAIION NETWORKS IMPROVENENr PROJECT
L THE AGRICULTURAL SEOR
1.1   The agricultural sector pls an importat role in Mexico's economy, accouing for
approximately 7.3% of GDP (1992) and employing 23% of the economically active population. The
agricultural area is estimated at 22 million ha, 16 million ha of which are rainfed and 6 million ha
under irrigationAl The sector's annual growth rates from 1940 to 1965 were robust: an aveage of
4.6% overall, with 5% in crops, 2.6% in livestock, and 3.9% in forestry. The historical pace of
growth was maintained by expanding the cropped area, shifting rainfed to irrigated land, and, for
some crops, raising yields significantly. Other factors in this growth Included the widespread
adoption of new varieties, accelerated mechinizaion, and greater use of chemical inputs. Afer the
mid-1960s, agicultural growth slipped and averaged only 2% annually from 1966 to 1991. Ihis
disappointing performance is attributable to: (a) increasingly restrictive government policies; (b) a
decrease in the rate of Irrigation development; and (c) a failure to generate and tansfer a. propriate
technologies for the rainfed and tropical regions of the country. While strong policy and institutoa
reforms under the last two governments (1982-88; 1989-present) have Improved the Incentives (see
paras. 1.6-1.13), agricultural performance is still well below potential.
1.2    Value-added of Mexican agriculture in 1992 was 7.3% of GDP, or approximaty US$18.0
billion. Annual and perennial crops furnish 60-65% of the value of agricult   production; livestock
30%; and forestry and fishing the remainder. "Basic crops"-maize, beans, wheat, rice, and
sorghum-occupy on average about 11.5 million ha of the roughly 16 milion ha under annual crops.
The sector employs 23% of the labor force. Mexico's poor, and especially the extremely poor, are
disproportionally rural.
1.3 Mexican agriculture has a complex production pattern, with variations corresponding to
climate, irrigation. and farm type. The most productive farms are typically larger, mechanized and
irrigated, and use modem production techniques. The less productive farms are smaller, use more
labor, are generally rainfed, and have lagged in the adoption of modem production and management
methods.
1.4 The rapid growth in Mexican agriculture before 1964 was mualnly due to an expansion of the
area under irrigation. WViile irrigated crops now utilize only about one-third of cultivated land, they
account for more than half of all agricultural output by value. However, when irrigation costs rose In
real terms and the annual rate of expansion of irrigated land fell, overall growt suffered. Irrigated
land increased by 194,000 ha annually from 1950 to 1966, and by 126,000 ha annually from 1967 to
1985, but by less than 30,000 ha annually from 1986 to 1991. The overall slower rate of agricultua
grwth also stemmed from slower expansion of the cropped area in Mexico, as the rate of area
expansion fell from 2.8% in 1950-65 to 0.3% in 1966-87.
1.5 The recent pattern of weak expansion of Mexican agriculture poses difficult technological
challenges. As the scope for further expanding cropped area is very limited, Mexico's agricutural
growth strategy will need to rely more on efflciency of resource use, crop diversification, and yield-
Increasing meares, all of which are central objectives of this project.
TophyiclarawfthT Irrigon facvtn abouta5.2 mUlionha; ducto double-cropping,*ou6 mMiu aofiniad
CIO" are acfly harW.



A. Policy Context
1.6 Beginning in the late 1950s, Mexican governments intervened strongly in agriculture with
direct and indirect measures. Import controls, guaranteed producer prices, official production targets,
irrigation investments, directed credit, subsidized inputs, and the establishment of marketiiag and input
supply parastatals were common policy instruments for many years. A public company, CONASUPO
(National Food Supplies Company), owned a wide distribution network, ncluding milk processing
Wants, warehouses, urban supermarkets, and rural stores. The Government supported parastatals,
including 50 sugar mills, invested in irrigation and other infrastructure, limited land transactions
(especially on communally owned eJ1  land), mandated production taigets for growers, marketed
crops, and subsidized fertilizers, farm credit and crop insurance. While the net effects of these
policies varied among products and regions, overall they distorted market signals and inhibited private
agricultural investment for decades.
1.7   The Government's irrigation policy was consistent with its previous general economic policy.
It discouraged private participation and investment, and relied heavily on public funds. Irrigation
policy was largely an instrument of agrarian reform and support for the achievement of self-
sufficiency in the production of basic grains. Fiscal incentives were provided by subsidizing inputs-
notably electric power (for pumping), irrigation water, agoehemicals, and seeds-thus distorting
farmers' production decisions and biasing production away from unsupported crops.
1.8   Inappropriate policies ultimately failed to improve growth, rural poverty, and the nutrition of
the poor. Though agriculture grew at about 4.5% from World War 11 to 1970, after 1970, rural
poverty and malntrition remained severe despite the high guaranteed producer prices and food
subsidies. Parastatals incurred both fiscal and economic costs due to market distortions. Official
output targets, intended to guide production on what the Government considered to be the optimal
path of resource allocation, led to inefficient resource use. Restrictive intellectual property laws,
conceived to protect Mexican consumers and to promote domestic industry, hampered technology
generation and transfer. Constitutional barriers to land transactions discouraged investment and
diverted land into sub-optima uses.
1.9   The economic crisis of the 1980s led to drastic changes in agricultural-and inevitably,
irrigation-policy. Both governments after 1982 have sought to change agricultural incentives and to
reform the public sector. Particularly from the late 1980s, government improved agricultural
incentives by sharply depreciating the real exchange rate and improving the sectoral terms of trade.
The Government reformed public agencies and state companies involved in, inter alla, production,
marketing, water, seeds, and agricultura finance. The Government reduced the number of staff in
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH), in essence privatizing many of its services.
Two Bank-funded Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loans (AGSAL I, Loan 2918-ME and the ongoing
AGSAL II, Loan 3357-ME) have supported these changes, as did a Fertilizer Sector Adjustment
operation (Loan 2919-ME). While those reforms are still incomplete and some distortions remain,
the policy changes have improved the climate for agricultual growth.
B. The Transition to a Market Agriculture
1.10  The past two Mexican administrations (de la Madrid, 1982-1988; Salinas de Gortari, 1988-
present) have developed an agricultural strategy to achieve the transition to a market-based
agriculture. The current strategy is to reduce government involvement in the sector, to eliminate
nearly all trade and price protection, to .ut untargeted consumer food subsidies, and to target
spending on public goods and poverty alleviaion. The proposed operation fits into these objectives as
2' RJ: .lemeot of sma_l fime whr the lad user (ojldataaio) has rlghts to uss the land, but not propty rights.



-3-
it targets improvements in the private investments in the subsector and reserves the public good role
for the Government. With support from several Bank sectoral adjustment loans, these two
administrations have opened agriculture to international trade with lower and more transparent
protection or taxation. Specific reforms have been as follows:
1.11 The Government removed guarantee prices for 10 of 12 commodities. It limited protection to
wheat, barley, and oiseeds, and removed taxation on some goods (e.g., cattle exports). It has
announced its intention to eliminate all agricultural protection and to give direct income support to
producers (see para. 1.19), which will be phased out over time.
1.12  The state liquidated many public agricultural enterprises; 17 parastatals were dismantled, 50
govenment sugar mills were privatized, and much of CONASUPO's business was broken up. The
Government has disbanded most agricultural parastatals, eliminated subsidies on fertilizer, pesticides,
crop insurance, credit and machinery, slimmed the agricultural bureaucracy, removed official targets
for crop production, and lifted some restrictions on intellectual property. Many tariff and non-tariff
barriers were reduced or completely eliminated. The sha=e of domestic output covered by import
quotas fell from 100 percent in 1984 to less than 15 percent by 1989; maximum in.port tariffs were
cut from 100 percent to 20 percent with support from Bank Trade Policy loans in FY87 and FY88
(Loans 2745-ME and 2882-ME).
1.13 Subsid;es for fertilizers, pesticides, machinery, and crop insurance have been eliminated; the
subsidies to water fees in IDs and to electricity for agriculture (see para. 2.14) have been dramatically
reduced. Mandatory public crop insurance was stopped in 1990 and the amount of subsidies from the
federal treasury to crop insurance has fallen to almost nothing. Much of the subsidized agricultural
credit was eliminated in 1990, with significant restructuring of the public rural credit portfolio in
1992. The Government has undertaken significant reforms of intellectual property laws affecting
agriculture. A new seed law (1991) allows private plant breeding, unfettered distribution of materials
developed in the public research system, and freer import of commercial cultivars. A new patent law
(1991) permits private ownership of food production technologies, thereby encouraging investment in
their development.
1.14 When public agricultural expenditure was higher in relation to total public spending, much of
it went to salaries rather than to operating costs or initestments. Spending was consequently
ineffective in providing appropriate public policy, information, and regulatory services. The cut in
public agricultural spending during the 1980s made the situation even worse; public research,
extension, and investment services were even less able than previously to assist small farmers. The
Government is now attempting, with support from Bank loans in research and extension (Agricultural
Technology, Loan 3465-ME), and to the irrigation and drainage sector (Irrigation and Drainage
Sector Project (IDSP) (Loan 3419-ME)) to strengthen a limited public good role of these services (and
to re-orient them toward small farmers), and to have them complemented by targeted private services.
1.15 With support from AGSAL I (Loan 2918-ME), the Government increased spending on food
programs targeted to the poor, tightened eligibility of these programs to exclude wealthier consumers,
and began a nrral food program. With support from AGSAL II (Loan 3357-ME), the administration
has implemented successfilly a pilot rural health, and nutrition program and continued tortilla and
milk programs tzrgeted to the urban poor.
1.16  Land Tenure. With regard to land tenure, the Mexican Constitution formerly prevented the
eIWo from participating in the land market (the issue was reviewed in a Bank review of land reform;
Report 8310-ME of March 30, 1990). The Government modified the constitution and passed new
legilation in 1992 to allow ejWos to participate in the land markets. The Government is now pushing
an ambitious land titling program that will free t e market for ejido lands and allow their use of land
as loan collateral. It is expected that these changes will direct land to more efficient uses, with a



-4 -
major Impact in the states where this project will be implemented. Major reforms included in the
1992 implementing legislation are: (a) an end to land redistribution; (b) security of tenure;
(c) freedom of land allocation; (d) freedom of ejldos to enter into economic partnerships; and
(e) freedom for ejidos tO change their form of association. It Is expected that these reforms will
sgnificandy improve incentives for private irrigation investment and have positive interactions with
actions to be taken in the proposed operation (see paras. 2.9, 3.78).
1.17  Effects of the Reforms. Macro-economic reforms have been broadly successful. After
negative growth and severe instability in the early 1980s, the country revived economic growth and
cut inflation from more than 100% in 1987 to 12% in 1992. It is generally too soon to judge if these
reforms have helped agriculture. Analysis of experience under the first Agricultural Sectoral
Adjustment Loan indicates that the reforms appear to have had only a limited effect on sectoral
output, and have even been associated with a slowing of net agricultural exports, because private
agricutural investment has remained weak and public investment has fallen. It is expected that
private investment will grow as confidence in the reforms develops, and as incentives to invest
increase with implementation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
1.18   Remalnlng Reforms. The Bank's investment strategy is to promote targeted government
investment toward public goods, to facilitate the transition to a production pattern based on world
prices through such targeted investments, and to assist social investments in the poorest areas. The
Bank has identified major remaining areas for reforn in price and trade policy, and in nataral
resources. These areas are the subject of an active sector dialogue with the Government through
sector work on agricultural policy, natural resources, public expenditure for agriculture and rural
development, and agricultural technology.
1.19 Producar Income Support Program. The Government has announced its decision to move
to world prices by October 1, 1994. This would cause falls in the domestic producer prices of some
major crops-maize, beans, wheat, barley, and sorghum. The Government has recently announced
ntroducing a direct producer income support program (Procampo) to relieve the effects of lower
prices on producers' incomes. Procampo would be neutral-that is, it will not subsidize individual
crops because It will not be linked to the quantities produced. The removal of subsidies to individual
crops, as part of Procampo, is expected to improve allocative efficiency in the sector by shifting
Icentives away from protected basic grains toward irrigated exportable crops. The proposed
operation includes measures to ameliorate irrigation systems that can produce the latter (see para.
2.13).
C. Adjustment to NAFTA
1.20 Mexico's average annual agricultural imports from the United States were US$2..1 billion in
1989-1991; exports were US$2.5 billion, making the United States by far the largest trading partner
for both imports and exports.y The timing of NAFTA liberalization, given the present structure of
trade, will benefit Mexico more immediately than the United States. As Mexican protection faills,
particularly, more after year six of the agreement, then relative benefits will shift more to the United
States. Relevant NAFrA conditions affecting cereals, sugar, and fruits and vegetables are as follows.
1.21   Cerel. In 1991, maize, sorghum, wheat and rice constituted US$0.8 billion in imports
from the United States; Mexico exported almost no cereals to the United States. Trade barriers hold
Mexican maize, wheat, barley, sorghum prices above US export parity prices and hence imports will
expand, and Mexican producers will lose, from freer trade. Maize, the leading import, would be
3! Madeo's ag _tu  imports fom Cnada In tat perod we US$0.1 bbion and Meican eport were the sam.



protected by a quota for six years and subsequently by a high tariff that falls to zero from the 7th to
the 15th years of the accord. Similar quota-tariff arrangements protect wheat, barley, and sorghum.
1.22   Sugar. The agreement would allow more Mexican sugar into the US market over a 15 year
period, but at a cost of raising the Mexican producer price almost to the (heavily protected) level of
the United States. Expected effects are to expand Mexican sugar production. The Government later
passed the new sugar sector law in the fall of 1993, with the intention of making the sector more
efficient.
1.23 Fruits and Vegetables. NAFTA immediately lifts some US restrictions on Mexican exports,
notably on cucumbers, watermelon, carrots, eggplant, and tomatoes. Expected effects are to raise
Mexicar exports from irrigated areas at the cost of foregone maize production. The shift into high
value crops (fruits and vegetables) will benefit the Mexican agricultural sector in particular and the
economy in general.
H. THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
A. Background
2.1    By several measures, irrigated agriculture is crucial to the sector as a whole. While the value
of agricultural production in Mexico remained almost unchanged during the 1980s, irrigated
agriculture's share of the value of production grew from 45% to 55%, while total cropped area fell
by 18% and the irrigated area remained about constant. In 1991, the per hectare value of production
and yield in irrigated areas were about 175% and 150%, respectively, higher than the value of
production and yields of rainfed areas. Irrigated producdon accounted for about 70% of agricultural
exports. In 1990-1991, the most recent year for which complete production figures are available, the
main irrigated crops were maize (21% of the value of output in domestic producer prices), wheat
(18%), sorghum (13%), beans (6%), safflower (3%), and soya and sugar cane (6% each). The
remaining 27% includes forages, seeds, fruits, and vegetables.
2.2    Expansion of the irrigated area ended with the financial crisis in 1982 and the consequent
sharp reduction in publi. 'nvestment in irrigaton. Public investment in the sector fell from US$3,600
million in 1981 to less than US$230 million in 1990. The economic crisis also affected maintenance
of existing infrastructure. Hence, laek of funds cut the rate of growth of irrigated areas and adversely
affected their productivity by reducing maintenance. The ongoing IDSP, to which the proposed
operation will be complementary, is helping the G,vernment to restore investment levels to about
US$350 million per year. The IDSP is also helpir,g to make IDs self-sufficient in O&M costs, thus
providing funds to revive productivity on existing irrigated lands.
2.3    Expansion of irrigation confronts technical barriers in addition to the financl ones. The
major irrigation works-large and small dams plus major groundwater facilities-have mainly been
developed in the north of Mexico. Surf.ree water is now increasingly scarce in the north because the
most economical storage structures have already been built. rFurther significant expansion of the
irrigated area in northemn Mexico is therefore of doubtfil economic and environmental feasibility.
Moreover, competition for water from urban areas in the arid zones will limit Irrigation development
from both ground and surface sources.
2.4    Much of irrigation in Mexico is gravity-based, with large schemes developed around storage
reservoirs, diversion dams, and conveyartce canals. In these schemes, water conveyance losses are
about 40%, while losses in the minor can3l netwo,rks amount to about 20%. At farm level, losses are
normally between 30% and 5C%. Overall conveyance efficiency is, therefore, between 24% and
34%. By comparison, efficiency ranges from 50% to 60% in California and Arizona, neighboring
states that irrigate a given area with almost half of the water used in Mexico. This difference is due



- 6 -
primarily to improved minor networks used in the US (lined or piped), better on-farm systems
(leveled or pressurized), and better farmers skills. A major focus of the proposed, project, therefore,
is to raise the efficiency of water use on-farm and in the distribution networks given the constraints to
expansion of irrigation and the low efficiency of current use. The proposed project will tackle the
low-efficiency problem by improving the minor irrigation network and on-farm systems, and by
training farmers and WUOs to improve their skills (see paras. 3.15, 3.28, 3.30, and 3.31).
2.5    Groundwater also faces technical problems. Though the national groundwater balance is
positive overall as extraction is only 70% of natural recharge, the balance is negative in many
regions. Much of the renewable volume remains unused in the wetter and less developed areas in the
south; development of irrigated agriculture is not profitable there and the cost of transferring water
from the surplus south to the deficit north is prohibitive. Most water use therefore occurs in arid
areas, where the net recharge is negative and underground storage is consequently endangered. The
aquifers in the north are over-exploited; groundwater levels are falling, in some cases by as much as
1.2 meters per year, and there has already been some sea-water intrusion in the northwest coastal
aquifers. The over-exploitation of groundwater has accelerated water table depletion, resulting in
additional pumping costs and decreased well discharges. The proposed operation does not support
any additional exploitation of groundwater.
2.6    A further technical constraint to efficient irrigation is that most Mexican IDs were designed
and built to serve the old sectoral strategy of producing basic grains. Consequently, until the late
1980s, irrigation systems were primarily designed to serve one grain crop at a time on a rigid
delivery schedule, through gravity applications of large volumes with long irrigation intervals, and
minimal flexibility in delivery schedules. These rigid schemes were not compatible with cropping
patterns for high-value crops (fruits and vegetables), nor for the optimization of grain fields, as both
require more frequent and smaller water applications. The project will improve flexibility in water
delivery through improved sub-project design, completion of unfinished minor distribution networks,
and training of WUOs, farmers, and technical staff in better system operation (see para. 3.7).
2.7    Given funding and technical constraints, the most economic strategy for increasing irrigated
production is to complete and improve existing irrigation systems, not to expand irrigated area or
groundwater exploitation. This strategy therefore seeks gains from improved water management,
increased cropping intensity, higher crop yields, and the conversion to higher-value cropping patterns.
The proposed project incorporates actions consistent with that strategy, including measures to help
raise yields, improve water use efficiency, and promote enterprise diversification (see para. 3.7).
B. Recent Policy Changes in the lrrigation Subsector
2.8    Policy changes in the irrigation subsector have followed the broader changes in economic
policy (see paras. 1.10 to 1.19). The Government's new irrigation policy is to encourage efficient
water use through: (a) reforms in the legal basis of land tenure; (b) reforms in tlhe legal basis of
water rights; (c) a major increase in irrigation water fees to achieve self-sufficiency for O&M and so
transfer of irrigation districts to water users organizations; (d) changes in economic policy to promote
a shift away from basic grains production; and (e) more private sector participation in decisions and
investment (see Policy Letter, Annex 0).
2.9   Incentives for private investment in irrigation were limited historically by legal, regulatory
and administrative restrictions (see para. 1.6). Ihe amendments to Article 27 of the Federal
Constitution created a favorable legal environment for private investment. More specifically, the new
Agrarian and Water Laws of 1992 created a better environment for private investments in agriculture
and scfically in irrigation. The new measures make land tenure more certain, liberalize the
fOnana system, promote more efficient use of infrastructure, establish new marketing and
ditribution schemes for both the domestic and export markets, and strengthen producers'



organizations. In the context of the legal reforms, the proposed project aims to promote new private
investment in the sub-sector through expanding cost-sharing from beneficiaries and improvement in
the regulatory and administrative frameworks (see paras. 3.65 and 3.76). The development of
conditions for tradable water rights and incentives to save water, which are being addressed in the
new Water Law, are expected to promote the more efficient allocation of water as rural and urban
users become more familiar with the new market mechanism.
2.10   Management of IDs, including responsibility for O&M, is being transferred to the users,
helped by the establishment of volumetric water allocation Pnd delivery systems. Payment by
beneficiaries of full water delivery costs, as well as the creation of a market for water, are a
recognition of water's true scarcity value. These changes, which are being assisted under IDSP, will
generate incentives to save water and to invest in water saving technologies.
2.11   With regard to water use and quality, important changes have taken place, among them the
decentralization of ID management into smaller hydraulic units (called 'modules'), and the enabling
of those holding water rights to aede or transfer their titles. Private participation in financing,
building, and operating water infrastructure is also being promoted. IDSP has made progress, as
planned, in transferring management of modules to WUOs, in rehabilitating major canal networks,
and in achieving full O&M cost recovery. Collection of irrigation water fees improved substantially
from 1989 to 1992 (self-sufficiency increased from about 18% (US$20 million/year) to 76% (US$85
million/year) of the O&M costs). In all IDs transferred to WUOs, O&M self-sufficiency is now
100%; the policy goal is to transfer all 77 IDs to WUOs by 1995.
2.12   This sub-sector reform program requires complementary actions to ensure that farmers can
adapt efficiently to a more market-oriented environment. Chief among those actions are completion
or improvement of minor networks within each module and at the farm level, which would be
supported by the proposed operation (see paras. 2.6 and 3.7). Remaining regulatory and
administrative constraints must be lifted, and technical support for IDs, and for the training of
technical advisors and the WUOs, must be established to guide and support the subsector's adjustment
(see 3.76 to 3.79). The technical support to be strengthened under the proposed project would
increase farmers' ability to respond to market signals, and to adopt appropriate technological and
management changes.
2.13   Government policies that encouraged the production of basic grains are being eliminated (see
paras. 1.20-1.23), giving producers better incentives to shift into fruits, vegetables, forages, nuts, and
other high-value crops. To do so, they will require new and improved types of on-farm irrigation
systems, completion of minor networks, and technical assistance, all of which would be provided
under the proposed project.
2.14   A contributing factor in the unsustainable use of groundwater has been low electricity rates.
However, from 1990 to 1992, policy changes required farmers to pay higher rates and therefore to
modify their irrigation systems in order to improve water use efficiency, which helped rationalize
groundwater use as many inefficient pumping systems became uneconomic (see para. 2.5, 4.1(p)).
The Government's power sector target was to set rates at 100% of the long-run marginal cost
(LRMC) of energy by 1997. Consistent with that target, evergy rates rose by 440% in nominal terms
from May 1990 to January 1993, reaching 54% of LRMC. In February 1993, the nominal monthly
increase slowed down to 0.5%, lower than the inflation rate. On October 5, 1993, the 0.5% per
month increase was stopped.y If the monthly increase had been maintained at 3%, by January 1994
tariffl would have been about 74% of LRMC; with a 0.5% monthly increase, by January 1994 tariffs
will be only 55% of the LRMC, or 1 % below the ratio of January 1993. At negotiations this issue
i! With a cuent inflation rave of about 9% and no more increases in the cletical rates, the decision to slp the monthly
increases implies that the fees .uld be reduced by less than 10% per year in relatlon to the LRMC.



- 8-
was discussed with Mexicans and a study was agreed upon to evaluate, inter aia its implications for
gwundwater conservation concerns (see paras. 2.5, 3.14, and 4.1(p)).
C. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Projects
2.15   Lessons learned from previous Bank irrigation projects in Mexico and other countries,
including the ongoing IDSP, are incorporated in project design (see Annex A). The main relevant
lessons are:
(a)   training in modern irrigation methods and technology, as well as in the design and
construction of minor hydraulic structures and networks, is required to implement a
program of change towards efficiency and modernization (see para. 3.15);
(b)    an up-dated manual for design criteria and the design of small hydraulic structures and
networks (for flows below 500 liters per second) is needed (see para. 3.23);
(c)   farmers' participation and involvement from the beginning of subproject formulation
and development requires actions in communication and participation (see paras. 3.18-
3.20);
(d)    monitoring of water use and crop production indicators is strongly needed, Including
of salinity levels, water table movement, irrigation schedules, volumetric water
measurement, and yields (see para. 3.17);
(e)    strengthening in subproject preparation ability is required, from feasibility studies to
construction designs. Close monitoring of preparation activities and technical quality
control is also needed (see paras. 3.14 and 3.25); and
(I)    a key to sustainable irrigation development is significant private (including farmer)
participation in the selection, design and financing of investmnents (para 3.7).
il. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.1    Bank involvement will help to ensure the necessary reorientation of the irrigation subsector
from centralized management toward greater private sector participation and investment, and from
dependence on subsidized inputs and prices toward the use of technologies and crops appropriate to
new market conditions. The project is part of an integrated Bank subsector strategy. It is consistent
with the Bank's strategy of promoting increased private sector participation, targeting public
investments to areas not well served by th£ rivate sector, reinforcing the role of producers' groups
like WUOs, achieving self-sufficiency in C   . costs, and increasing capital cost recovery in
irrigation Investments. The project has alst , clear linkage with the on-going LDSP, complementing
its investments in major infrastructure with minor irrigation networks and on-farm investments. The
IDSP concentrates on major off-farm networks (rehabilitation, modernization and/or completion) and
does not include minor networks and on-farm improvements. Important changes in regulatory and
adminiratve areas, related to the New Water Law (whose regulation has recently been put into
effect), will encourage private investment in the project (see paras. 2.9, and 3.74). Bank involvement
In tdis project will also assist the Government in desirable but difficult policy areas, specifically:
(a) adjusting to the challenges for the ural sector stemming from NAFTA; (b) decentralization and
privatizaon; and (c) improved efficiency in resource use. The proposed project is also a direct
complement to and consolidation of investment and institutional changes taking place under IDSP. It
will directly involve about 20% of the area transferred to users under IDSP; the remaining 80%,



-9-
pending on the results of this project, could be addressed through future government programs which
would benefit from experience gained with this project.
3.2    While the Bank has supported irrigation and drainage project, in Mexico for more than 25
years through 19 Loans, a broad dialogue on the issues related to decentralization and privatization,
transfer of O&M to WUOs, and full O&M cost recovery has only developed since late 1990, in the
context of preparing the IDSP. The approach now advocated by the Bank encourages private sector
participation, efficiency in resource use, and sustainability, and is fully consistent with current
government strategy (see paras. 2.3, 2.4, and 2.8 to 2.14).
3.3   In l ie with government and Bank strategies, and following the agreements under the IDSP,
the proposed project would help reverse traditional policies of heavy government intervention and
financing through grants. It would improve capital cost recovery through: (a) sharing in the cost of
completion or up-grading (off-farm) miner networks (50% of whose cost would be recovered in real
terms through enhanced water rates); and (b) farmers assuming full cost responsibility for on-farm
improvements. Farmers will remain responsible for 100% of O&M costs (paid directly or collected
by WUOs via water rates, as in IDSP).
3.4    Agricultural production strategies in irrigated areas will require adjustments in relation to the
transition to a market agriculture and to NAFTA. The trend in irrigated agriculture will be toward
high-yield intensive field crop production, and for high-value cropping patterns with labor-intensive
characteristics. The technical adaptation of the irrigated areas to this new commercial environment
would be part of the new project. To this end, while not directly financing agricultural research and
extension, the project would stimulate farmers to mobilize existing specialized private services.
3.5    The proposed project is in line with government policies and Bank sector strategies, as
reflected in IDSP, AGSAL I and II, and the Agricultural Technology Project. It also reflects the
results and recommendations of the recent Bank study, "Review of Conditions for Private Investments
in Irrigation' (Report No. 1171-ME, March 22, 1993) in Mexico.
3.6    The Bank sector assistance strategy emphasizes decentralization, poverty alleviation and
efficient productivity enhancement. The IDSP assists the completion of unfinished projects and the
rehabilitation of main networks, as well as the transfer of IDs to WUOs. The Decentralization and
Regional Development Project (Loan 3310-ME) supports small infrastructure and social investments
in poor states. Rainfed areas are assisted by the PRODERrI II Project (Loan 2658-ME). The
Agricultural Marketing Project (Loan 3141-ME) helps create a viable sectoral framework for
agricultural development. Other projects at various stages of preparation continue this focus on
rational and sustainable development of rainfed areas (Rainfed Development), targeted poverty
reduction (Decentralization and Regional Development II) and productivity enhancement
(Aquaculture). In sum, the proposed project fits within the Bank assistance strategy of increasing the
efficiency of the agricultural sector in Mexico through promoting economically and financially both
viable private sector investment, and the overall efficiency of the sector with a limited "public goods'
role for the Government (see para. 1.10).
B. Project Objectives
3.7    The project seeks to make the Mexican irrigation subsector more efficient and less reliant on
government fimds, through shared investment by bendficiaries and the Government. It will improve
the minor hydraulic infrastructure, which will permit water savings and operational flexibility, and so
I/ Although IDSP anticipated 30% capital cost recovezy for new projects, so far no new project is included In its Implenatlon
portfolio. IDSP concntrate, so fir sceafully, i attenton In tsnerrmg ID managenm to WUOs and on O&M om
teovery.



- 10-
support more intensive irrigated cropping, better yields, and diversification toward high-value crops.
These developments will increase the profitability and sustainability of irrigated agriculture, as well as
the potential for exploiting new markets to be developed under NAFrA. Increased private investment
in irrigation will be encouraged by the participation of WUOs and farmers in decision-making about
investments and priorities, under a sound legal, regulatory, and administrative framework.
3.8    The project's main objective is to assist irrigation farmers in transferred IDs complete the
transfer process, consolidate existing irrigation investments through direct user participation in
decision-making and investment, move to diversified agricultural production, and increase their
efficiency in the use of land and water resources. Specific objectives consistent with the sector policy
improvements are to: (a) reduce the loss and waste of irrigation water; (b) promote decentralization
and private investment in irrigation; (c) increase cropping intensities and yields; and (d) increase crop
diversification into higher value crops.
C. Project Description
3.9    The project is targeted to the irrigated areas of arid zones which have been transferred to the
WUOs under the IDSP. It seeks to consolidate the decentralization and privatization of irrigation
management, so promoting private participation in the subsector, target public investments to areas of
public good, and re-enforce the role of producers' groups (WUOs). It will be implemented over a
six-year period and have three components: technological support, communications, and
taning; minor network improvements; and on-farm improvements.
3.10   The components have distinctive geographic coverage and benefits. While the minor network
and on-farm improvement components will be implemented in a "core area" (0.4 million ha), the
technological support, communications, and training component will benefit more than 1.5 million ha
in the 14 selected participating IDs. The selection of the 14 participating I)s was based on the
willingness of the farmers involved to participate In improvements through cost sharing (as evaluated
through a field suvey of farmers in transferred IDs). At negotiations, assurances were obtained on
which IDs will participate in the project. (See para. 4.1(a) and Annex K.)
3.11 Minor network and on-farm improvements would be implemented in the "core area" of
transferred "modules"O' in the 14 selected IDs (see Annex E, Table 1). The modules have been split
into two groups for implementation purposes. Group I (11 modules) is expected to initiate
implementation in 1994; Group II (so far 33 modules) will start implementation in 1995 and later.
The eligibility criteria for a module to participate in the project are that it be: (a) completely
transferred to a WUO; (b) self-sufficient in O&M cost recovery; (c) completely rehabilitated under
IIDSP; and (d) able to demonstrate through a feasibility study that it will be able to repay the
investment, and that the proposed improvements wIll have an ERR of at least 12%. The participating
modules are considered among the best In Mexico in terms of productive potential and the willingness
of the relevant WUOs to improve further productivity. The demonstration effect of this project is
expected to be strong among other modules in the 14 selected IDs and others in the vicinity.
3.12   Detailed description of the following three main project components is provided in the
Annexes D, E, F and G and in the Working Papers. (See Annex 0.)
I "Maod   at te hydraulic unit to which an ID is geographicaily divided for transfer of management to WUOs and
opation putposes. Buch module has a WUO to accomplish the transfer proce. and to manage the O&M functions, including
decisios  te amount nd colection of water fes. The package of physical interventions proposed in a module is caed a
Usp"oJe.t



- 11 -
1. Technical Support, Communication, and Training Component
(US$39.6 million total cost)
3.13   The technical support, communication, and training component aims to promote modem
concepts of irrigation design, professional development, adaptive research, and water user
participation, principally in the participating IDs. It will have six subcomponents as described below.
Details and additional descriptions are provided in Annex D and in Working Paper C-Il.
(a) Feasibility Studies (US$2.9 million)
3.14   The feasibility studies sub-component will support the preparation of feasibility studies for
subprojects (modules). The studies will be used to determine the economic and technical feasibility of
each subproject. They will also serve as a basis for the discussions between CNA and WUOs, with
the aim of reaching an agreement on the scope of the subproject and the definition of mutual
responsibilities. CNA consultants will prepare the studies with support from the staff of CNA
Irrigation and Drainage Engineering Field Offices (OlRyD) In specific areas. The first 10 completed
studies-covering 11 modules-served as a basis of project appraisal. These studies cover about
84,000 ha, or about 21% of the total project area. The remaining selected 33 modules (about
307,300 ha) will be handled in 14 additional feasibility studies, which will be completed no later than
December 31, 1995. (Details are provided in Working Paper C-11, Section 1.) Because the timely
availability of feasibility studies Is critical for project implementation and the agreements with WUOs
will depend upon these studies, at negotiations CNA agreed with the Bank on: (a) standard
agreements for (J) Design Commitments and (ii) Implementation and Cost Recovery to be signed with
IWUOs; and (b) time-tables to complete all feasibility studies (see para. 4.1(c) and Annex L). The
Bank has received draft feasibility studies for the modules above 10,000 ha. After the completion of
each feasibility study, CNA will sign a "Design Commitment" with each WUO in order to begin
construction design (see para. 3.25). CNA would also prepare a study on the basis of TOR
acceptable to the Bank, with respect to the usage and stabilization of the three main Pacific Coast
endangered aquifers (Caborca, Costa de Hermosillo and Santo Domingo). Such study would focus
on: (a) the impact of Government policies during the period 1988-1994 with respect to the farm
production costs, including particularly, electricity tariffs and fuel prices, on sustainable ground water
utilization in the area of the three mentioned aquifers; and (b) other related environmental issues,
including the contamination of such aquifers by intrusion of sea water and the draw-down of aquifer
levels. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from CNA to carry out such study (paras. 2.14 and
4.1(p)). The results of the study would be important in the consideration of possible Bank financing
of future groundwater and aquifer stabilization activities. Bank financing of any such activities would
be based on specific feasibility studies and agreements on aquifer stabilization and tariff policies, and
would be limited to a maximum of three aquifers.
(b) Traing and Professional Development (US$ 5.4 million)
3.15 This sub-component aims to develop the professional skills of those involved in implementing
the project. It will create a critical mass of well-educated professionals at various levels and
institutions, who would share a common understanding of, and jointly contribute to the modernization
of the irrigation sector. Participants in the training program will include: (a) engineers and technical
staff of OIRyD, the concerned private sector, and banks; (b) managers and technical staff of WUOs;
and (c) farmers. (Details of the training program are in Annex D.) The overall design and
coordination of the training and professional development program is under the responsibility of the
Mexican Institute of Water Technology (IMTA), which will contract for the services of established
training Institutions and universities in Mexico. A panel of experts has been constituted by IMTA to
develop the content and training materials of the different courses. This work is mostly done and is
expected to be totally completed before loan effectiveness. (See Working Paper C-II.)



- 12 -
(c) Field Monitoring and Soil Surveys (US$12.8 million)
3.16 The OIRyD will have crucial functions in the implementation of the project. OQRyD will be
involved in data collection, field monitoring, implementation of the feasibility studies, and in detailed
des.gn; they will conduct the negotiations with WUOs concerning project implementation and capital
cost: repayment; and they will be responsible for monitoring the technical and agronomic performance
of the IDs in general, and OF the participating modules in particular. The physical and professional
capacity )f the QIRyD needs upgrading in order to meet the requirements of the task since OIRyD
offices have suffered from under-funding and under-staffing since the budget crisis of the early 1980s
(paras. 1.9 and 2.2). The necessary up-grading and strengthening will be achieved through staff
training (see para. 3.15) and through material and financial support for: incremental operational
costs; laboratory and electronic equipment, and vehicles; field monitoring; and soil surveys. In
addition, CNA will commit sufficient budget tc, fulfill the funding gaps. The main activities and costs
involved are: (a) procurement of laboratory and electronic equipment (US$2.2 million); (b) field
monitoring activities (US$6.4 million); (c) soil surveys in the "core area" (US$0.8 million); and
(d) incremenal operational costs to support OlRyD field activities (US$3.6 million). Details of these
items are presented in Annex D and in Working Paper C-II, Section 2, Table 6.
3.17 Detailed and real-time field monitoring activities (item (b) in para. 3.16) are required to
establish the effects of project interventions and to ascertain the long-term sustainability of the IDs.
The following parameters will be monitored: (a) operation of the irrigation system and water use
efficiency. The quality of the irrigation service in terms of reliability, equity and timeliness will be
established in sample areas. Water losses in the distribution systems will be measured, and on-farm
water applications will be compared with crop water requirements. Operational and technical factors
that affect the performance of the systems will be identified; (b) salinity. The rise in the water table
and the occurrence of secondary salinity represents an increasing and serious threat to many IDs,
especially to those located on coastal plains. It is therefore vital that salinity be continuously
monitored. Since this monitoring has long been neglected and insufficient relevant data exist, special
activities are envisaged to establish the extent of soil salinity on a regional scale; (c) quality of
irrigation water and water table monitoring. Many aquifers are overexploited and water quality is
decreasing. Continuous monitoring of both these features is required to identify critical areas so that
mitigating actions can be initiated; and (d) productivity of irrigation. Agronomic data on the yield
of different crops, relative water use efficiency, and productivity will be collected, processed and
analyzed. Recommendations for improved agricultural practices will be issued through the OIRyD
Communication Units. When necessary and cost effective, field monitoring will be supported by
airborne scanning with high resolution video cameras and computerized interpretation using GIS
software. Details of the monitoring activities are presented in Annex D and Working Paper C-II,
Section 4, Table 4.
(d) Conununication and Partcipation (US$3.7 million)
3.18 The transfer of IDs to WUO control has profoundly changed the relationship between CNA
and farmers. In transferred IDs, CNA district offices provide services to WUOs, rather than manage
the irrigation system. These services need to include: providing information on institutional and
organizational issues, and on agricultural markets, market regulations, and finance; promoting
technological change; offering specific technical advice concerning main crops and water management
at farm level; establishing a dialogue between the main system operator and WUOs; and solving
conflicts in project implementation decisions among users.
3.19 The new functions require the establishment of Communication Units in the OIRyD district
offices. The project will therefore provide training, material, and support through: (a) establishment
of co ication units in 17 OIRyD district offices to satisfy the information needs of farmers and
WUOs on a regular basis; (b) training of OIRyD Communication Units and WUOs. A total of 660



- 13 -
specialists, technicians and managers will receive training in the use of information technology.
Thirty specialists will receive training in consensus-building and conflict resolution; (c) establishment
of four Regional Information Offices which will operate data banks and provide information for
OIRyDs, WUOs, producers, consultants, and private flmns in irrigation, irrigated agriculture,
marketing, and farm management; and (d) dissemination of specific information on farm management,
irrigation, and marketing through leaflets, bulletins, videos and radio.
3.20  IMTA's existing Communication Unit will be responsible for the overall planning and
coordination of the program. Details of the communication technology to be used will depend on the
nature of the information provided; a mix of general written material, specifically-generated material,
and audio-visual media will be used. IMTA will be supported by a team of qualified international
experts (already working in Mexico under the IDSP) provided through FAO. The FAO experts will:
assist in the formulation of communication concepts and the methodology; train national specialists in
communication technology; and develop and implement a monitoring and evaluation system for the
component. The total cost of the sub-component is estimated at US$3.8 million, including about
US$1.0 for FAO services. Details are provided in Annex D and Working Paper C-Il, Section 5.
(e) Adaptive Research (US$10.2 million)
3.21   The adaptive research program will develop and test: (a) low-cost solutions for the
improvement of minor distribution systems; (b) the manufacture of low cost polyethylene pipes using
partially recycled material for improved surface and pressurized irrigation; (c) selection criteria for
gravity and pressurized irrigation methods; (d) cost-effective methods to prevent salinity and water-
logging; and (e) methods for the reclamation of saline soil or its alternative land use.
3.22   The adaptive research program will be coordinated by IMTA but implementea .n cooperation
with other Mexican research institutions such as INIFAP, as well as FIRA (demonstration uiits) and
relevant universities. It is estimated that actual implementation of the adaptive research program will
be completed in three years, but experimentation and evaluation will continue to the end of the project
period. Details of the research project may be found in Annex D and Working Paper C-II, Se. !on 6.
(f) Technical Assistance (US$4.6 million)
3.23   Technical assistance from international and national consultants and institutions whose TORs
were discussed at appraisal will be required for: (a) finalizing the design manual for minor irrigation
systems; (b) reviewing the design of minor irrigation network and on-farm improvements;
(c) operational support to WUOs; (d) installing and training CNA staff for the airborne integrated
OPS-GIS survey-interpretation system that will be established in CNA head offices; and
(e) establishment of software smart system for 11 crop production systems through neurocomputer
techniques in the 14 participating IDs (see para. 3.44). Further details are presented in Annex D, and
Working Paper C-II, Section 7. A design manual for minor systems and small-hydraulic structures
(TOR discussed at appraisal) will replace existing outdated manuals. An outline of the terms of
reference for developing this manual is presented in Working Paper C-VIIJ. At niegotiations,
assurances were obtained that CNA will prepare the manual satisfactory to the Bank and make it
available to tfie users (CNA staff, WUOs, OIRyD, and consultants) no later than January 1, 1995 (see
para. 4.1(f)), with the preparation of a satisfactory draft being a condition of Loan effectiveness (see
para. 4.2(g)); the draft will be used for design in an iterative process until the final version of the
manual is available.
2. Minor Network Improvements Component (US$259.5 million)
3.24 The minor network improvements component will include actions in the participating modules
(subprojects) covering the total "core area." The actions to be implemented in this component will be



- 14 -
developed on a sequence initiated under the feasibility studies (for each of the modules) followed by a
Design Commitment Agreement signed between CNA and each WUO, the designs (for each module),
and a Implementation and Cost Recovery Agreement between CNA and WUOs. (See paras. 3.46,
3.80(b), and 4.1(c).) Actions under this component, which will vary according to the characteristics
of the different modules, are described below.
(a) field Surveys, Engineering Services, Designs, and
Construction Supervision (US$19.5 million)
3.25 This sub-component will be implemented by CNA and aims to help WUOs implement
irrigation network construction. It will include: topographical surveys, plotting and locations of
particular work, drilling and boring pits, and field inspection of construction materials. CNA will
begin the construction designs of each participating WUO after the signature of the respective "Design
Commitment Agreement' (see paras. 3.14 and 3.79, 4.2(d)). CNA will prepare the construction
designs, either using its own technical capacity or by contracting with consulting engineers. CNA
technical manuals and TOR discussed with the Bank at appraisal (Project Working Papers C-VIII and
D-X) wIll be used as general design guidelines. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
construction designs will follow these TORs. (See para. 4.1(b).) Each participating ID will have a
CNA-staffed or contracted supervision team to monitor construction schedules, follow-up the proper
use of construction machinery and materials, and to ensure quality control. As a condition of
effectiveness, CNA will present to the Bank the construction designs for the first group of 10 modules
to be implemented in 1994 (see para. 4.2(d) and Annex L, Table L-1). After completion of the
construction designs, each WUO will sign with CNA the Implementation and Cost Recovery
Agreement that will be the instrument to initiate procurem-it of machinery and construction materials
(see paras. 3.46, 3.79, 4.2(d), 4.1(1), 4.1(m), and 4.3(a) and (b)). In order to keep within project
implementation schedules (procurement of machinery and construction material, and civil works), all
participating WUOs will have to sign an Implementation and Cost Recovery Agreement before June
1996 (see paras. 3.42, 3.46 and 4.1 (m)).
(b) Machinery for Construction and Maintenance (US$66.1 million)
3.26  The project will provide the machinery and equipment necessary to implement all minor
network and some on-farm works. The machinery will be selected, allocated, pooled and distributed
to the participating modules (WUOs) according to the specific requirements identified in the feasibility
studies; confirmed in the designs, and agreed between CNA and each WUO in the formal
Implementation and Cost Recovery Agreement (see Annex 7 and Appendix 2, Working Paper D-II).
CNA will implement the procurement of equipment in large packages through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). (See para. 3.43.) The packages will be carefully planned and kept in
line with actual implementation. These machines will, after the signature of the Implementation and
Cost Recovery Agreement, become the property of WUOs, and .vill be used and maintained by them.
During preparation and at appraisal, various methods of executing minor civil works under the project
were evaluated and it was agreed that the most efficient would be to use the existing WUO equipment
complemented by some procured under the project. IDSP experience has demonstrated that WUOs
operate construction and maintenance equipment efficiently and maintain it well. Major equipment
will include: (a) construction machinery and equipment, including 606 units such as crawler
bulldozers, front loaders, excavators, motorgraders, scrapers, pushers, dump trucks, canal lining
machines, and drainage pipe laying machines, as well as cement mixers, wheeled water tanks, and
diesel-powered pumps; (b) land levelling equipment for about 120,000 ha, including tractors, towed
and self-propelled scrapers, and land planes; (c) maintenance machinery to clean canals and drains;
and (d) laser equipment for land levelling and excavating canals and drains. Annex F details the
specific items as well as their reference quantities (to be confirmed after construction designs), cost
estim, and destinations. After completion of the concerned works, the construction machinery and
land leveling equipment will still have left some 30% to 40% of its useful life; since all equipment



- 15 -
that would be used for project implementation can also be used for maintenance, it will remain in the
concerned module once construction is complete.
(c) Construction Materials (US$73.4 million)
3.27   Construction materials will be procured, pooled, allocated and transferred to the participating
modules (WUOs) according to the requiremenits of the designs and confirmation through the
Implementation and Cost Recovery Agreements signed between CNA and each WUO. They would
include major items of construction material and hydraulic equipment needed for the minor irrigation
distribution networks, including cement, steel rods, lumber, pipes, valves, gates, hydraulic flow
control modules, volumetric measurement gauges, measurement gauges, and control structures. CNA
will procure this material through major packages, some of which will group the procurement needs
of several subprojects on the basis of delivery date requirements and geographic locations;
procurement will follow under ICB procedures (see para. 3.43), and will be planned and kept in line
with actual implementation and use to avoid overstocking. inventory control monitoring will also be
provided (see para. 3.29). Storage of construction materials primarily will be 'in factory", and
distribution will be from CNA to WUOs, monitored by the inventory control firm. As a general
guide, Working Paper C-V is a reference to quantities and unit prices.
(d) Minor Network Civil Works (US$98.2 million)
3.28 This sub-component, not financed by the Bank, will be implemented by WUOs under the
supervision of CNA (para. 3.25). It will include all the works necessary for completing the minor
network irrigation infrastructure. Activities under this subcomponent would be part of WUOs'
contribution to off-farm development works. Participating WUOs have their own engineers and
maintenance/construction teams organized under the transfer process, and have demonstrated their
capacity to execute such works under force account and through small contractors. Main construction
items consist of: lining of 4,800 km of sub-laterals; installation of 400 km of low pressure pipes and
fittings; construction and installation of about 16,100 small control structures, gates, and measuring
devices; construction of 180 km of collector drains and 2,000 km of minor open drains; and
rehabilitation of 600 km of access roads. These small construction activities can be carried out
effectively by the WUOs, which will perform the tasks mostly under force account complemented by
small local contractors. Such a method of implementation for small works has been demonstrated to
be efficient and cost effective in IDSP. For a typical subproject of about 5,000 ha, the cost of the
construction services would be below US$1.0 million. Annex E gives details of quantities, cost
estimatcs, and the distribution of minor network civil works.
(e) Inventory Control (US$2.4 million)
3.29   CNA will appoint a specialized company, satisfactory to the Bank, to undertake inventory
control of construction materials, equipment, and machinery procured under the project and ultimately
transferred to WUOs. The company will monitor procurement, contracting, and inventory control at
plant (factory), delivery, and reception. At least two comprehensive inventory control reports will be
prepared each year (in February and August, for the July-December and January-June periods,
respectively), which will be reviewed during Bank's supervision missions; corrective actions, if any,
would be taken through adjustments on the following procurerilent packages approved by the Bank.
Award of the inventory control contract with a specialized firm, satisfiactory to the Bank, is a
condition of Loan Effectiveness (see para. 4.2(c)). Bank supervision mission will follow-up on the
use of these materials and machinery both directly and through the CNA supervision teams stationed
in each participating ID (see para. 3.25).



-16-
3. On-fann Improvements Component (US$269.6 million)
3.30   The on-farm improvements component will be financed by the benefitting farmers, typically
with their own funds or borrowings from private banks (except for construction materials). Typical
on-farm investment work would include: lining or piping internal farm ditches; installing sprinkler,
drip, and micro-sprinkler irrigation systems; land levelling; installing gated pipes; introducing small
measurement and control structures; improving farm drainage; and electrification of pumps. Farmers
will be entirely responsible for implementing their on-farm projects, including design, finance,
procurement, and construction. Arrangements between individual farmers and WUOs to obtain
economies of scale and to use construction machinery owned by the WUOs would be encouraged.
CNA's role in this component would be limited to technological assistance and the delivery of
construction material (such as portland cement, steel rods, PVC pipes, valves, gates, and
measurement devices) upon request from WUOs, as it will procure required construction materials
following farmer/WUO agreements and requests for reasons of compatibility and economies of scale.
Cost recovery for construction material will be 100%, through water fees. The remainder of the
component will be financed by farmers in cash and kind, and by credit through loans from first-tier
banks to be rediscounted under the national rural credit system.
3.31   Estimated component targets are: 6,000 km of lining of farm ditches; 800 km of piped farm
ditches; installation of 22,500 ha of sprinkler, 16,000 ha of drip, and 5,500 ha of micro-sprinkler
irrigation systems; 120,000 ha of land levelling; installation of 15,000 ha with gated pipes;
implementation of about 20,000 ha of on-farm drainage; installation of a considerable number of
measuring and control structures; and electrification for about 250 pumps for pressurized irrigation.
This component would include items needed for ditch lining, low-pressure pipe systems, and concrete
pipes for subsurface drainage. Major construction items include: cement, steel rods of different
sections, and gravel and sand. Tables ' and 2 in Working Paper C-V show details of quantities and
costs.
3.32   Credit requirements to meet anticipated farmer requests to finance on-farm investments under
this component would amount to US$180 million. Repayment of this credit would be the farmers'
responsibility. However, to ensure repayments, the WUOs (which are responsible for water fees
collection) would participate in the credit lending contracts in order to facilitate collateral provision
(through water rights) and thus collection of loan repayments, and would commit themselves to
suspend water delivery to defaulting farmers. In lending to on-farm irrigation investments for small
and medium size farmers, private banks are already using this arrangement effectively with the WUOs
in some of the participating IDs. For the purpose of financing long-term investments, the
Government has agreed that the loan conditions approved in September 1992 under the "Program for
financial support of forestry and other projects (ike irrigation infrastructure) with long maturation
periods" would be applicable. At negotiations, the Government conflrmed that the credit facilities for
financing the on-farm improvements will be provided on the same basis as financing for forestry
activities or other projects with long maturation periods (see paras. 3.66 and 4.1(o)). The financial
resources required by the project for credit during the first year of execution would represent an
incremental demand equivalent to less than 1% of all FIRA-supported loans granted by the banking
system in 1993, and an incremental demand of barely 4% in 1997. (See Working Paper C-VII, Table
2.) This provision creates better conditions for private banks to lend but does not ensure access to
fnancing. The Mexican Association of Private Banks stated that subproject evaluation will be the
main criteria for lending; the feasibility studies (which cover also the on-farm component) are,
indeed, a good tool for this issue.



- 17 -
D. Project Costs and Financing
1. Costs
3.33   Total project costs Including contingencies and taxes are estimated at about US$568.8 million
equivalent, distributed as follows (Table l):
Table 1. Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
(USS million)
Project Components                      LocaP         Foreign           Totaib
A. Tecnial Support, Communications and                25.3            12.1            37.4
Training
- Feasibility Studies                           2.1            0.8             2.8
- Traning Program                               1.8            3.2             5.0
- Communications                                1.4            2.1             3.5
- Field Monitoring and Soil Surveys            10.6            1.3            11.9
- Consultants and External Technical            1.6            2.8             4.5
Assistance
- Adaptive Research                             7.7            1.9             9.6
B. Minor Network Improvements                        142.1            83.2           225.3
- Construction Matrias and Equipment          28.5            34.2            62.8
- Machinery                                     9.9           44.5            54.4
- Surveys, Engineerng Services and Designs     13.7            3.9            17.6
- Civil Works                                  88.3                           88.3
- Inventory Control                             1.6            0.6             2.2
C. On-farm Improvements                               171.4           67.6           238.9
- Constrution Materials                        17.0           20.4            37.3
- On-farm Works                               107.2             -            107.2
- Pressurized Equipmaet                       47.2            47.2            94.4
I-tal Baseine Costs                                  338.7           162.9           501.6
Physical Contingencies                                  5.0           10.5            15.6
Price Contingencies                                   36.6            15.0            51.6
Total Project Costs                                   380.3          188.5           S68.8
Fmancing Plan                                          Local         Foreign          Total
IBRD                                                  66.0           134.0           200.0
Federal Government                                    136.9            0.4           137.2
Rural Credit Rediscount                               111.5           34.6           146.2
Private Sector (Farmers and Priate Baniks)            65.9            19.5            25.4
otal                                                 380.3           188.5           568.8
.1 Including duties and taxes of USS20.6 million and recurrent cost of US$15.8 million.
k/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
(a)    Technological support, communications and training (US$39.6 million including
contingencies, or 7% of total cost) will be financed primarily by government grants,
due to their characteristics as public goods or externalities. Incremental recurrent



- 18 -
costs (not financed by the Bank) are included for a small portion of the costs related
to new hired personnel, salaries for OIRYD researchers, and other O&M expenses;
(b)    Minor network improvement (US$259.5 million or 46%), will be financed through a
combination of Bank and government funds channelled through NAFIN and CNA.
These improvements are primarily public works and CNA will recover up to 50% of
these investment costs in real terms through water fees under the conditions stipulated
in paragraph 3.65. The component costs to be partly funded by the proposed Loan
include construction materials for improvement/modernization of minor network
related to irrigation, drainage, electricity distribution, and rural roads; and the
purchase of earth moving and ditching machinery and electrical equipment. The
remaining costs related to construction services would be financed by government
funds channeled through NAFIN and CNA; and
(c)    On-farm Investments (US$269.6 million or 47%). The construction materials
(US$39.7 million) to be used in lining and piping of on-farm distribution networks
would be supplied and financed through Bank funds, and would be subject to 100%
capital cost recovery. The remaining component investment costs (US$225.6
million), including the construction services for the lining and piping of on-farm
networks and pressurized irrigation equipment, will be totally implemented and
financed by the private sector (beneficiary farmers) through labor, savings, and credit
borrowed from private banks and rediscounted under the national rural credit
rediscount system.
3.34   CNA has provided feasibility studies (which include environmental steps as needed, derived
from a standard checklist of environmental concerns) for the first 10 subprojects to be implemented in
1994 (covering about 21% of the total project area). Detailed design studies of these 10 subprojects
%ill be completed before Loan effectiveness (see para. 4.1(c)). The average cost per hectare of the
off-farm works is about US$653, and of on-farm works and investments, US$677.
3.35   Baseline costs are estimated at US$501.6 million and physical contingencies at
US$15.5 million or 3.0% of total baseline project costs (15% for machinery, 8% for field surveys
and topography, 7% for construction materials, and 0% each for equipment, technical assistance,
consultants, training and studies, and recurrent costs). Price contingencies between negotiations and
project completion were estimated at US$51.6 million equivalent, or 10% of project baseline costs
plus physical contingencies. Annual price increases were applied to local and foreign costs in all
categories In US dollar terms at a rate of 2.8%. Foreign and local price contingencies were
expressed in US dollar equivalents, assuming purchasing power parity during the seven-year
disbursement period. Physical and price contingencies were estimated at 14% of the baseline costs.
2. Financing
3.36 'he proposed Bank loan of US$200 million would finance about 35% of total costs, including
90% for office and laboratory equipment, construction materials and machinery; and 100% for technical
assistance and *tudies, training and subproject feasibility studies, all net of taxes (Tables 2 and 4). The
loaw will be made to NAFIN, which will sign an agreement with the Government for the transfer of the
loan proceeds to the executing agency (CNA) as a condition of Loan effectiveness (see para. 4.2(b)).
The private sector is expected to provide US$85.4 million (about 15% of total cost), of which US$46.3
mllion (8%) will be from the farmers' contribution in .ash and kind and US$39.1 million (7%) in loans
from the private banks. The balance of US$283.4 million (50% of costs not covered by the Loan and
private financing) will be financed by a combination of government budgetary contributions through
CNA (JS$137.2 million) (24.1%), and second-tier bank rediscounts for rural credit (US$146.2 million)



- 19 -
(25.7%). Government support for the resource requirements of the project will be indicated in the
Policy Letter (Annex N).
3.37   Foreign exchange accounts for 33% of the costs of the project. The Bank will cover an amount
equivalent io the total amount of foreign exchange costs (US$188.5 million) plus 3% of the local costs
(excluding taxes), bringing Bank participation in aggregate up to 35% of total project costs (Annex B,
Table 1). Considering the priority attached to this operation by SARH and CNA, the need to ensure a
meaningful basis for dialogue and agreement between WUOs and the Government on the irrigation
strategy, the foreseen level of cost sharing by the private sector, and the limited budgetary resources
being allocated to irrigated agriculture, the proposed level of aggregate financing and the financing of
local costs are appropriate. Actual levels of Bank local cost financing will depend primarily in the
results of bids, whose procurement will be about 87 % under ICB. No incremental recurrent costs will
be financed by the Bank.
Table 2. Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Banking     Govt.
Project Component                       Total             System       of      Farmers
cost   JIRD   Rediscunt   Mexiwo         Al
A. Technica Support, Commun
nd Training
- Feasibiliy Studies                     2.9    2.7          -         0.2         -
- Ttaining                               5.4    4.9          -         0.5         -
- Adaptive Resarch                      10.2    2.0          1.8       2.1        4.2
- Communications                         3.7    2.7          -         1.0         -
- Field Monitoring and Soil Surveys     12.8    1.8          -        11.0
- Consultants and Technical Assistance   4.6    4.2          -         0.4
Subtoal                         39.6   18.2          1.8       15.4        4.2
D. Minor Network Improvements
- Coan. utin Mateals and Equipments     73.4   66.1          -         7.3
- Machinety                             66.1   59.5          -         6.6         -
- Surveys, Engineering Sevices and      19.5   14.3          -         5.1        -
Designs
- Civil Works                           98.2     -           -        98.2        -
- Inventory Control and Auditing         2.4    2.2          -         0.2        -
Subtol                         259.5  142.1           -       117.5        -
C. On-Farm Improvements
- Construction Materias                 44.1   39.7          -         4.4
- On-farm Civil Works h/               120.1     -          76.9       -         43.2
- Irigation Equipment hI               105.4     -          67.5       -         38.0
Subtotl                         269.6   39.7        144.3       4A        81.2
Total Project CosLi                            568.7  200.0        146.1     137.2       85.4
/ Farmer cash and kInd (56%) and private bank loans (44%).
k/ Inchdes coash and kdnd from farmers' savings (20%), private banks (16%) and FIRA rediscount (64%).
3.38 The proposed Loan will be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace period, and will
bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. Eligible expenditures incurred after the start of the



-20 -
appraisal mission (June 21, 1993) and procured under the Bank's guidelines will qualify for retroactive
Ana-cing up to a maximum of US$20.0 million equivalent (10% of the loan amount), to permit CNA to
begin priority activities (such as completion of feasibility studies, 'eld surveys, construction designs,
training, engineering services, and the first batch of construction materials and machinery requirAd for
smooth project start-up (see para. 3.46)).
E. Project Organization and Management
1. Implementing Agencies
3.39 NAFIN will be the Borrower and will channel project funds from the Bank and government
sources. CNA will be the implementing agency for the project as a whole, working closely with the
private sector represented by WUOs. IMTA, under CNA supervision, will manage the adaptive
research, communications, and training sub-components. Technology transfer activities will be
implemented collaboratively among 1MTA and CNA, through OIRYD, IDs, and WUOs. Activities
related to minor networks will be implemented by CNA together with WUOs: CNA will provide
construction materials, machinery and engineering services, and WUOs will execute the construction
activities mostly under force account. On-farm activities will be executed by individual farmers with
support from WUOs. Taking into account that IMTA is the technological and research branch of CNA
and that the OlRyD are part of IDs, which are directly subordinated to CNA, these implementing
agencies will be coordinated by CNA under the Subdirectorate General for Agricultural Infrastructure.
Contractua agreements will be necessary between CNA (Government) and WUOs (private sector).
Satisfactory draft standard agreements between CNA and WUOs for Design Commitment and
Implementation and Cost Recovery were agreed at negotiations and will be signed between CNA and the
WUOs before implementation of each module. (See para. 4.1(1).) As a condition of Loan Effectiveness,
CNA and IMTA will sign an instruction letter for implementation by IMTA of its parts under the
project. (See para. 4.2(t).)
3.40 A small Project Unit (PU) was established within CNA in July, 1993 to coordinate between the
branches of CNA and other involved agencies, and to manage reporting, annual budget plans,
supervision of implementation activities, including all procurement of goods and services, auditing,
consultant contracting, and Bank-related monitoring and reporting requirements (see para. 4.2(a)). The
PUr will have a manager, a procurement agent, an accountant, three technical assistants, and necessary
support staff. The first manager of the PU was appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. At negotiations, the Government agreed to: (a) maintain within the CNA an organizational
structure, functions, and adequate staff, all satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation and
supervision of the project; (b) promptly inform the Bank of any proposed change in organizational
structure or functions; and (c) maintain the PU with appropriate functions, structure, and staff,
satisfictory to the Bank (see para. 4.1(e)).
3.41 The participating WUOs will represent the private sector, which is the main partner in the
implementation of the proposed project. Ihey will implement the two main investment components (on-
farm and minor network improvements). (See Annex K.)
2. Procurement
3.42 The Bank will help finance contracts related to the implementation of the selected subprojects
provided that: adequate counterpart funds are allocated every year to the project; the WUOs and CNA
have signed the contractul agreements for design, and implementation and cost recovery; and that the
tendeting is according to Bank procedures and agreed upon de.ign standards. CNA would be directly
responsible for all the procurement of .tems to be financed by he Bank. Standard Bank bidding



- 21 -
documents will be used for the procurement of goods under ICB; for LCB, standard bidding documents
will be used. Works. Since none of the hundreds of small contracts for civil works is expected to
exceed US$1.5 million, and taking into account the experience of IDSP, it is not practical that the Bank
finance these dispersed small contracts, and therefore no Bank financing will apply to civil works
category. Most of the civil works will be carried out by WUOs under their own responsibility, through
force account and/or subcontracting under CNA supervision. The on-farm civil works will be financed
by each farmer and executed under his own responsibility. The only works category to be financed by
the Bank would be the field surveys, engineering services, drilling, and topographic services. Here, the
Bank would finance: local shopping for contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent;
limited competitive bidding (shopping through invitation of registered contractors according to Mexican
law with at least three proposals) for contracts expected to cost less than US$500,M00 equivalent; and
LCB for contracts above US$500,000, but less than US$5 million, all of which would have to be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Category                             ICB 3t    LCB aJ   Shopping hi   Other AI   NBF £1    Total
Works
A. Off-farm Civil Works                 -          -           -                   98.2      98.2
B. On-farm Civil Works4/                -          -          -            -       231.6     231.6
C. Field Surveys, Engineering Services,           1.6         9.7                             11.3
Drilling and Topographic Services             (1.5)       (8.8)                           (10.3)
Goods
D. Construction Materials             94.0       23.5          -           -         -       117.5
(84.6)    (21.2)                                      (107.8)
E. Constrution Machinery and          66.1         -           -           -         -       66.1
Equipment                          (59.5)                                                 (59.5)
F. Laboratory and Electronic           1.3        0.5         0.5          -         -        2.3
Equipment                           (1.2)     (0.5)       (0.4)                            (2.1)
G. Vehicles                             -                                  *        0.7       0.7
Services and Cosultacy
H. Supervision of Works                 -          -           --.5
(5.0)      -        (5.0)
l. Consulting, Training,                -          -                      19.0      0.8      19.8
Communications and                                                   (17.3)      -       (17.3)
Technical Assistance
J. Recurrent Costs                      -          -           -                    15.8      15.8
Total                             161.4      25.6        10.2        24.5      347.1     568.8
(145.3)    (23.2)      (9.2)       (22.3)              (200.0)
N.B. Figures in parenthesis ar amounts, including contingencies expected to be financod by the Bank.
lDi Bank financing excludes taes.
k/ Shopping will includo intnational and local (with at least threo ptice quotations).
I/ Non-Bank financing. (Includes rural credit, CNA incremental recurrent costs, private financing, force account, taxes and
recurrent costs.)
d/ includes pressurized irigation equipment.



- 22 -
3.43   Goods. The goods to be procured under the project are split into four major subcategories:
(a) Construction materials (cement, reinforced steel, lumber, pipes, values, gates, etc.), which
would be procured under ICB procedures for contracts valued at US$250,000 or above; LCB would
be used for contracts estimated below this threshold up to an aggregate amount of US$11.7 million
equivalent; (b) Construction and maintenance machinery, which would be procured under ICB
procedures involving three or four major packages of equipment valued at not less than US$1.0
million equivalent per package to encourage competition; (c) Laboratory and electronic equipment
would be procured under ICB for contracts valued at US$250,000; LCB procedures would be used
for contracts below this threshold up to an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million equivalent; and for
contracts below US$50,000, local or international shopping by invitation, based on price quotations
from at least three bidders up to an aggregate amount of to US$0.5 million equivalent; and
(d) Vehicles will not be financed by the Bank. Mexican manufacturers may be granted a margin of
preference on bid evaluation under ICB in accordance to Bank Guidelines.
3.44   The selection and appointment of consultants for training, studies, technical assistance,
construction designs and supervision of works will follow the August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants. In view of their specialized capabilities, technology transfer experience and good
results in previous and on-going services, CNA envisages to contract directly the services of:
(a) FAO for the provision of operational technical assistance and communications services to CNA
and WUOs (about US$1.7 million); (b) University of Arizona for training and establishing the
GPS/Airborne Survey integrated with GIS Interpretation Systems for field monitoring and establishing
of an interactive computerized crop management system for 11 crops (about US$1.2 million); and
(c) the US Soil Conservation Service for technical assistance to CNA in the areas of irrigation and
drainage technology and designs, and soil conservation (about US$1.0 million). Small contracts with
consulting engineering firms for assignments of a simple nature (e.g., supervision of works) below
US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$5.0 million, would be exempted from Bank's prior
review of selection procedures and contract conditions, but would be subject to ex-post selective
review during supervisions.
3.45   Bank's prior review would apply to: (a) all contracts awarded through ICB; (b) field
surveys, engineering services, dri.ling and topographical services (civil works subcategory) for
contracts above US$500,000; and (c) the first two contracts for goods and works, respectively, under
LCB regardless of value. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank during
supervision on a selective basis. The proposed review arrangements are expected to result in a prior
review coverage level of about 95% of Bank-financed contracts.
3. Disbursements
3.46   Bank financing (about 35% of the total project cost) will be primarily for goods and services;
no disbursement for civil works other than field surveys, engineering services, and topographic
services is expected. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999, and the Loan
closing date is June 30, 2000. The borrower, NAFIN, will establish a Special Account in Banco de
Mexico, with an initial deposit of US$14.0 million, equal to about four months' estimated average
disbursements, under established procedures between the Bank and the Government of Mexico.
Disbursements from the Loan account will be made on 90% for goods and 100% for services (both
excluding taxes and duties) for all eligible categories described in Table 4. Disbursements against
goods and works contracts below the prior review limits of US$250,000 and US$500,000,
respectively, will be made on the basis of SOEs, except for the first two contracts for goods and
works respectively. Disbursements against contracts for goods and works above the respective prior
review limits will be made against full documentation submitted to the Bank. In order to ensure
timely agreement with WUOs before June, 1996 for project implementation and capital cost recovery,
no disbursement will be made for: (a) construction and maintenance machinery after June 30, 1998;
and (b) construction materials after June 30, 1999. (See paras. 3.25, 4.1(m) and 4.3.) In view of the



- 23 -
desirability of sarting the project without de:ay, retroactive financing up to US$20 million equivalent
(10% of Loan funds) is proposed for expenditures incurred after June 21, 1993. Retroactive
financing wfll be used for preparation of feasibility studies, field surveys, training, engineering
services, designs and the first batch of machinery and construction materials for the subprojects to
start in 1994.
Table 4: Allocaton of Loan Proceeds
Expenditurs    Expected     Expetedl
Disbursement Category/      Project     Allocaton of     to be       Contrac       Bto dn
Description        Componpt No.  Lean Amount    FmaDced          Values       Pacae
(US$ milLion)   (%) V       (US$1,000)   (US$1,(A)O)
1. FWeld Surveys, Drilling,     2                10.0       90         Above 50     below 500
and Engineering Services,
(Works) 9I
2. ConsultiAg Services for      2                 4.7       1OO        below 100      N.A.
Supevision of Works
3. Constucton Materials       2 and 3           100.0       90        above 1,000    over 5,000
4. Construction and             2                50.0       90         above 250    over 1,000
Maintenance Machinery
S. Laboratory and econic        1                 2.3        90        above SO      over 250
Equipent
6. Technical Assistance         1                15.0       100          N.A.         N.A.
andTaraining
7. Unallocated                 N.A.              18.0       N.A.         N.A.         N.A.
Total for ADl CatgrIes                          200.0
v1 Component No. 1 - Technological Support, Communications and Taining.
Component No. 2 - Minor Netork Impovena_t.
Component No. 3 - On-fim Improvements.
hi Bank disburments will exclude all taxes and IVA.
g( Provied by CNA dtough oontras with specialized fims.
4. Acoounts and Audits
3.47 CNA and IMTA will maintain separate project accounts. CNA's Regional and ID Offices
would also maintain separate accounts for each participating ID covering all project-related
expenditures. All accounts will adequately rflect expenditures made in respect of the project, in
accordance with sound accounting practices acceptable to the Bank. A certified copy of the project
audit, covering CNA (mcluding the participating IMs and Regional Offices) and IMTA, prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with the March 1982 Bank document
*Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank,- will be
submitted to the Bank not more than six months after the completion of each fiscal year. The audit
report wil include a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursemeats against certified statements of
expenditure. Statements of expenditure and other audit-related material will be made available to
Bank supervision missions. At negotiatons, assurances were obtained that the Government will have
the project accounts audited using procedures acceptable to the Bank, in line with the BanMeico
Audit Ageement of November, 1991 with the General Secretariat of the Comptroller of the
Federation (SECOGEF). (See par. 4.10).)



- 24 -
S. Monitoring of Project Implementation and Bank Supervision
3.48   CNA will prepare comprehensive e.oject reports twice a year. These would cover all aspects
of physical and financial implementation, specifically:
Implementation indicators (Annex J, Table J-l-l);
Subproject implementation indicators (Anmrx J, Table J-1-l.A);
Financial indicators (Annex J, Table J-2-HI. 1);
Legal covenants (Annex J, Table J-2-111.2); and
Credit rediscount data by district (from FIRA).
In addition, once a year (in September), progress against impact indicators (Annex J, Table ' 1-II)
will be reported.  hne report due by March 1 (for the March Annual Progress Evaluation Y.ission)
will cover the previous January-December period. The report due September 30 (for the Annual
Budget and Plamning Mission) would cover the previous January-June period for all material except
the impact indicators which would be completed for the entire previous year; this report would also
cover all activities and budget proposed for the following financial year (see para. 4. 1(g)(i)).
(a) Performance Monitoring and Supervision by the Bank
3.49   Monitoring of project implementation should be facilitated by the fact that the CNA is well-
established and has effective procedures for project implementation. During the first year,
supervision would focus on: progress of training programs; progress of regulatory and administrative
changes; adequacy of the established Project Unit (PU) and its Project Monitoring System (PMS) as
shown in Annex I (PMS establishment in the PU is a condition for effectiveness (see para.
4.2(a)); the pipeline for subproject preparation (feasibility studies and construction designs) shown in
Annex L for implementation in years 3-5; and the agreements reached with the users. The executing
agency, CNA, with the support of IMTA, WUOs and participating second tier banks will, in
collaboration with the PU, produce a single joint annual report by March I each year. There will be
at least two Bank supervision missions annually. The first, in March (Annual Progress Evaluation
Mission), will visit Mexico after the delivery of the annual report (due March 1 every year after
effectiveness) and review progress made in the previous year. The second, in October (Budget and
Planning Mission) when the following year's budget is under preparation, will be combined with the
annual budget preparation review (see paras. 3.53 and 3.54). Each supervision mission would include
field visits to subproject areas under implementation, meetings with WUOs and consultants, and visits
to training sites, laboratories, survey areas, etc. Data from the PMS on implementation will be the
basis of supervision, reviewing the progress in the semester by up-dating the tables presented in the
annual report, complemented by other information as required. The civil works construction period
has to follow the March harvesting period and terminate at the start of the (winter) irrigation season
in September. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that a midterm review would take place no
later than October 31, 1997 (combined with the Semi-Annual Mission), after the third year of project
implementation (see paras. 3.55, 4.1(h)). For this purpose, an Impact Study on Agriculture
Productivity and Production and a Socio-Economic Survey of Beneficiaries will be carried out by
CNA by late-1996 (see para. 3.55). Satisfactory draft TORs for these studies were submitted to the
Bank and discussed at negotiations.
3.50 Because results from this type of project become available gradually during implementation, it
is not possible to supervise the project initially (during the first year) with all the indicators required
to measure impact. These indicators would, for example, include crop yields, water savings, farmer
incomes, and adoption rates of technologies. Supervision, therefore, concentrates first on budgetary
availability, and indicators that the project is being physically implemented. Later, as data become



-25 -
available about project costs and returns, real measures of the impact on agricultural productivity and
farmer incomes will be derived from work supported by the operation.
(b) Inplementation Indicators
3.51   At negotiations, assurances were obtained on a set of project implementation indicators (see
Annex I Tables, pp. 2-9) for monitoring progress. (See para. 4.1(d), 4. 1(g).) In all project
components, implementation indicators include construction of civil works, acquisition of goods,
numbers of staff trained, and allocation of expenditures in line with the operation's priorities. This
information will be available from the PMS and from other sources accessible to Bank supervision
missions.
(c) Inpact Indicators
3.52   At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will agree on a set -Jf
indicators (see Annex I Tables, pp. 27-34) to determine the impact of the project (see para. 4.1(d),
4.1(g)). These indicators will measure the project's long-term impact on agricultural productivity.
Data would be available on costs and administrative levels (from the PMS), and on benefits of those
activities in the field (from the impact indicators).
(d) Annual Budget and Work Plan
3.53   At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the executing agency (CNA) would present to
the Bank a budget and annual work plan no later than September 30 of each year, describing the work
to be done in the following project year (see paras. 3.25, 4.1(g) and 4.1(i)). At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government will submit to Congress the budget (fiscal funds,
excluding credit rediscount and private sector contribution) for the first year of the project for not less
than US$27.6 million. Subsequent annual budgets will be reviewed by budget and planning missions.
The Govermnent sector Policy Letter spells out key sector policies and ensure priority to the project
and adequate annual budget allocation (see paras. 3.40. 3.80(a), and Annex N).
(e) Annual Budget and Plannlng Review
3.54 At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the annual budget and planning review will
take place no later than October 31 of each year. That review would analyze the proposed budget
and work plan for the fllowing year, discuss those plans with respect to the project's implementation
indicaors (in Table 1 of Annex J), and agree on necessary changes in implementation. To facilitate
this review, the Government, through CNA, will provide to the Bank an annual work plan and
proposed budget, each for the following year, no later than September 30 every year (see para.
4.1(d), 4.1(g)). The annual budget and planning review would also analyze the technical support
component, using data from the PMS. It would analyze the training component and activities with
data provided by the supervision. An annual report covering project activities in all components (see
paras. 3.48, 4.1(g)), to be presented no later than March 1 (before the annual review mission), will
present the results of the previous year and the cumulative results from all years preceding the
previous year. The PU will manage production of the annual report in collaboration with the
executing agencies.



-26-
(M) Project Midterm Review
3.55    At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Govermnent would hold a midterm
review no later than October 31, 1997. The midterm review would also constitute the annual budget
and planning review for 1998. The midterm review would examine progress with project
implementation in all components, based on the implementation Indicators (Annex J, Table 3-1-I), and
would analyze economic results and technical quality of improvements, and project impact based on
the Impact Indicators (Annex J, Table J-1-I). The review would examine the results of the training
and professional development program, the strengthening of the OIRyD, the field monitoring reports,
the adaptive research program, the communication program and technical assistance, as well as
compliance with Government's Policy Letter and experience with project institutional arrangements.
Project impact (off- and on-farm) for the group I of modules whose implementation would begin in
1994 will be reviewed. The studies of project impact on agricultural productivity and socio-economic
status of beneficiaries will also be a major input for the mid-term review (see para. 3.52). Data will
include all information about project costs and activities, and observed or expected benefits from
those activities. All data will be completed for the first 36 months of project implementation. Based
on its analysis, the review would recommend adjustments in project implementation and a schedule to
implement these adjustments.
F. Project Benefits
3.56  The project would produce water savings of 650 Mm3/year and would increase agricultural
production by US$430 million/year. Based on the first group of 10 feasibility studies already
prepared by CNA, involving about 21 % of the project area, the proposed investment program is
expected to help intensify production, mainly through double cropping, on about 400,000 ha by the
end of 1999. Modernization and improvement in the minor irrigation network and on-farm irrigation
systems is expected to generate incremental yields, incremental production, and financial returns as a
result of increased cropping intensities, better irrigation scheduling (provided by more flexible
distribution systems), diversification of the crop mix into higher-value crops, water and energy
savings, and improved cultivation practices.
3.57  The expected increased cropping intensity would, by year 2000, result in an additional
harvested area of about 150,000 ha per year, of which 50,000 ha would include higher-value, mainly
export crops (fruits and vegetables), and 110,000 ha would be basic grains. Total production would
increase from 2.3 million mt to about 4 million mt by year 2000 (including high-value crops),
compared with an estimated 0.2 million mt increase in the absence of the project. Estimated total
farm-gate value would increase from US$470 million equivalent to US$900 million, allowing
significant increases in farmer incomes. (See Annex 1 and Working Paper C-XI.)
3.58  The combined effect of these investments will reduce agricultural imports (in relative terms),
and increase the export of fruits and vegetables. Private sector participation will also introduce
greater rationality into investment decision-making and so increase the efficiency of the huge
investments already made in the irrigation sector, including improving the overall efficiency of land
and water resource use.
3.59  The proposed investment program is expected to benefit some 40,000 farmers and the
expansion of harvested area together with diversification into fruits and vegetables would create
52,000 new jobs. At least 50% of project farmers earn about the minimum wage or below, or would
fall below that level when subsidized prices for corn and other products are reduced, as planned, tend
to reduce border prices. Once the subprojects included in this program have reached full
development, the income of these producers is expected to increase by about 85% in the case of



- 27 -
lower-income farmers, and by about 120% in the large farm sector. A socio-economic survey of
beneficiaries (see paras. 3.49, 3.55, 4.1O()) will monitor the actual Impact of project activities.
3.60  In addition to the above benefits, the project is expected to: (a) reduce the pressure on the
fiscal public budget (due to private sector financing and capital cost recovery); (b) expand the
technical and administrative capacity of the Government and the private sector to extend project
improvements to other areas; (c) increase the number of beneficiary farmers through the project's
demonstration effect; (d) promote water and energy economies; and (e) stimulate the development of a
number of services related to the expanded activities generated by the project, resulting in the creation
of ne' employment opportunities.
Economnic Analysis
3.61   Based on the extrapolation of 34 farm models representing the first group of 10 modules with
completed feasibility studies, and considering that most of the second group of modules would be
from the same IDs, the expected benefits to the proposed investments were estimated. Economic
prices were substituted for market prices using conversion factors for costs of investments and
production. Import/export parity prices for products were estimated using World Bank Primary
Commodity Price Forecasts. The expected Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated at over
19%. A sensitivity analysis was made considering the identified risks involved in this project. The
estimated ERR would decrease to 16% and 14.5%, respectively, if the implementation schedule were
delayed one and two years (see Annex 1). Farm models prepared for the 10 subprojects involving the
first year group of irrigation modules (see Working Paper C-X). Two sets of Internal Financial Rates
of Return (IORR) were estimated for each model, based on international prices: (a) farmer IFRRs,
where the CNA share of investment costs is not included as a farmer cost; and (b) subprojects IFRRs,
where full investment costs at market prices were considered, including both CNA and farmer shares.
Ihe results range from 21% to 59% for (a), and from 13% to 26% for (O). The different farm
models represent, for each ID, several farm sizes, cropping patterns, and type of investments (only
off-farm improvements and/or on-farm development, crop intensification and/or diversification, etc.).
G. Cost Recovery
1. The Legal Frmework
3.62 Provisions regarding cost recovery for O&M are found in the Mexican's Federal Law of
Rights (Ley Federal de Derechos), National Water Law (Ley de Aguas Naceonales) and Rural
Districts Law (Ley de Dta*os de Desamolo Rurl).
3.63   Under the proposed project, the participating modules have already been transferred and are
self-sufflicient in meetng their O&M expenses. These charges are determined by WUOs and are
treated as private charges outside the scope of the Federal Law of Rights. There is no legal limitation
against having 100% O&M recovery within a decentralized ID. Wiith regard to the infrastructure
administered by CNA which provides water to the module but has not been transferred to the users,
CNA cLarges a bulk water charge to cover its O&M costs. Tnis charge is regulated by the Federal
Law of Rights and is subject to the budget approved for CNA.
3.64   Pwvisions regarding cost recovery of capital investments in pubic works are in the Federal
Law of Improvements Contribution for Hydralic Infrastructure. Beneficiaries must pay up to 90%
of the reimbursable cost of the investment. This charge is paid semiannually or annually for a
maximum of 40 years, and is adjusted semi-annually in accordance with the CPI. Reimbursable costs
are defined In the same law. They are calculated by the CNA, but may be reduced by Presidenti



-28 -
decree based on ability to pay. For IDSP, CNA's goal for capital cost recovery is an average of 30%
for newly initiated investment projects. This policy represents a substantial improvement from
historical policies in Mexico's irrigation sector, which have required little or nothing in the way of
capital cost recovery. CNA's commitment to the principle of capital cost recovery Is seen in several
IDs in the northwest and north, where water users have begun paying 15 percent of capital costs
required for on-going rehabilitation and modernization works. For the proposed project, a capital
cost recovery for the public works (minor network) of 50% will be applied (as woul  i agreed in the
Implementation and Cost Recovery Agreement that would be signed between CNA and each
parocipant WUO). (See paras. 3.14, 3.25 and 3.29.)
2. Capital Cost Recovery
3.65   Under the proposed project and based on the repayment capacity of the farmers, CNA's goal
for capital cost recovery for the minor irrigation network improvements, which are primarily public
works, is 50% in real terms. Cost recovery would be implemented through an additional item in the
water fees adjusted semi-annually in line with the CPI for a repayment period not longer than 20
years. (rhe collection of these additional items is feasible and legal.) Agreements satisfactory to the
Bank will be signed between CNA and each WUO before investments take place (see paras. 3.14 and
3.25). Investment capital cost recovery will be 50% and 100% in real terms for the minor network
Improvement (public works) and on-farm improvements (private ownership), respectively.
Implementation Cost Recovery agreements will be signed between CNA and each participating WUO
for cost recovery of the minor network investments (see paras. 4.1O) and 4.1(m)).
3.66   CNA!s goal for capital cost recovery for "on-farm" improvements under the proposed project
Is 100%. Private banks would finance farmers up to 80% of the total investment for on-farm
improvements. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that banks would rediscount the loans
(through second-tier institutions such as FIRA, BANCOMEXT, and NAFIN) according to conditions
for long-term yield projects2l. (See Working Paper C-VI and para. 4.1(o).) The on-farm
investment projects will require six to ten years for repayment. The regular terms and conditions for
fiancing will be applied and no credit subsidies are expected from this rural credit financing.
Borrower water rights could be taken as loan collateral and farmers could repay loans via water fees
by transferring their payments to the lender through WUOs that would have special agreements with
the banks.
3. O&M Cost Recovery
3.67 CNA has two interrelated short-term goals relevant to O&M: (a) bringing levels of O&M
xenditures up to "normal" levels required to fully maintain systems (thereby avoiding deferred
maintenance); and (b) 100% recovery of O&M costs from water users. The primary mechanisms for
acieving these goals are, first, the rehabilitation and modernization of MDs, and, secondly, the
tmsfer of responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities to water users.
3.68   Under IDSP, CNA has made notable progress in achieving these goals prior to the completion
of reabilitation works in many IDs, particularly in 21 large IDs in the northwest. Cost recovery
rates based upon budgeted expenditures (including CNA labor costs) which are legally recoverable
ros from levels of 15% to 20% prior to 1989 to some 38% in 1991. For 1992-93 agricultura year
the levels of self-sufficiency achieved for the O&M expenses in the IDs are estimated to be 78% (in
2 TMm mai fetures of such conditions are indiced In the FIMA Credar Tdcnica No. 32 (September, 1992) and refer to
Icemena rediscont pecentages from the current 80% to 90% (5-9 year loans) and up to 95% (9-12 year loans), makng the
leabig mor sattive to banks.



-29 -
average) for the total 77 IDs. The 15 IDs already transferred to WUOs (under IDSP) achieved 100%
O&M recovery in December 1992.
H. Environmental Effects
3.69   The proposed project has been rated 'B". It exclusively supports improvements in existing
irrigation systems mainly supplied by surface water through gravity systems and will not finance any
new irrigation development nor any increased exploitation of groundwater. No major environmental
issue is foreseen under the project. In fact, it is expected to contribute positively to one critical
environment problem in Mexico: water scarcity. The project is designed to tackle the problem of
improving the efficiency of resource use under sustainable environmental conditions, including long-
term concerns. This would be achieved through: (a) an improved regulatory framework (through the
implementation of regulatory and administrative changes in the participating IDs); and
(b) technological support to farmers and their WUOs.
3.70   No direct negative environmental impact of the project is expected. It would reduce risks of
waterlogging and salinity through the development of more efficient water distribution and drainage
systems, and by providing incentives to save water through the investment in the minor network and
on-farm systems, combined with farmer and WUO training. Reduced waterlogging would also help
in the conmrol of water-borne diseases.
3.71   Although the project is rated 'B," and in order to create desirable discipline in the sector, an
environmental check list will be prepared for each subproject. Compliance with this check list will be
cleared by the Environmental Branch manager in the CNA Water Management Directorate (Sub-
Dlrecdldn General de Adminlsraddn del Agua) prior to approval of work in a subproject. (See
Project Working Paper D-VI.)
I. Role of Women
3.72   Women have an active role in all phases of agricultural activity in Mexico, alth sgh that role
changes somewhat by ethnic group, region, and level of tz.xm mechanization. To develop better
information about the role of women in the selected IDs and their participation in irrigated
agriculture, all project related surveys of farm households will ensure that women are included as
informants, and that questions are asked that will identify gender-specific issues related to productive
roles and access to land, finance, and other resources. These survey results would be used as a basis
to identify potential strategies for addressing gender issues within the project. Depending on the
results of the surveys, and the extent to which gender-specific strategies are required to achieve
project goals, a workshop will be conducted by CNA at the mid-term review of the project, where
participants will develop specific proposals to be incorporated into CNA's work program. An IMTA
consultant specialized in gender-related analysis will assist in the design, implementation, and
analytical work of the survey, and, if needed, will serve as a resource person to the workshop and th3
development of proposals. Implementation and follow-up to plans outlined in the seminar will be
undertaken by CNA, with monitoring carried out as part of the annual project review process.
3.73  In addition, in the development and strengthening of WUOs, active participation by women In
organizational meetings will be encouraged by CNA. The extent of participation of women in WUOs
and in training communication programs will be monitored and reviewed regularly by the responsible
1MTA team. During annual reviews these points will be reviewed.



- 30 -
1. Regulatory and Administrative Changes
3.74 The new legal framework as laid down in the recent National Water and Agrarian Laws
establishes the basis to encourage private investment in irrigation. However, the application of the
Water Law to the IDs requires the issuance of rules and regulations or of administrative provisions.
Such rules and regulations are necessary for private investment to be able to benefit from the
incentives foreseen in the new legislation, because until they are issued the old law will not be
completely abrogated. CNA is in an advanced process to complete the changes by January 1995.
The current constraints regard the following issues (see Working Paper C-I, Appendix 1): (a) priority
ranking for irrigation water supply under scarcity circumstances; (b) water distribution system and
maximum area for irrigation; (c) transfer of water rights; (d) use of water and adoption of flexible
distribution systems; and (e) title to support the transfer of hydraulic infrastructure to users. All these
issues have been addressed through the Regulation of the new Water Law, and will be followed by
the establishment of IDs Water Conmittees and regulation of each participating ID.
3.75   There has been little incentive for private investment in irrigation in Mexico in the past due to
a complex political, legal regulatory and administrative environment regarding the use of land and
water. Although constitutional (Article 27) and legal (Agrarian and Water Laws) reforms have
removed most constraints, some remaining regulatory and administrative aspects still have to be
revised.
3.76 The regulatory and administrative changes mandated under the new Water Law eliminate
many restrictions on private investment in irrigation. To ensure commitment to objectives and
minimize risks on schedules, project preparation was accomplished with active participation of
Government officials and required action on a number of fronts. CNA is already taking the following
steps, imter alia, required to lift these restrictions:
(a)    Regulatory. Regulation of the Water Law to make the law effective and thus open
the way to the establishment of the Water Committees (ComiWs Hdiulicos de
Dish*os) of the Irrigation Districts. The implementing regulations of the Water Law
have been issued on January 12, 1994.
(b)    Adinistrative Changes. The establishment of District Water Committees will allow
the preparation of a new regulation for each ID, to be adopted in a plenary meeting of
all users in the ID (organized in the WUO). Assistance should be given by CNA to
District Water Committees and their WUOs to encourage them to prepare and issue
the ID Regulation. A condition of effectiveness is that all the 14 participating IDs
using surface water will have issued their regulations. (See para. 4.2(e).) The ID
Regulation will allow:
(i)  the developn.ant of uniform standards for water allocation and its
measurement. (One possibility is to divide the amount of water into quota
groups which would be allocated in relation to the area to be irrigated.);
(ii)  the introduction of much greater flexibility for farmers in the use of water
within their quotas, so as to match changing crop irrigation requirements; and
(iii) the transfer, totally or partially, of water rights (under conditions set forth in
the regulation) and, thus, promotion of water markets.



-31 -
3.77   As a result of the new regulatory structure described above (para. 3.76(a)), the following
further reforms will be necessary:
(a)    all participating IDs shall establish their regulations in accordance with the objectives
and requirements of the Water Law; and
(b)    WUOs in participating IDs will change their statutes as may be required by the Water
Law.
3.78   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government, through CNA, that all
participating IDs shall establish their regulations in accordance with the objectives and the
requirements of the Water Law, and that the WUOs in the participating IDs shall make such changes
to their statutes as may be required by the Water Law. (See para. 4.1(k).)
3.79 After completion of feasibility studies and construction designs, each participating module will
adopt, in a plenary meeting of all users of the WUO, recommendations from the studies and designs,
including commitments for implementation and repayment of capital costs. These agreements are
conditions for WUOs' participation in the project. For this purpose, CNA will sign with each WUO
Design Commitments (after feasibility and before designs) and Implementation and Cost Recovery
Agreements (after completion of designs and before implementation start-up). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that CNA will use standard "Design Commitments" and "Implementation
and Cost Recovery Agreements" acceptable to the Bank. (See paras. 4.10) and 4.1(m). Appendix 2
of Project Working Paper D-E presents the draft for such agreements discussed with CNA during
appraisal.)
K. Project Risks
3.80   This sort of projpct involves three typical risks, as suggested by Bank experience worldwide
and in Mexico in particular:
(a)    Failure in the provision of adequate and timely govermnent counterpart funds.
This risk would be addressed, in part, through monitoring CNA's annual budget cycle
by the Bank, especially through the annual budget review (see para. 4.1(i)). At
negotiations, the Government agreed to submit a request for sufficient budget
allocation (not less than US$27.6 million) for the proposed project for 1994 to th.X
Congress. The 1994 budget has received congressional approval. By March 31 of
each year, the Governmei,t would give evidence that the budget funds are released, as
evidenced by the SHCP budget expenditures clearance called "oficios de autorizaci6n
de inversidn" in an amount satisfactory to the Bank (see para. 4.1(n)). At
negotiations, the Government presented to the Bank and discussed a satisfactory draft
Policy Letter that spells out key sector policies and ensure priority to the project and
adequate annual budget allocation (see para. 3.53 and Annex N). A satisfactory
signed Sector Policy Letter has been submitted.
(b)    Failure in the timely availability of complete feasibility studies, field surveys,
designs, and up-front agreements with WUOs on the priorities, schedules, and cost
sharing for each subproject to be implemented and delivery of construction materials
and machinery on schedule with actual subproject implementation. This risk will be
addressed by: (i) ensuring that planning for a portfolio of subprojects is completed
one year in advance, including plans for the first year implementation (see paras.
4.1(c), 4.1(m), and 3.79, 4.2(d), and Annex L); and (ii) through a dependable



- 32 -
monitoring and supervision of the procurement, pooling and distribution of such
material and machinery (see paras. 3.26 to 3.29 and 4.2(c)).
(c)   Insuffident willingness among farmers to invest in on-farm improvement by
borrowing money from banks and the insufficient availability of credit from private
banks. This risk will be addressed by communication actions, analytical results of
farm models, technical assistance, demonstration plots, monitoring rediscount reports
from second tier banks (see paras. 3.48 and 4.1(g)), and the training of farmers and
local bank staff. Private banks through their association stated during appraisal that
access to credit will be based on technological analysis of the subprojects and thus the
lending decision-making criteria would be based on merit. The feasibility studies
prepared for each subproject indeed will contribute positively to this analysis. Also,
collateral provision could be facilitated through farmer individual water rights and
through participation of WUOs in the credit lending contracts to facilitate collection of
default farmers (see paras. 3.32 and 3.66). The current portfolio of FIRA rediscount
to private banks' on-farm investments for irrigation is about US$120 million
equivalent, which indicates sufficient access to credit by the farmers expected to
benefit under the project.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1    During Negotiations assurances were obtained in the following:
(a)    The IDs that will participate in the project. (See para. 3.10)
(b)    Construetion designs for all modules would be based upon Terms of References which
have been reviewed and approved by the Bank during appraisal. (See para. 3.25)
(c)    Feasibility studies and construction designs would be prepared in accordance with
timetables reviewed and approved by the Bank during appraisal. (See paras. 3.14 and
3.34)
(d)    Progress in project implementation and the impact of the project would be measured
by agreed upon implementation and impact indicator, for both the whole project and
for each subproject, every six months. (See paras. 3.51 and 3.52)
(e)    The Government would: (a) maintain within CNA an organizational structure with
functions and staff satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation and supervision of
the project; (b) promptly inform the Bank of any proposed change in this
organizational structure or functions; and (c) maintain the PU with appropriate
fiinctions, structure and staff satisfactory to the Bank. (See para. 3.40)
(t)    The Government would: (i) prepare the Manual for Design of Minor Irrigation
Structures according to the TOR agreed upon at appraisal; and (ii) make the Manual
available to the users (CNA staff, WWUOs, OIRyD, consultants, et lin, no later than
January 1, 1995. (See para. 3.23)
(g)    CNA would: (i) furnish to the Bank annual and semi-annual reports in a format
acceptable to the Bank not later than March 1 and September 30 of each year, said
reports to include the status of FIRA's lending program under the project; (ii) provide
to the Bank an annual work plan for the following year no later than September 30 of
each year; and (iii) hold a semi-annual review no later than October 31 of each year



- 33 -
to assess project implementation and to agree on follow-up actions as necessary.
(See paras. 3.48, 3.54, and 3.80(c))
(h)    The Government and CNA would: (i) hold a midterm review with the Bank no later
than October 31, 1997, to assess project implementation and impact, based on the
indicators agreed progress and impact and the study of the project's impact on
agricultural 'roductivity; and (ii) make changes in project design and implementation
as recommended by the midterm review and agreed by the Bank. (See para. 3.49)
(i)    CNA would provide timely information to allow the Bank to monitor its annual
budget allocations for the project and the Govermment would provide the Bank wfit
evidence of the actual release of sufficient budget funds to CNA. (See paras. 3.40
and 3.80(a))
OJ)    The Government would maintain the project accounts and have them audited using
procedures acceptable to the Bank. (See para. 3.47)
(k)    CNA shall ensure that all participating IDs have regulations consistent with the WVater
Law and that WUOs in these IDs make such changes in their statutes as may be
required to conform with the Water Law. (See para. 3.78)
(1)    CNA would use standard agreements for: (i) Design Commitments, and
(ii) Implementation and Cost Recovery Agreements acceptable to the Bank. (See
paras. 3.39 and 3.65)
(im)   CNA would ensure that all the Implementation and Cost Recovery Agreements with
the participating WUOs have been signed by June, 1996. (See paras. 3.46, 3.80(b),
and 4.3)
(n)    By March 31 of each year, the Government would give evidence for the budget funds
release, as evidenced by the "oficios de autorizaci6n de inversidn." (See para.
3.80(a))
(o)    Government would ensure that adequate credit facilities for projects with long
maturation periods would be applied to the on-farm financing of the project. (See
paras. 3.32 and 3.66)
(p)    CNA would submit to the Bank, by March 31, 1995, a study of the impact of
electricity tariff policies and related issues and their impact on the stabilization of tff
three main endangered aquifers in the Pacific coast, any possible funding of activities
in these aquifers being contingent on the satisfactory completion of such study. (See
paras. 2.14 and 3.14)
4.2    Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a)    Establishment of a project monitoring system in CNA's Project Unit. (See paras.
3.40, 3.80(a) and 3.49)
(b)    NAFIN to enter Into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the
Government for the transfer of the loan proceeds. (See para. 3.36)



- 34 -
(c)    Signing of contract between CNA and a specialized firm, satisfactory to the Bank, for
inventory control of construction materials and machinery. (See para. 3.29)
(d)    Delivery to the Bank of construction designs for all subprojects included in the first
group of modules. (See para. 3.25)
(e)    All participating IDs using surface water have issued their regulations. (See para.
3.76(b))
(f)    Signing of a contractual arrangement between CNA and IMTA for implementation by
IMTA of its parts under the project. (See para. 3.39)
(g)    Presentation of a satisfactory draft Minor Irrigation Structures Design Manual. (See
paras. 3.23 and 4.1(t))
4.3    Conditions of Disbursements: No disbursement will be made for: (a) construction and
mance machinery after June 30, 1998, and (b) construction materials after June 30, 1999. (See
para. 3.46.)
4.4    Recommendation: With these agreements and conditions, the project would be eligible for a
Bank loan of US$200.0 million equivalent with a term of 15 years, including a three-year grace
period.



- 35 -
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEXES
Annex A.      Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Projects
Annex B.      Project Costs
Annex C.      Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
Annex D.      Technological Support, Comm   cations, and Training Component
Annex E.      Minor Irrigation Network Improvements Component
Annex F.      Maitenance and Construcdon Machinery Sub-Component
Annex G.      On-Farm Improvements Component
Annex H.      Project Charts
Annex I.      Economic Evaluadon
Annex J.      Project Supervision and Monitoring
Annex K.      Selection of Subprojects
Annex L.      Feasibity Studies and Construction Designs Schedules
Annex M.      Public Investment Cost Recovery
Annex N.      Govenment Policy Letter and Trnlation
Annex 0.      Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files



ANNEX A
- 36 -                               Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR lRRIGATION NETWORKS IMROVEMENT PROJECT
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Projects
Bakgoud
1.    The Bank has considerable experience in financing irrigation and drainage projects in Mexico.
Between 1965 and 1991, the Bank approved 18 loans totaling US$1.4 billion to assist the government
in its hydralic infrastructure program. These projects, excluding the ongoing Irrigation and
Drainage Sector Project (IDSP), contributed to the creation of 500,000 ha of irrigated land and to the
rehabilitation of an additional 900,000 ha in northem Mexico.
2.    The Bank (US$400 million) is co-financing IDSP with the IDB (IDB US$200 million). The
project has four major objectives (three of which are policy-related): (a) to decentralize and privatize
through the transfer of Irrigation Districts (lDs) from government to Water User's Organizations
(WUOs); (b) to achieve O&M full cost recovery and sustainable self-sufficiency; (c) to introduce a
system to select investments by merit, thus improving efficiency in budget allocation; and (d) to
complete selected unfinished projects rather than begin new ones.
3.    The identification and design of the proposed On-farm and Minor Irrigation Networks
Improvement Project benefitted from the lessons and experience of Bank experience in the sub-sector
in Mexico, an Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) irrigation sector evaluation (the
'Rehabilitation and Consolidation of Irrigation Investments"), and from the recent Bank yellow cover
report "Review of Conditions for Encouraging Private Investments in Irrigation in Mexico." The
Bank had a successful experience in Mexico with the design-relevant Small-Scale Agriculture
Infrastucture Project (Loan 1463-ME). The IDB has had four operations in the same area. The
recent IDB evaluation study noted above highlights the negative effects of the incomplete status of the
minor networks and on-farm improvements, and recommends giving highest priority to the
completion of on-farm and minor off-farm investments. Our "Review of Conditions for Private
Invesunents in Irrigation" is a major source of subsector knowledge, and its recommendations were
taken into account during preparation of the proposed project.
Lmons from the on-going rrigation and Drnage Sector Project (Loan 3419-ME)
4. Project results have so far been rated "very satisfactory." The key project implementing
indicators related to policy like the transfer of IDs to WUOs and O&M self-sufficiency are ahead of
schedule. The major current problems are related to a lack of Government counterpart funds for
1993 and 1994 (34% and 25% less than estimated in the SAR as required, respectively), as well as
the failure to properly up-date existing designs that are based on old fashioned concepts of water
control, distribution and measurement. Introducing modernization concepts in the design of irrigation
projects in Mexico is a major requirment. This objective should be pursued through intensive
training and up-dating of the current design mamual tat was prepared in the late 1950s.
L4=m from the Small-Scal Agriculture Ifrastuctmr Project (Loan 1643-M
S.    This was the fifth of six projects designed to promote the development of small-scale
infras r in Mexico, specifically in small-scale irrigation, drainage and livestock schemes. Five
of these projects have been financed with IDB loans, and one by IBRD. Small-scale agricultural



ANNEX A
-  37  -                                  Page 2 of 3
infrastructure is a national program that has been implemented in Mexico since early 1960. This
program is especially attractive in periods of limited resources because of lower unit costs, the shorter
time required for construction, and the rapid realization of benefits.
6.     The sustainability of the different subprojects has varied, however. Irrigation and drainage
subprojects have shown a high sustainability as long as adequate financing is secured to operate and
maintain the infrastructure. Beneficiaries' participation in financing the investments, as well as in
bearing the cost of operating and maintaining agricultural infrastructure, is essential to obtain high
sustainability.
Lessons Leamed from Other Irriation Projects in Mexico
7.     Active involvement of beneficiaries in subproject design, implementation and operation is
essential for success. The most effective way to achieve their participation is to have beneficiaries
bear and fmnance part of the construction cost, including through credit (as has been done with the
tube-well schemes). The beneficiaries' assumption of part of the cost of the hydraulic infrastructure,
beginning at the outset of the project rather than later, increased the WUOs' level of commitment to
use the infrastructure effectively, and to recover quickly the money invested in it.
8.    Monitoring water use in irrigation subprojects is essential for the good management of this
scarce resource. Flow meters, a relatively minor cost-item, should be provided as part of future
projects. Extension services should educate farmers about the importance of the meters and irrigation
scheduling to optimizing crop production. In larger surface water schemes, measuring devices should
be provided as a matter of course at all distribution structures, including even the smallest farm
turnouts (approximately 50 ha).
9.     Beneficiaries organized in users' associations have demonstrated their responsiveness for
operating and maintaining the infrastructure transferred by the Government. CNA oversees that
users' associations fulfill their commitments: this set-up is generally worldng well in transferred IDs.
10.   Counterpart funds in adequate amounts and on a timely basis have been a major constraint in
most irrigation operations in Mexico.
11.   The timely preparation of feasibility studies and final engineering designs has also been a
constraint to the implementation of several projects.
12.   Finally, the implementation of saline soil reclamation components has been poor in most
projects due mainly to a lack of adequate policies, planning, and technology.
Summary of Recommendations
13. As a result of the analysis of experience, past and on-going, with irrigation projects in Mexico,
and the two sectoral reviews noted in para. 3 above, six recommendations are particularly relevant to
the proposed project and were taken into account in the project design:
(a)    training in modern irrigation methods and technology, as well as in the design and
construction of minor hydraulic structures and networks, is required to imnplement a
program of change towards efficiency and modernization (see para. 3.15);



-i   _1 t         1 ! 3
r.1  iIMg  CB-ig 
t1~So. §    f    i    lX
^          h
qa.  s



-   39    -                                         Anz B
o*AM AM ti43a xucnsON rWMOfwm 2dtVUQ    PROJWI                               Page 1 of 2
PRorwCr COMS
?Tb 1. h4mes c.puyacm s Onw
-   L      ~        x_       _       ____                   w                       -       =     
(NS Millions)            (US$ Milions)                      %
-. .                               _ _                           Toald
Local    Forign    Total    Loal   Foeign   Total   % Fotwign    8
A. Technolookd ftpro C           -mmuuWdlCo
NW T8IO
T gwm aud  P _asulood Dptelopwd               5.7       9.9      5.6       1.8      3.2     5.0        64        1
Pield Monitdoigaud Surve                     32.9       4.1     37.0     10.6       1.3    11.9        11       2
Adaptive Researh                             23.9       6.0     29.9      7.7       1.9     9.6        20       2
Comzunlcation and Participation               4.4       6.4     10.8      1.4       2.1     3.5        59        1
Ftabiliy Studies                              6.4       2.4      8.8      2.1       0.8     2.8        27        1
CoUSUIJtAMlS & External Assistance            5.0       8.8     13.8      1.6       2.8     4.5        64       I
SubtotalTech. Suppont Commanie. an Trining   78J3      37.6    115.9     253       12.1    37.4        32       7
B. Mnor Ntork mpvemes
Fled Survey. Engineering SeMes               42.6      12.0     54.6     13.7       3.9    17.6       22        4
Deips nd Supervidson
Procuretm oe  Machinery fot                  30.7    137.9    168.6       9.9      44.5    54.4        82      11
Conmuction and maimne
Procurement of Construction Matedals         8.4    106.1    194.6       28.5      34.2    62.8       55       13
far Irigation Networs
Inventory Conol and AitIng                    5.0       1.9      6.8      1.6       0.6     2.2        27
ClilWeorks                                  273.8              273.8     8S.3              88.3                1 IS
SubroralMnorNetwork uptovemeAls             440.5    257.9    698.4    142.1       83.2   225.3        37      45
C. On-PFSm Imprvems
Pemento Confstutionbflae                     52.6      63.1    115.8     17.0      20.4    37.3       55        7
OnPFam Civi Worb                            332.2              332.2    107.2             107.2                21
IrIgation Equipmen                          1463      146.3    292.7     47.2      47.2    94.4       50       19
Subtoa On-Fanr Isstosments                  531.2    209.5    740.7    171.4       67.6   238.9       28       48
Totl Ba    Cate                            1050.0    505.0   15S5.0    338.7    162.9   501.6          32      100
Phyal Co _tln                                15.6      32.6     48.2      5.0      10.5    15.6        68       3
Pdee Contingencies                          113.4      46.6    160.0     36.6      15.0    51.6       29       10
Total Project Costs                        1179.0    584.2   17632    380.3   1IS8.    568.8           33      113
Table 2. Prcursent Aagements - Non IC8ILCB Agre&aed as Oter
Preourement Method
Iteational   Local
Cwttive   Competiive    Shopping       Consulting
___________________________________  Bidding                 Bidding                   Services       N.B.P.        TOtal
A. CivilWors                                          .            .          .            .          9S.2          98.2
B. On-Fann Works and Eq*ipnre.                                                                        231.6        231.6
C. FildSurveys, Drlf   andTopogssphiServic            .            1.6       9.7           .                        11.3
(1.5)     (8.8)                                  (10.3)
D. ConstucdionMUedss                                94.0          23.5        .            .                        117.5
(84.6)      (21.2)                                             (107.8)
E. Constuction Machiny nd EquIpmeat                 66.1           .          .                                     66.1
(59.5)                                                         (59.S)
F.  Laboratory ad Eletroc  Equipme                    1.3          0.5       0.5                                    2.3
(1.2)       (0.5)       (0.4)                                  (2.1)
G. Vebicl                                                         .                                   0.7          0.7
H. Designs and Supervisln otWork                                                          S.S                       5.5
(5.0)                    (5.0)
1 Cons.. Tain.. Comm. an Tc.bAss.                     .            .          .           19.0         0.8          19.8
(173)                     (173)
J.  Recuent Cos                                       .                                                15.8    I    15.8
ToWd                                            161.4         25.6       10.2         24.5        347.1        568.8
(145.3)      (23.2)      (9.2)    1 (223)                      C200.0)
.__~- ,=.-  _. 



- 140 -                                              Annew 
C0
aUM ANM MINOR  3WA1noN MCWORD MMOVEHM    nanWT                               Pago 2 of 2
Table 3. ?roe  Comp_on    by Year
B __ Coad
1994    1995    1996   1997   198        19    To
A   T        bcbndooi e Support, Cou ean ad Traw"
TaSdiro amo Prol Dev     lopnsat                               1.4     13      1.0      03      05      0.A      5.0
Field Monitoring and Sueya                                     2.3    3.6      1.6      1.6     1.7     1.0    11.9
Adatv Resear                                                   1.8    4.1      2.2     0.7      0.7      -       9.6
Coarniusloation and Partcleton                                 1.2    0.9      0.7     OA       03        .      3.5
Feasibility Snidls                                             1.2     1.7              .       .                2.8
Consultanclas  Exteral Asssance                                2.1     1.4     0.7     0.2      0.1      -       4.5
Subtotal Tohnologl  Suppon. CornunioationsaAd Training         9.9    13.1     6.2     3.4      3.3     1.5    37.4
B. Mino Networt Lmpoveme
Fild Suveys.  gIeerg Services, Desg     SupervIsIon            0.7    4.2      4.5      4.0     3.3     0.9     17.6
P    em    of Macbimy f CowtluonandMalne oc                    6.6   22.9    163        8.6                      54.4
Procremef C        _ofCon Materli als r irrason Networ         0.9     9.5    18.1    18.9    10.4      5.1    62.8
nventry Contrl and Audn                                        0.1     0.3     0.7      0.7     0.3     0.2      2.2
Cie  Wodr                                                      2.1     5.9     9.7    26.3    34.2      9.9    88.3
Subtal MIo Network Ikmpvovn                                  10.3   42A      49.3   5S.5    48.2    16.1   225.3
C. O-Farm I mpprovasa
Pcureinen  of Co     a trinMaslteri                            0.6     4.2     y       10.1     9.8     4.7    37.3
On-Fum Civi Wark                                               23      3.2    13.9    26.1    30.6    31.0    107.2
.  gaion Equpme                                                1.9    4.7    14.2    23.6    26.4    23.6    94.4
Subtoal Oa-Farnt bprov_lanres                                  4.8    12.2    36.1    59.8    66.8    59.3   238.9
Total Baoln Coss                                              25.0   68.1    91.6   121.8   118.3    76.9   501.6
Physia Conti_aenc                                              1.1    4.5      4.4      3.4     1.5     0.7    15.6
Pdre Continea_es                                               OA      3.1     6.9    12.7    15.9    12.7    51.6
Taxl Proje Cos                                                26.5   75.7   102.8   137.8   135.7    903    568.8
TaS                                                            1.5    5.0  j53          4.6     2.7      1.2    20.3
Foeign Bxchn                                                  12.5   39.1    43.6    42.5    29.9    20.9    188.5
. ~ ~      ~        ~        ~       ~         _ -             . .  -                     =_  .
TaMle 4. Componvt by Fin
-~~~~~~~ -   =     -                                                                                  =.--_avxO
Governmentof
Peivate              Red. 2nd.   Medco (Fis
sector      D        Tir Banks        Funds)       Total
A. T_odmoo Suppott C4n*ao=  Tn4f
Thlain8 SWld Pfcasloo Dmwpm                                                 4.9            .              QS       5.4
Fred Monitog and Survy.                                           -         1.8           .              11.1    12.8
AdVdn Rmecb                                                     4.2         2.0           1.8             2.1     10.2
Communication and Pkftdi                                                    2.7           .               1.0      3.7
FeasibMty Sudies                                                            2.7                           0.3      2.9
Cosllansla&   ernal A      _isane                                 .         4.2            -              0.4      4.6
Subtotal Technola&d Support,    _     rand Ttm nlnh              4.2       18.2           1.8            ISA1    39.6
B.  Mino Nework improvemesb
rowld SurveySa elow    Servicesl Dei.n Superio                    *        14.5            -              5.2    19.7
Puremntof Manint fa Coaitruet and Meance _                                 593            .               6.6    65.9
P _ouem   of CouodonMeterlh fo Irrigat  Net                       -        66.1                           7.3    73.4
Iventy Con   and Audt                                                       2.2           .               0.2      2.4
Cm  Wok                                                          .          .             .              982      98.2
Subeo  Mino Ntwork Nc ova_M                                               142.1                         117.5   259.6
C. On-Fam 1povruMIS
Pouement of cotnctin Mari                                         .        39.7                           4A      44.1
On-Farm Civi Wrsb                                               43.2                     76.9             .      120.1
Iigto Equipe                                                    38.0        .            67.5                    105.4
Subal On-Fr Impomnt                                             81.2       39           144.4             4.4   269.6
Taom DIsbuse                                                    85.4      199.9          146.2          1372    568.8
_ S. . ..... .. -.                                                                   m               -   w-S._  nv  .



- 41 -
ANEX C
BEXCO
ON-FAaM AMD MINOR TREIGATION NETWOR1S MROVEMENT PROJECT
Etimnated Schdule of ank Dlsburameus
(US$ milion)
Bank                       Disbused         Cumulative Disbursement
Fiscal    Semester         During          AmutCredit
Yeardi_                          _ Semester  ._% of Tow I             Balance
200.0
1994     June 94
1995     December 94         20.01 1        25.0           10          180.0
June 95             15.0          35.0           18          165.0
1996     December 95         20.0           55.0           28          145.0
June 96            20.0           7S.0           38          125.0
1997     December 96         20.0           95.0           48          105.0
June 97            20.0           115.0          58           85.0
1998     December 97         20.0          135.0           68          65.0
June 98            20.0           155.0          78           45.0
1999     December 98         15.0          170.0           85          30.0
June 99             15.0          185.0          93           15.0
2000     December 99          15.0         200.0          100           0.0
June   00       I  '          I  .          I             I   -
[f   Includes an nil deposit in the Special Account of US$14 million and up to US$20 million
in retroactive financing for eligible expendiures incumrd af  June 21, 1992.



-   42                              ANNEX D
-      -                               PPp I of 6
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Support, Communication, and Training Component
(US$39.6 Million Total Cost)&'
1.    The Technical Support, Communication, and Training component aims to promote modern
concepts of irrigation design, professional development, adaptive research, and water user
participation, principally in the "core area" IDs. It will have the following sub-components:
(a) preparation of feasibility studies; (b) training and professional development; (c) field monitoring
and soil surveys; (d) communication and participation; (e) adaptive research; and (t) technical
assistance.
2.    Although some training of WUO staff is included in the IDSP, the range of training will be
considerably broadened under the project. IDSP training is aimed to support the transfer of the
districts to WUOs, organizational and administrative matters, financial management, and cost
recovery. The proposed project supports training in irrigation management and irrigation technology.
It will increase the capacity of the users to analyze and choose among technological options with the
aim of increasing the return to invested capital. On a larger scale, the project will also help to
increase the reurn on investment in the main systems under the IDSP.
(a) Feasibility Studies (EJS$2.9 million)
3.    IThe feasibility studies sub-component will support the preparation of feasibility studies for 44
subprojects (modules). The studies will be used to determine the economic and technical feasibility of
each subproject. They will also serve as a basis for the discussions between CNA and the WUOs,
with the aim of reahing an agreement on the scone of the project and the definition of mutual
responsibilitles. The studies will mainly be prepared by the staff of the CNA Irrigation and Drainage
Engineering Field Offices (OlRyD), with the assistance of local consultants in specific areas. The
first 10 completed studies-covering 11 modules-have served as a basis of project appraisal. These
studies cover about 84,000 ha, or about 21% of the total project area. The remaining 33 modules
(about 307,300 ha) will be handled in 14 additional feasibility studies. Details are provided in
Worldng Paper C-Dl, Secton 1. Because the timely availability of feasibility studies is critical for
project implementation and the agreements with the WUOs will depend upon these studies, at
negotiations CNA agreed on: (a) draft standard agreements with WUOs; and (b) time-tables to
complete the feasibility studies (before July, 1995). Draft feasibility studies for the modules above
10,000 ha have been presented to the Bank.
(b) Training and Professional Development (US$ 5.4 million)
4.    Tis sub-component aims to develop and expand the professional skills and capacities of
technical staff (CNA, WUO, and others) and farmers Involved in implementing the project. It will
create a critical mass of well-educated professionals at various levels and institutions, who would
share a common understanding and jointly contribute to the modernization of the irrigation sector.
J' Component and subcomponent costs presented in parenthesis include contingencies.



ANNEX D
_ 43 -                                    hge 2 of 6
Participants in the training program will include: (a) engineers and technical staff of OlRyD, the
concerned private sector, ant; banks; (b) managers and technical stafE of WUOs; and (c) frmers.
5.    The training prograrnZ will comprise:
(a)    Two annual courses, each of two weeks duration, for: CNA (OLRyD) engineers of
district offlces, managers of WUOs, and technicians. The purpose of these courses is
to upgrade existing knowledge and to introduce new concepts about irrigation. A total
of 250 participants will be trained in a five-year period strting in 1993.
(b)    Six diploma courses for the same category of persons in the fields of: (i) general
irrigation; (ii) salinity and drainage; (iii) modernization of irrigation; (iv) land
levelling; (v) design and construction of small structures; and (vi) water and soil
analysis. The courses will last eight weeks each, and will be organized at existing
training institutions. A total of 475 persons will be trained.
(c)    Short courses, seminars, and study tours offered by institutions abroad, to extend the
experience of about 100 specialists.
(d)    Courses on enterprise management, accounting, credit management, and international
marketing for council members and managers of WUOs. About 20 such short-
duration courses will be organized in the IDs, benefitting some 400 participants.
(e)    A series of one-day courses on various aspects of irrigation such as water scheduling,
flow control, water measurement, drainage, nmintnance, problem solving, etc., for
operational staff of WUOs (e.g., ditchriders and water-masters). About 700 persons
will receive this type of training.
(f)    Field days for farmers. These would promote modern onr-fam irrigation technology
and increase farner awareness of good water management practices. The field days
will be organized by the Communication Units of OIRyD offices. Maximum use will
be made of the pilot and research projects in the IDs. About 7,000 farmers are
expected to participate in these events.
6.    The overall design and coordination of the training and professional development program is
under the responsibility of the Mexican Institute of Water Technology (IMTA), which will contract
for the services of established training institutions and universities in Mexico. A panel of experts was
constituted by IMTA to develop the content and training material of the different courses. Experts
from external training institutions, in particular the Irrigation Training and Research Center of
California Pblytechnic University, the University of ArizMna, and the Agrarian Reform and
Development Institute (IRYDA) of Spain, are being consulted in this process. Details of the training
component may be found in Working Paper C-II, Section 2. It is expected that FAO will continue to
assist IMTA in developing training. The experience of FAO assistance to IMTA and CNA in similar
training programs under IDSP is considered effective. The FAO group will also provide an ex-post
evaluation of the training program carried out every year.
Monitoring indicators for the training progrm are listed in Table J-1-l.A in Annex J. TORs
were prepared by experts .nentioned in pam. 6.



- 44                                          ANEX D
44ge 3 of 6
(c) Fgeld Monitoring and Soil Surveys (US$13.0 million)
7.    The OlRyD will have crucial functions in the implementation of the project. They will be
involved in data collection, field monitoring, implementation of the feasibility studies, and in detailed
design; they will conduct the negotiations with the WUOs concerning project implementation and
capital cost repayment; and they will be responsible for monitoring the technical and agronomic
performance of the IDs in general, and in the participating modules in particular.
8.    Under the current situation, physical and professional capacity of the OlRyD needs upgrading
in order to meet the requirements of the task, as OlRyD offices have suffered from under-funding and
under-staffing since the budget crisis of the early 1980s (paras. 1.8 and 2.3). Considerable up-
grading and strengthening is therefore required. This will be achieved through staff training, as
described above, and through material and financial support for: incremental operational costs;
laboratory and electronic equipment, and vehicles; field monitoring; and soil surveys. In addition,
CNA will commit sufficient budget to fulfill the funding gaps. Details of these items are presented
below and in Working Paper C-n, Section 2, Table 6.
(i) Incremental Operational Costs (US$3.6 million)
9.    Implementation of the project will substantially increase jhe responsibilities and the work-load
of the OIRyD offices. Despite that the Bank would not finance these costs, an analysis *ws done at
apprisal. New responsibilities include: (a) data collection and the analysis of physical, agronomic,
and social characteristics of the project area; (b) formulation and supervision of feasibility studies in
cooperation with consultants; (c) discussion and negotiations with WUOs or their representatives on
project options, implementation, and cost recovery; (d) approval of detailed designs prepared by
consultants; (e) supervision of works, quantity and cost surveying; and (f) field monitoring. These
tasks require additional qualified staff and funds for travel, per diem expenses, vehicle maintenance,
and office supplies. A breakdown of the incremental operational costs is provided in Working Paper
C-I, Section 3, Table 1.
(ii) Procureinen. of Laboratory and Electronic Equipment (US$2.2 million)
10.   The OIRyD will need to equip and improve their laboratory and monitory equipment. Three
different types of equipment will be required: (a) equipment for soil and water lab -ratories;
(b) electronic equipment, such as high resolution camcorders for aerial imagery, GPS navigation
systems for airbome surveys, computers, plotters and printers; this equipment is required for data
processing, calculation, design, GIS mapping, imagery treatment, and report writing; and (c) vehicles,
that is pick-up trucks for use in the field (not financed by the Bank).
(Il) Field Monitring Activities (US$6.4 million)
11.   Detailed and real-time field monitoring is required to establish the effects of the project
interventions and to ascertain the long-term sustainability of the participating IDs. The following will
be monitored:
(a)    Operation of the irrirgaon system and water use efflciency. The quality of the
irrigation service in terms of reliability, equity, and timeliness will be established in
sample areas. Water losses in the distribution system will be measured, and on-faim
water applications will be compared with crop water requirements. Operational and
technical factors that affect the perfDrmance of the system will be idrentified.



- 45                                    ANNEX D
Page 4 of 6
(b)    Salinity. The rise in the water table and the occurrence of secondary salinity
represents an increasing and serious threat to many districts, espec,ally to those
located on coastal plains. It is therefore vital that salinity be continuously monitored.
Sincc this monitoring has long been neglected and insufficient relevant data exist,
special activities are envisaged to establish the extent of soil salinity on a district and
module scale.
(c)    Quality of irrigation water and water table monitoring. Many aquifers are
overexploited and water quality is decreasing. Continuous monitoring of both these
features is required to identify critical areas so that mitigating actions can be initiated.
(d)    Productivity of irrigation. Agrononiic data on the yield of different crops, relative
water use efficiency, and productivity will be collected, processed, and analyzed.
Recommendations for improved agricultural practices will be issued through the
OIRyD Communication Units.
When necessary and cost effective, field monitoring will be supported by airborne scanning with high
resolution video cameras and computerized interpretation using GIS software. Details of the
monitoring activities are presentd in Working Paper C-Il, Section 4, Table 4.
(iv) Soil Surveys (US$0.8 million)
12.   The soil surveys will be completed during 1994-1995 and will be used in the field monitoring
and as a source of technical assistance to the farmers. Existing information on soil type and quality in
most of the "core area" is not appropriate to the sophisticated level of production now proposed. It is
therefore necessary to update existing infornation, using new soil classification methods and survey
techniques. Better understanding of the extent and sources of salinization is also needed.
13.   CNA will specify soil survey methodology and will supervise the proposed two-year program,
but actual surveying will be carried out by contract. Soil survey results will be digitized and
incorporated into the GIS monitoring system to be installed in each of the OIRyDs (Working Paper
C-I, Section 6, Table 1).
(J Conmmaunication and Partiipation (US$3.8 ndllion)
14.   The tran-fr of iDs to WUO control has profoundly changed the relationship between CNA
and farmers. In the transferred IDs under the project, the CNA DistAct offices will be providing
services to WUOs, rather than managing the irrigation system. These services will include:
providing information on institutional and organizational issues; and on agricultural markets, market
regulations, and finance; promoting technological change; offering specific technical advice
concerning main crops and water management at faum level; establishing a dialogue between the main
system operator and WUOs; and solving conflicts in project implementation decisions among users.
15.   The new functions require the establishment of Communication Units in the OIRyD District
offices. The project will therefore provide training, material, and support through:
(a)    Establishmnt of Communication Units in 17 OIRyD District offlces to satisf the
information needs of fanners and WUOs on a regular basis;



- 46 -                                  ANNEX D
Page 5 of 6
(b)    Traing of OIRyD Communication Units and WUOs. A total of 660 specialists,
technicians and managers will receive training in the use of infonnation technology.
Thirty specialists will receive training in consensus-building and conflict resolution;
(c)    Establishment of four Regional Information Offices which will operate data banks
and provide information for OlRyDs, WUOs, producers, consultants, and private
firms in irrigation, irrigated agriculture, marketing, and farm management; and
(d)    Dissemination of specific information on farm management, irrigation, marketing,
etc., through leaflets, bulletins, videos, radio, etc.
16.   IMTA's existing Communication Unit will be responsible for the overall planning and
coordination of the program. Details of the communication technology to be used have not been
detmined and will depend on the nature of the information provided. It is envisaged that a suitable
mix of general written material, specifically-generated material, and audio-visual media will be used.
IMI'A will be supported by a team of international experts (already working in Mexico under the
IDSP) provided through FAO. The FAO experts will: assist in the formulation of communication
concepts and the methodology; train national specialists in communication technology; and develop
and implement a monitoring and evaluation system for the component. The total cost of the sub-
component is estimated at US$3.8 million, including US$1.2 for FAO services. Details are provided
in Working Plaper C-II, Section 5.
(e) Adaptive Research (US$10.2 million)
17.   The adaptive research program will develop and/or test:
(a)    Low-cost solutions for the improvement of minor distribution systems, with the
objective of reducing water losses and increasing the flexibility of water use;
(b)    The manufacture of low cost polyethylene pipes using partially recycled material from
used pipes for improved surface and pressurized irrigation, with the objective of
increasing the uniformity and efficiency of water application;
(c)    Selection criteria for graviw and pressurized irrigation methods;
(d)    Cost-effecPve methods to prevent salinity and water-logging; and
(e)    Methods for the reclamation of saline soil or its alternative land use.
18.   The focus of the adaptive research prograw is on actual field problems in the IDs. For each
irrgation zone, a hierarchy of the most pressing problems will be established and research priorities
identified accordingly. Innovative frmers experiencing the same problems and having neighboring
holOdings will be identified and encouragea to participate in the program. Farmers will finance the
pennanen on-kfim improvements etailed in the research; operational costs and instrumentation
required for the research will be provided by CNA.
19.   The adaptive research program will be coordinated by IMIA but implemented in cooperation
witi other Mexican research institutions such as INIAP, as well as FIRA (demonstration units) and
relevant univrsities. It is estimated that actual implementation of the adaptive research program will



- 47 -                                    ANNEX D
Page 6 of 6
be completed in three years, but experimentation and evaluation will continue to the end of the project
period. Details of the research project may be found in Working Paper C-XI, Section 6.
(f) Technical Assitace (US$4.6 million)
20.   Technical assistance from international and national consultants whose TORs were discussed
at appraisal will be required for: (a) finalization of the design manual for mninor irrigation systems;
(b) review of the design of minor irrigation networks and on-firm improvements; (c) operationl
support to WUOs; (d) installation of an integrated GPS airborne survey and GIS; and
(e) establishment of software smart system for 10 crop production systems through neurocomputer
techniques (see para. 3.37). Further details are presented in Working Paper C-II, Section 7.
21.   A design manual for minor systems and small-hydraulic structures (TOR discussed at
appraisal) is required .j replace existing outdated manuals. An outline of the terms of reference for
developing this manual is presented in Working Paper C-VIII. CNA will prepare the manual
satisfactory to the Bank and make it available to the users about 4-5 months after the beginning of the
project but not later than January 1, 1995 (see para. 4.2(f)).
22.   In view of the limited experience of CNA and Mexican consultants with the type of work
required under the project, the services of a group of experts from the US Soil Conservation Service,
stationed at IMTA in Cuernavaca (now financed under PRODERITH II), will be used to provide
CNA with orientation, supervision, and quality control for the following services: (a) transr and
adaptation of irrigation technology; (b) review of frasibility studies and final design; (c) introduction
of modem monitoring and remote sensing metiods; (d) soil surveys, soil conservation and salinity
control; and (e) contribution to the design manual.
23.   The newly established WUOs will require operational support in the following areas:
(a) maint'nance of irrigation systems; (b) computer software for water delivery scheduling;
(c) computer sofiware for accounting and cost recovery; (d) automation of on-farm irrigation;
(e) on-demand water delivery. FAO is expected to provide the required services.
24.   The Advanced Resource Technology Program of the University of Arizona will assist CNA to
establish an integrated GPS/Airbome Survey and GIS Interpretation System. The system will be
used to monitor the maintenance and operational condition of the water delivery and drainage system,
sedimentation and aquatic plan growth, and crop conditions and crop yield. The systemn will,
whenever possible, be integrated with CNA's existing GIS system (see pan. 3.44).
25.   Eleven agronomic technological packages will be updated in order to establish a "smart"
system for crop management and identification of crop diseases. The effort will be supported by
neuro computer techniques, developed by the University of Arizona, Tl1cson, AZ (see para. 3.44).



ANNEX E
- 48 -                                  Page I of 8
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPOVEMENT PROJECT
MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORK IMROVEMENTS COMPONENT
I. Introduction
1.    This Annex describes the off-farm improvement activities to be implemented by the project under direct
supervision of CNA and with the participation of WUOs.
2.    The proposed development activities are based on 10 completed feasibility studies, covering a total area
of 92,000 ha. Estimates for the entire off-and on-farm civil works program have been extrapolated, and will
need to be confirmed after the completion of additional feasibility studies and detailed designs. Tle projec area
encompasses 14 districts with a total of 44 participating modules distributed in two groups: the first group
contains 10 districts and 11 modules, the second 15 districts and 33 modules. The first group covers 92,000 ha,
the second 302,000 ha (see working paper Off-Farm Improvements).
HI. Background
3.    In 1920, Mexico had about 1 million hectares under irrigation, mainly developed by the private sector.
Since then, most irrigation investments have been made under the Directorate of Irrigation, and then by the
National rrigation Commission (CNI). CNI was directed to developing irrigated farming, serving mainly the
social sector. Major hydraulic infrastructures began to be constructed, and large irrigated areas were expanded
to cover 3.0 million heuares by 1960. There was a substantial increase in irrigation development in the 1960's,
which added another 1.5 million hectares in irrigated land. This trend continued during the 1970's, before
coming to a near halt in 1982 as a result of the financial crisis. At that time, S.3 million hectares were under
irrigation. Currently, the total irrigated area in Mexico is a little over 5.2 million hectares, of which about 3.2
million ha or 60% are located in 79 districts. Nearly 90% of the land in these districts depend on water from
large storage facilities associated with generally complex systems of main, secondary, and tertiary distribution
canals, main drainage systems, roads, and other infrastructure.
4.    Dams, main and secondary canals, and main drains, which form the prominent infrastructure of the
irrigation and drainage network in a given district, are mainly concentraed in the North-Western and Eastern
regions, while mid- and small-sized infrastructures are located in the Central and Central-Western regions of the
country. Large irrigation projects are, from a civil engineering point of view, reasonably designed and
constructed, with dams, headwork, main conveyance systems, and major control structures. Shortfalls in design
and implementatio anre mainly due to a lack of design concerning agro-engineering aspects such as: crop-water
requirements, distribution canal capacity, low development of off- and on-farm irriget;on and drainage networks
(including control and measuring structures), and weak on-farm water management te._hnique. As a result, the
efficiency of the irrgation schemes is low. While the main conveyance efficiency average of 70% to 80%
compares well with international saudards, small-scale distibution efficiency is lower, S0%-60%, and on-farm
efficieacy is 70%-75%, holdins overa1l efficiency as low as 25%-35%.
S.    In addition, government efforts to develop irrigation were conentated on the development of large
stuctures, while the implementation of minor off- and on-fim irrigation networks was postponed or left to the
local authorities and/or the beneficiaies. Consequently, to some extent, many irrigation schemes were never
fully completed. In addition to the unfinished works, the maintenance of existng infastructure was increasingly
negected, due to inadequat funds and poor recovery of water charges. As a result, a large number of irrigation
schemes/modules require rhabilitation or defred maintenance. Thus in order to make full use of the existing
irrigation infs     , the Mexican government decided to give priority to the completion/rehabilitaon of
irrigation and drainage networks on those modules where infastrctr has been transferred to the farmers.



ANNEX E
- 49 _                                     Page 2 of 8
Off-farm Irrigation and Drainage Network
6.     In some of the participating modules included in the pioject area, the shortage of water to irrigate is a
common problem. This is due to optimistic planning assumptions concerning crop-water requirements and
expected water losses, both of which resulted in over-estimates of irrigation potential and political pressure to
expand the irrigated areas to maximize agricultural reform. As a result, canal systems have been laid out and
constructed over a much larger area than can be served effectively, with water distribution being both inequitable
and unreliable. This issue will be addressed by the project through water savings (which will result from
improvements in minor networks and on-farm systems, as well as better skills of trained farmers). Field
shortcomings commonly encountered within the existing irrigation and drainage distribution network include:
(a)    Insufficient control structures, particularly cross-regulators, to permit full command of the canal
at reduced flow;
(b)    No provision for regulation or measurement of flow at off-takes (turn-outs) from
laterals/distribution canals;
(c)    Incorrect position of canal outlets, most of which (50% to 60%) are still unlined;
(d)    Supply to an excessively large area from a single distribution canal;
(e)    Lack o-n maintenance, which has reduced the capacity of the canals and increase problems of
siltationi, erosion, and weed growth.
7.     In addition, the eAisting distribution network infrastructures impose restrictions on the flexible, reliable,
and equitable distribution of water.
8.     Similarly, there seem to be insufficient secondary and collector drains to provide drainage outlets to farm
units. As a result, 10% to 15% of the land within the irrigation modules suffers from water-logging and salinity
problems. Indications are that this problem wil grow rapidly if no special efforts are made to address it.
Im. Project Development State
9.     The existing information on irrigated modules indicates widespread awareness of the problems
associated with low irrigation efficiency, poor water management, land degradation, decreased productivity and
reduced usable water. These concerns are shared by both CIN  technical staff and the farmers, and are
expressed in the government's water strategy, which places sustainable production among the cental objectives
of irrigation development and farm production. To introduce better water management as a regular practiCe
aimed at developing sustainable farming systems, it is proposed to support the WUOs in implementing the
necessary improvement in the minor irrigation and drainage network. These improvements wil reduce water
loss, permit the more timely distribution of the water, and allow the irrigation of a large area.
1n.   TI order to reflect these cnsidermions, the Project will aim to ensure that the WUOs take primary
responsibility for implementing the required work. However, since WUOs have been established only recently,
and their financial and technological capacity is limited, strong support from the CNA is envisaged.
Implementation of the project will be based on the following criteria:
(a)    The WUO, after considering proposals made in the feasibility study and construction design of
its module, will sign "formal agreements' with CNA, satisfactory to the Bank, where: (i) the
targets of physical works will be defined; (ii) the responsibilities of the two parties will be
established, and the amounts and timetable for the recovery of investments will be agreed upon.



ANNEX E
- 50 -                                    Page 3 of 8
(b)    The off-farm work will be fully fnnced by the CNA, and the WUO will reimburse 50% of the
costs in real terms (see SAR - Cost Recovery - Section G) through procedures and periods to be
established in each case (10 to 20 years).
(c)    The WUO will have the option of undertalng the work through local contractors or by force
account using machinery and materials provided by the CNA, and following rules described in
the 'operations manual." In the case of force account CNA will finance labor and other
operational costs like fuel, lubricants, parts, etc.
IV. Project Design Considerations
11.   The component's general objective is to improve irrigation techniques and to upgrade irrigation
efficiency as an important part of farming practices in Mexico, in order to increase yields and revenues and to
encourage sustainable agricultural production.
12.   The irrigation and drainage network will include the technical modifications required to give the system
the flexibility needed for better water delivery at the appropriate quantities including quality of maintenance.
Thus, the distribution system for off- and on-farm irrigation networks will be modernzed and/or completed in
order to accommodate the new agricultural plans required to meet with market demand.
13.   With respect to canal structures, the possibility of replacing upstream control with downstream control
structes will be analyzed. A system of monitorng water delivery and flow rates will be introduced, and the
slopes and sides of some canals will also be changed. In addition, the possibility of substituting current check
gate strres with other types more able to maintain a constant water level will be also explored. Depending
on the importance of the structures, in size as well as in function, the new structures may be of the following
type:
(a)    Pico de Pato (Duck's Beak);
(b)    Automatic, hydraulically-operated for up and/or down-stream control;
(c)    Automatic, electromechanically operated, with a 1tcal control through the use of
microprocessors for up and/or downstream control.
14.   Irrigation efficiency at off- and on-farm irrigation modules will be upgraded by introducing canal lining
techniques or low pressure pipe systems with the objective of reaching, at full project development, about 50%
to 60% of overall efficiency. This is expected to increase the actual overall efficiency (ranging from 24% to
34%) to a much better level, saving 25-30% of the water currenty used. Monitoring will be provided by the
OIRyD (see SAR para. 3.17 and Annex D, item (c), Field Monitoring). At the farm plot level, the improvement
wil be focused on new irrigation methods, such as: sprinkler, drip, microsprinkler, and gated pipes, as well as
land levelling, the modernizing of existing structures, and the introduction of water measuring devices for future
volumetric delivery of water to the farm outlet. Land reclamation, as well as subsurface drainage and access
roads will be included, in order to fully develop the on-farm system.
V. The Implementation Program
15.   The main activities under this component will include:
(a)    Designs and engineeing sees
The prepation of the designs will require improved or new topographic information on the
existing canals, drains, and roads. In most cases, this information will consist of longitudinal
profiles with sections every 20 meters. This work can easily be contracted to local teams. The



ANNEX E
- 51 -                                     Page 4 of 8
terms for such contracts should be prepared by the OlRyD, and will be subject to WUO
approval. Alternatively, WUO's may plan to do the work themselves. In that case, the work
should be technically and economically acceptable to CNA.
A similar procedure will be used for the preparation of construction designs. These will be
undertaken by local firms through bids prepared by the CNA. Terms of reference for detailed
design and a Manual on Small Hydraulic Structures have been prepared within the framework of
this project.
Contractors will be encouraged to use computer software that automatically calctLates all the
needed elements. Designs should be sent to the PSU for approval by the CNA and the Bank.
The cost of the surveys and designs will be fully financed by the CNA, and the WUO will
reimburse 50% as established in the formal agreement. It is estimated that the cost of surveys
will be on the order of US$7/ha.
(b)    Off-Farm Construction Works
Off-farm activities will include all the works necessary for rehabilitating or completing the
irrigation and drainage network in each module included in the project. Main construction items
consist of: (i) Lining distribution ditches to reduce water losses for about 4,800 km of ditches;
(ii) installation of about 400 km of low pressure pipe system. This work is required to substitute
for existing open canals, in order to reduce water losses and to introduce new surface irrigation
methods; (iii) installation of about 16,100 regulating and measurement structures. This item
would include structures such as: modular gauges, up- and down-stream water-level control
structures, automatic gates operated hydraulically or mechanically, and other structures wbich
will be specified after detailed design is completed; and (iv) installation of 180 km of collector
drains. In addition, about 600 km of access roads will be upgraded or rehabilitated.
Working Ptrogram and Cost
16.    The works m this component will be implemented over 6 years, starting in mid-1993 and fnishing at the
end of 1999.
17.    Physical targets are shown by year in Tables 2, 3 and 4. A more detailed distribution of annual works
by district, and for groups 1 and 2, are presented in specific Working Paper c-rn tables for each sub-project
(Table C-im-5 to Table C-II-19). These tables will be updated after feasibilit studies are completed.
18.    Table S shows cost estimates and the distribution by category of civil works for the off- and on-farm
irrigation and drainage network. The total cost of these activities, excluding construction materials and the
capital cost of machines and equipment, is US$88.3 million for off-farm works. Details of cost estimates,
diaggregted by districts and by groups I and 2, are presented in Tables C-III-21 to C-II-37 of Project Working
Paper C-In.
Construction of the Works
19.    The WUO, with proper design for the execution of the construction works and with the cooperation and
supervision of CNA staff, would be in position to undertake the construction works either by force-account or
with the help of small local contractors, or a partial combination of both, depending on each module's particular
cicumns_ vis-a-vis the comparative advantages. CNA staff will have the technical responsibility of
ceraifyig that the works are executed according to specifications. With the aim of reducing the costs of the
civil works, the CNA could make a bulk purchase of construction materials such as cement, steel rods, and any
aggregates, as well as equipment such as PVC pipes, water measuring devices, valves, gates, etc. The materials



-  52  -                                    ANNEX B
Pap 5 of 8
and equipment will be provided to the WUO at cost, with considerable savings resulting from the larg-scale
puhasing. ITe WUO will rdmbumse 50% of the cost On real trms) of the maters and equipment for off-
fam constuction works.
Unit PAco of Civi Work
20.   The averae unit pices used for the cost estimates of the differnt Items were tan from the District
Offices and refer to the last contas given to contractors duting December 1992. The following prices were
used for:
Off-far    eon Work
Lining of ditches                        US$   20,410/km
Low pressure pipe systm                  US$   18,6001km
Control and meaur  structures            US$   96Unit
Collector Drains                         US$   10,220/km
Mor open drains                          US$   50/km
Acoess roads                             US$   38,330
21.   The unit price for 'lining of canals' assumes that a new canal will be buit rather tuhn an exist  one
lined. This appoach Is realist since intertng the irrigation service wil be very cosdy. Contrctig a
temporary canal to mainta th  igtio ser*;oe while lining the existig canal may be as expensive as
constucing entirely a new one. Nevertheless, the cost of these two alteratives should be checked when
prparng the detailed designs.
22.  ITh above-mentioned unit pdces are cost pices, and do not include dth contractor's profit and sales tax.
Reducdons are posible when t  WUO exeutes the work direcdy due to thoir inistalled capacity In place (avoid
mobiliaion) and tax eemption grned by law (appoximely 1S%-20%). On the other hand, inefficiencies
could occur and in this case would party offset the possible cot treductions.
23.   Unit costs of constaction mateils are as follows:
Off-farm  imprh mens
(a)    Lning of canal
Cement                                   USs   120r
Sted Rods                                US$   4S2/T
Gravel                                   USS   1S/rn'
Sand                                     US$   15/1n'
(b)    Low presu  PVC pipe of differen sizes, ave     cot is US $16,000/km.
(6)    Collector drais made of concrete pipe of difn sizes, avera  cost is US $S,0Aa/km.
(d)    Masuig and coontol structures of diff    types, averae cost is US $600/pieoe.
24.  ITe quatites provided in the following tables are esimates and should be up-daed upon completion of
do reevant constrcton dedps  of the moduls of Groups I and U.



ANNEX E
53   -                                      Page 6 of 8
MEXCO
ON-FARM AND MNOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS DMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Lst of Prtdpatldng irigadon Disics
cluding Preatected Modules for Feasibty Studies
GROUP I                  GROUP2JV               TOTAL
| IlWGATION DISrIRCT
Modul.    Area (ba)      Module       Area (ha)     Area (ba)
Rio Colorado                       2         6,460           6          6,230
1    11,230
3         10,590
4          8,240
ToWal                6.460                     36,290         42,750
Rio Yaqui                         K61        8,390       Cocomque       4,460
4P10        2.080          4           9,835
4P12        4,900          6           8,836
8          8,034
k64         2,742
Totl                15,370                     33,907        49,277
Rto Mayo                           8         3,770          11          5.168
12         7.031
13          6,545
Total                3,770                     18,744        22,514
El Carrizo                         2         8,150           3          13,580        21,730
El Fuene                          11-2      18,900          11-1        14.260
1-1        19,620
Total               18,900                     33,880         52,780
Cutiacn                          IV-2       11,840          11-2        16,020
V-I         15,800
1-3        22,520
Toall               11,840                 _   54,340         66,180
La Lagun                          VI         7,340          Xl;         4,920
V          4.46D
Xa          4,630
XVI          5,400
Total                7,340                     19,410         26,750
Delicias                           3         6,290           4          7,810
2          6,210
5         11,517
Total                6,290                     25,537         31,827
Alto Lanm                        Jaral       6,690          IV          12,660        27,740
VI[         8,390
Total                6,690                     21,050
Pabellhn                                                     1          8,400          8,400
Guasav_                                                     11-2        17,730        17,730
IZa=ro CirdS  (APsZsngan)                                   10          10,060        10,060
Eajo Rh San Juan                          _-2                            8,820         8,820
Bajo Rio BraU                                              M-4          23,190        23,190
subtotal     it        84,810          32        324,938        409,748
UnlDenfled Moduleas/              -            -        __               9,000         9,000
TOTA' ;:  _W L  ,11  8'4.102       -- --  :-. --333,438        418,748
1/      Group H modules are an indicative list Actual modulestaressfetc. can be modified in tight of prpartion and other sdies.
2/       Subjeat to pritor authorization by die Bank in accordance with die poviSiOnS of Seon 3.14 of the Guaante Aemma



54 -                                    ANNEX E
Page 7 of 8
MEXCO -
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRIUGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMEN PROJECT
Minor Networks Component
Table 2. Summary Estimate of Physical Quantitles of Civil Works by Group
OMPONENr AND A                              OST (1)       GROUW I M      GROUi 13)         TOTAL
SUBCOM NE                        ItSWOOo           ,891   H      3U10 HA          394,000
OFF FARM lMlROvg4T
tinin of cdites                       Km    20.41            1.012          3,7U             4,800
Low Pr    pipestm                             18.60            87            313              400
Con!t and             es              No      0.96          3.469    U       631            16,100
Collectr drins                        KM    10.                29             151             180
Minor opn dais                        Km      0.05            700           1300             2,000
Ace mads                             |Km    38.33             127            473              600
Summary EWmate of Physical Quantities of Cvil Works(l)
Table 3. Schedule of Implementaion
COoMPMT AONENT D                                       IAY  , O,,
SUBCOMPONEPRY                uo9                                   199    199    TOTALa
OFF FARM 34PROVE -D(..
Liigof                                 Km      96    480    SU    1,440   1.440    480    4,8O
L1pes i   pipeipSy                     Km       8      40     72    120      I       40      400
Corl aud tmmln  s                      No     322   1.610   2.898   4,W30   4.830   1,610   16400
Collcmordrajs --           -m                   4             32      $4     54      18      180
binor open dmai                        Km      40    200    360    600    600    200    2.000
ACcustomb                     .K               12      60    to0    U8       180     60      d
,        ,      .         .          _       _        _a



ANEX
- 55  -                                  Page 8 of 8
=EXCO
ON-FAIRM AdD MINOR IRRIGATION NETWtORS IEMVEMENT PROWET
Sumy  Esat o Psical Quant   of Cdv  Works by Groups
Table 4. Schedule at mpleentao
Group 1 Ns. 81,890
Group 2 Has. 312,110
COamAqD                             I r                   A
097 NVMAME13OVEMM=
LIning of                               Sto       I.au  I       low i -       4
am* Ip                                             41. I  I012
agoo I                                  t    n      e     m                    a
Oou2                                      _      n4 9           S 4,          s__
:   e   ti Ii                              7    347  tin      m3.4
Km 2t    7      J I2     2S 9t
2                        -      --t3 _  14    97  UV          Z 2   X 1
ACOMsMS                         Km       101   Si m03   isi   LU    i  ON       00
OGop I                                 27    191  tvt   .471  18J*473
G4ac oann qt.au2ODo     -  _modg up. dw y.asy d_ Is.iont
a,. ot l..)~ tondlo   m pornooms of Ochedules.
Mior Networks Compone
Table S. Sum           Cost Esmate of CI Works Exlud    Material
and Capita Cost of Machinery and Equipment (MSS'00)
CObUNONE4T AND 
SUWRO&WONENT                 T1911951AL19119.
Gp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              I
a~~~ f l                                        - l t   G  h s
OFT FARM CtQOYEWT?                          2,109                        26,478    34452      ,43
Lkinin s dce                                 1,454    2,67      4. 173    17,506    25.419    7.131    58.354
LOW Ptgas m  pipe ysm                          35                221        288       28         32       960
Cow    and maoM swuom                         137      695      1,066     1.642     1.52        457     5520
Collecmdmins                                   21       so        100       112        72.       16       401
bnowopeudmslns                                  2       10         is        30        301       101      100
Acces tua                                     460     2400      4,140     6,900     6.900      2.300    23.000
_                                                                                 I ,
[III UOMNO DfIa   A"T2ON                                                  3   II
TOTAL*                                  *1    1,4Sl 2,306j1         4N         J1  37.496    112311   101,0
(1) 3us cmn widhou IA at December1i992.
M latdmuWy 19941 euiuy 1999.



ANNEX F
-  56  -                                  Page I of 7
MEACO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRIGATON Nl'?WORKS  IPAROVEMENT PROJECr
MA11NfNANCE AND CONSTRUCTION MAC&           Y SW-COMFOPT
1.    Poor peformanoe, the incomplete status of minor irrigaton and drainage networks, as well as the lack
of the aopriat O&M are evident in most of the selected modules. This trd must be reversed in order to
improve water efficiency and management, and thus  tify cwpping and improve producdvity of the irnigated
area. Curnty, excessive deposits of sediments and vegetation growth are adversely affecting efficiecy in the
irrigation and drainage neVSork. There is gener consensus tha one of the main reasons for the present poor
performance is a lack of an appropra  mix of machinery and equipment for construction and mainteac
operations. To address this problem, an adequate mix of equipment has been included in the projet for both
groups of modules (1 and 2).
2.    An  pproia  mix of modern, light, and efficient machiney for project implementation was seleced
durig prration. This mix is subdivided into three grups: (a) Construcon mad nery and equipment for
minor off- and on-farm irrgation and drainag network, for a total of 607 units (front loaders; back-hoe
excavators; lining canal machines; dainage pipe laying madhines; dump truck; motorgades; open ditchers; and
equipment such as cement mixers, water tan  and diesel pumps); (b) Land leleing equlpment to level about
36,000 ha of land, moving 500-700 m3/ha, and about 84,000 ha of land, moving 300-500 m3/ha. This equipment
compises about 185 units, (crawer tracors, towed and self elled scrapers, land planes, laser-assisted
equipment); and (c) maintenance equipment for the irrgation and drainage network, totalling about 79 units
(hydrauic arms, mowing buckets, rotary mowers, and cycle trimmer equipment).
3. Tables 1 to S show details of machinery by type of work to be performed, and alloation by district and
gwrups. Technical critera for the slecton of the diffeet machiney and equipment are derived from the
completed to date feasibility studies. 11is list should be up-ated after feasibility studios and constctdon
designs have been completed for the entre project ara.
4.    The total estimated cost' is about US$61.0 million, and comprises: (a) US$32.0 million for the
group; (b) US$17.0 million for the land levell  group; and (c) US$12.0 milion for the
group. Tables 6 to 12 (Project Wodng Paper C-V) show detaled costs by type of equipment,
ditributed by districts and groups.
S.    Additional unforeseen activiies of the subcomponent are not included in Tables F-3 and F-4. It would
include items like: (a) costs for minor machinery and equlpment that may be included after construction
dedgns for groups 1 and 2 have been completed; and (b) acdvities related to Training and Technical Assistance
of CNA and WUOs which would include: tcnica visits to machinery and equipment factories; technical
for deaed planning of machnery requirements; and traing of WUO technical and mechanical staffs
and maiey operaors. These costs ame expected to be endrly covered by physical contingencies.
6.    Acquisiton are expected to be performed thrugh 3 or 4 major packages of ICB, and three additional
smaIle acquisitons under LCB (for light constructon equipment such as motor-pump and cement mixers). The
first biddng packe should be tendered in 1994, and all equipment and machiny ae expoete to be in place
before the end of 1997.
7.    The quantities of mahiner and the adequawe mix will be rwvsedlconfirmed, upon completion of the
rlvant *asty studies and constuction deigns.
Y      Inludinlg f*gh, iuranmc, tansport and s    pats
a A number of mobil worksbops as well as accesories would be included in this item.



- 57.                          ~ANNE( F
M    ICO                                             Page 2 of?
ON-FARM AND IOR IMRIGATION NET WORK D!PROVmENT PROJECT
Sunmy AEsdmae of Equipment by Groups
Schedule Of lmpldatlou
Grow 2 Hk. 312,110
Table F-I
ITrES                                       y    E           A         a               
to                      i      aal ~~~~TOTAL
-                                                                                 I
____                                      ~~~~~~ ~~~ .mm
CONSTRUCION EQU_PWT _ )
Front loader                                            4       14       10        5                          33
Group I                                                4       4        2                                   10
Group 2                                                                                        -            2 5  23
Back hoo excavator                                       S      70       14        7                          46
Group I                                                5       4        2                                      11
Group 2                                                        16      12        7             -S
Lining canal machine                                    3       11        8        4                         26
Group !                                                3       5        2                                   10
Group 2                                                        6        6        4                          16
Drainage plpe layhg machne for deep drain                1       4        3        2                          10
Group                         1                        I                                                     I
Group 2                                                        4        3        2                           9
Drainage pipe laying mac8ne for shallow draln           2        6        4        2                          14
Group !                                                2       1        1                                    4
Group2 ?                                                                3        2                          10
Dump truck                                              12      44       31       16                         103
Group !                                               12       6        2                                   20
Group 2                                                       38       29       16                          83
Concret cast machine for canalets                       3       10        7        4                         24
Group !                                                3       4        2                                    9
Group 2                                                        6        S        4                           S
Open drain ditcle (DONDI)                               3       10        7        4                         24
Group I                                                3       4        2                                    9
Group 2                                                        6                 4                          is
Cement mixer                                           21       76       53      27                          177
Group I                                               21       It       5                                   37
Group 2                                                       65       48       27                         140
Open ditcher hydraulic excavator                        2        9        6        3                          20
Group !                                                2       2        1                                    S
Group 2                                                        7        5          .         _5
Motograder                                              3       10        7        4                          24
Group 1                                                3       4        2                                    9
Group 2                                                        6        5        4         I                I
Water tanks on wheds                                     6      23       16        8                          53
Group I                                                6       4        2                                   12
Group 2                                                      u19       14        8    -                     41
Diesel pump                                              6      23       16                                   53
Group I                                                6       4        2                                   12
Group 2                                                        19      14        a                          41
C:AtRPOfMACHUM             VM.1"1
(1) Fm Jl 14 to Ja*   1"9.
(2) Madson egiuoB. We is hd..I be ubdW .9m dMelIm duaim mn eeugn$g
aw qwiiWn dpdxm   oupa  wba wn



-58-                                          ANNE F
Page 3 of 7
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND M[NOR IREUGATION NETWORK TMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Suumaxy Estlmate of Equipment by Groups
Schedule of niplemaon
Group I    a.  81,890
Grop 2  Rm  31,110
Table F-2
flr f                                      Y        E       A        R
. j                                                la TOTAL
____________ ____________ __________19________           199   I_ 29 __      1998 !   "999
*= - -8 . ....-.. 
LAND LEVELING EQUIPMENT (2)
Crawler tractor                                         S      19       13       6                          43
Group 1                                               S       4        2                                  11
Group 2                                                      IS       11       6                          32
Scraper selfpropeUed                                    5      19       13       6                          43
Group I                                               5       4        2                                  11
Group 2                                                      IS       11       6                          32,
Wheel tractor                                           4      14       10       5                          33
Group I                                               4       4        1                                   9
Goup 2                                                       10        9 -                                24
Laud plane                                              4      14       10       5                          33
Group !                                               4       4        1                     .             9
&roup 2                                      ~~~~~~~10 _    9   S  _:_        _24
Group 2                                                      to912
Towed scrar                                             4      14       10       S                          33
Group I                                               4       4        1                                   9
Group 2                                                      10        9       S                          24
MAINTENANCE EQUlPMENT (2)
Rotary mower                                            5      16       12       6                          39
Group I                                               5       4        2                                  11
Group 2                                                      12       10        6                         28
Cycle timer                                             S      17       12       6                          40
Group !                                               5       4        2                                  it
Group 2                                                      13       10        6                         29
C;RTMOPPR'MACH1NZ          93706417T
(1) Fum Jul 1904 to a* 1999.
(2) Miso eihnao. THe E dould be mevhad ah. 4dah doans - mplded
md sifinfan psad      a.I a of eqIiio be boan easl



- 59 -
ANNEX P
MEXICO                                                 Page 4 of 7
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORK DMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Summary Estimate of Equipment by Groups
Schedule of Implemetattion
Group 1I H. 81,890
Grmp 2 Has. 312,110
Table F-3
I  - w=rE    __I~,~1:SACO                                               _                                            .TOTALj
cONsTRUCroN EQUWMba4T (3)j
Front lsder                                      46      1S4      644      460      230               .         1,51
Group I                                                184      184       92                                   460
Group 2                                                         460      3S       23                          1 058
BEk hoe aexvatr                                  43      21S      860      602      301           _             1,918
roup 1                                                 215      172       86                                   473
Group _2  6-8                                                            516 _ 30t_  1.50-
Lining anal mainO                                        360    1,320      960      480                        3,120
Group 1                                                360      600      240                                  1.200
Group 2                                                  .      70       720      480                         1.920
Drunage pipe layig madaus for deep d0n                    0 0    2,0o00  S,00    1,000                         5,000
Group 2                                                500                         .                           fO0
Group                                        -       -        2.00      1.500  1.000               -.0
Drainag pipe laytb g m-a    for   low drain    180       360    1,080      720      360                        2.520
Group I                                                360      180      18o                                   720
Group 2                                                         900      540      360                         1 8W
Dump tuack                                       40      480    1,760    1,240      640                        4,120
Group 1                                                480      240       80                                   800
Group 2                                              -        .J20   .I160 I      640                         3.-g
Concret cat macbine tar ca7lets                  25               250      175      100                          600
Group 1                                                 75      100       50        .                          225
Group 2                                                  .      150      125      too                          37-
Open draia ditcbe (DONDI)                         s      225      750      525      300                         1,800
Grup 1                                                 225      300      150                                   675
Grup 2                                                          45-      37S .                      . - -
Cementmkur                                        3       63      228      159    81                             531
Group 1                                                 63       33       15                                    111
Group 2                                                         19-       I" 14           -        -           420
Open ditcher bydraulk *PcaYao                    Is      170      765      S10      255                         1,700
Group I                                                1        170       85                                   425
Group 2                                                         595      425      255                      1.275
hlotograder                                      S6      258      860      602      344                        2,064
Group 1                                                258      344      172                                    774
Group 2                                      -                  Sd        430     34                          1.290
Water tWes owbes                                  3       18       69       48       24                          139
Group I                                                 18       12        6                                    36
Group 2                                                          57       42       24-                          123
Die5e pump                                        6       36      138       96       48                          318
Group 1                                                 36       24       12                                    72
Gmup 2                                                          114       84       48                          246
.__                            _                     S     I   -    '   I       I                         
TOTAL OF coSRmuCTION EQ UVM                        |2,944   I0,724    7,59t   4,1631                          25,428 
Group 1                                               2944    2359      1168                                  6,471
Goup 2                                                         8365     6429     4163                        18,957
TOTAL O~~~ CONSTRUCTION EQU~~~MENT  2,944   10,724    7,5974,163                             tN 
(1) Exczhi  sas ftxa, Wm ad _mupostam   MP               a    1993.
(2) Frm July 199$ to Jul  1999.
(3) Msion    sAt Ihb s d   a Azid be etind afe duW dsis an oomaad
ad              adi peefontap n o eui_pt  boo boe  ooaflntAd.



- 60 -                                              ANNEX F
Page 5 of 7
ONARM AND UUOR IRRATION =MORK BhNROVEMMT PROD=
6nwp 1 N. St.S9
Grop 2  Km. 312,110
Table F-4
iEG                       UMT               Y    E    A    R                                          .
._   _    __      _    _. _         _      COSIJ                           I i                      o   TOTAL
_LUL.  1994       1995 1 199  _1997           1991    1999
LA  LEVELING EQUIPMENT(3                                     -
Crawler tUctow                                 120     600    2,280    1,560      720                       S,160
Group I                                              600      480      240                                1.320
Grou 2                                                       1 .800  1.320      720                       3.840
SCrapr self prope4led                           90     450    1,710    1,170      S40                       3,870
Group 1                                              450      360      1S0                                  990
Group 2                                                      1.350     999      540                       2.880
Whee tractor                                   7S      300    1,050      750     375                        2,475
Group                                                300      300       7S                                  675
Group 2                                                       7750     675      375                        1.800
Land plane                                     IS       60      210      150      75                          495
Grop 1                                                60       60       is                                  135
Group?2                                     -       -!Q  _ 13                    75                         360
Towed scraper                                  S0      200      700      500      250                       1,650
Group '                                              200      200       50                                  450
Group 2                                                       500      450      250                        1,200
=~~~~ -                                                       _    _         -_ .   -   .        -._| ....
TOTAL 0f LAND LEVEIJNG EQUIPMENT                      1,610    5,950    4,130    1,960                     13,6;0
j    Grup I                                         1610    1400       560                                3,570
Group 2                                                      4550    3570    1960                        10,080
MAINTEANCE QUI                 )I
Rotary mower                                  160      o00    2,560    1,920      960                       6,240
Group t                                              8o0    640        320                                1.760
Group 2                                            1         .920    1.60       960                       4.480
Cycle trtnrer                                 17 390    1,326            936      468                       3,120
Group !                                              390      312      156                                  858
Group?2                                                      1,014     780      468                       2,262
TOTAL OF MAIfNfrEANCE EQUIbPMET                   |  1,190    3,886    2,856    1,428                       9,360
I    Gfczqp I                 r                      1190     952      4761                               2:618
Gnsp 2                                                          29314     2380 |   1428                1 6.742 
C:RIThPOPaVMACHIN87        930706
(3) Mia       &     TI i       wi aM It de pAm at         ac m3.
(a) lSog Iiy 19tA to  yI* li.
m3 dosbcz6 lMdgaW    1/2 *knsldn of I3Da  b00edei ban i eargm  pi



MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRIMGATION NETWORK IKMROVEMENT PROJECT
Estmated MaIatenasce EApIpments 1) aknd Disrbution by Csroups
l"mima"fal-    J.        I 40    I J1   Am I-c ai I    stInt [CU.e.    tAMI  W i I   M                  I raufI CMKI -UacIUN                       moI s            
CiAWUSUACIO5                4~~~~A  ILA       3t        &t       U.1       516        4&                     2        ,                   a                   0
-W#ISL nj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b* ~~~~2                                                4                                                522                          B
C..,,              ~         ~        ~~~I  S    I                   B                                      I         I         I                                     I        
LAND KANg                   4~~~~   9           I         5                             C                                                                                      Is  000   
__________       I         2                  S                   ~~~~~                                                ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  2  'e
?OMIWSSCflAMlS                                            I          2       2                                                                                        if  225        d   1
I S"aOK" W%  ap*  W.m1   5 ad *f                     5                   I        I                   00b                                   00
C*soy I-ti l lIaB55t40.k"f an* =aftwecSOm   X*o  Mh Cu3naot.  aSp*m o tcit          af
I wbgSI  m4a4 ISO IIP,
3) Q^%*s AM uldda "AMw sAn k.skkv Oamh Wo ua2 das &sing Mms bee of*t.sld



-62 -                           ANNEX F
Page 7 of 7
4q 
ll   i, g i i R Vi                     9  
|   0   t   _  7                          X | }  ! 1. 
t-   ii@  
I Me1-           J'i;1
.1                     4~~~9
di~~~~~~~~~~



- 63 -                                   ANNEX G
Pagp 1 of 6
MFMCO
ON-FARM AND MINOR MRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVENET PROJECT
ON-FAItM DMROV1MENTS COMPONENT
L Introduction
1.    This Annex describes the on-farm improvement acdvities to be implemented by the project under
the direct supervision and with the participation of farmers.
2.    The estimate of these acdvities is based on 10 feasibility studies completed to date, covering a
total area of 92,000 ha. Estimates for the on-farm civil works progam have been extrapolated and need
to be confirmed after completion of the additional feasibility studies amd detailed designs. The total
project area encompasses 14 districts with a total of 44 particpating modules distibuted in two groups:
the first group contains 10 districts and 11 modules, the seoond 15 districts and 33 modules. The first
group covers 92,000 ha and the second 302,000 ha, for a total area of 394,000 ha (see Table G-1).
11. Badkground
On-Farm Infrastructure Improvement
3.    The on-farm irrigation network suffers from incomplete works, mainly ditches, control and
measurement stnru , canal lining, piping, land levelling, and drains. For the most part, the ditch
networks are built, but about 45% of them remain without ling. Measurement of water at farm gates
and control stues for farm ditches are nonexiten. The system's flexibiity to deliver water as
requested by the user, at short notice and in a needed quantities, is advasely affected by the curmt
capacity of the canals.
4.    Since it iSvrually impossble to balance the rates of flow supied by the canal with actual
demand, users located at the end of the canals receive less water than those located on the medium or
high part of the canal. Generally, water delivery is carried out through a rotational system at Intervals
greater than those required for normal crop growth.
S.    In addition, current water level control of the off-farm system is based on up-stream stues
because of existing check regulating gates. Thus the flow delivered from a distibution amal to farm
ditches varies constantly dudng irrigation, and this sgnificantly affects the application of water to the
fields. Aside from all the issues mentioned above, fain units which require land levelling constitute 20%-
30% of the total farm area, thus affectg the efficiency of water disibution.
6.    In all irrigation modules, deficiencies in the on-farm drainage network mean that farmers face the
problem of salinization and deteioraion of land. It is estimated that this problem affecs around 30-50
thousand ha within the project area.
7.    The simultaneous constrints mentioned above heavily reduc the rdiability of the irrigation
system. This, coupled with the lack of agricltu  technology, means tha the productivity of irrigated
crops is up to 60% lower than coud be acieved with more efficient methods.
Estimated Quanides
8.     on-Fam Work: This category of works includes: (a) LIng and/or piping farm ditches for
6,000 km and 800 km respectively; (b) installaton of 22,500 ha of sprinkler irgation, 15,750 ha of drip



- 64 -                                   ANNEX G
Page 2 of 6
irrigation, and 5,500 ha of microspfinlder irrigation; (c) instalation of gate pipes for new methods of
irdgation in about 16,350 ha. Land levelling would be also performed in about 120,000 ha, and
subsurface drainage methods implemented in 6,200 ha. New electrification of about 250 wells will also be
completed.
Working Program and Cost
9.    A period of 6 years is estimated to implement works in this component, starting in the middle of
1993 and fiWishing at the end of 1999.
10.   Physical targets encompassing distribution by year of the execution of the works are shown on
Table G-2 and 0-3. More detailed distributions of annual works by district, and for groups 1 and 2, are
presentd in specific woridng tables (Table E-4 to Table E-19 inclusive, preeted in the Working Papers
secton (see Annex E-10) of each sub-project which will be updated after feasibility studies are completed.
11.   Table 0-4 shows cost estim   and the distribution by categories of civil works for the on-farm
irgatton and dmnage network improvements. The total cost of these activities, excluding materals, is
US$235.5 million for on-farm works. Detailed cost esimates, disaggregated by distrcts and groups 1 and
2, are presented in Tables E-21 to E-37, as above.
Construction of the Works
12.   The farmers will be responsible for the construction of their on-farm works. With the aim of
reducing the costs of the civil works, the CNA could make a bulk purchase of construction materals such
as cement, steel rods, and any aggregates, as well as equipment such as PVC pipes, water measuring
devices, valves, gates, etc. The materias and equipment wfll be provided to the farmers through the
WUO at cost, with considerable savings resulting from large-scale purchms. The farmers will reimburse
100% for the construction materials used for on-farm constuction works, thrugh water fees.
Unit Prics of Civil Work
13.   The aveae unit prices used for estimating the cost of different items were taken from the District
Offices, and refer to the last contracts 8i:en to contractors during December 1992. The following prices
wer used:
On-farm Implementation Works
Lining of ditches                 USS   13,830/km
Low pressure pipe system          US$   10,630/km
Land levelling                    USS   330/ha
Gated pipes                       USS   770/ha
Sprer irWigation                  US$   1,730/ha
Drip irrigation                   US$   2,140/ha
Mlcrospriner                      US$   1,950/ha
Electrification of pumps          USS   12,000/m
Subsurface drainage               US$   1,570/ha
14.   The unit price for "lining of canals" assumes that anew canal will be built rather than the existng
one Uned. This approach is realitic since interrupidg the irrigation servioe wil be very costly.
Constcing a temporary canal to maintain the irrigation service while the existing one is lined may be as
expensive as constuctg an entirely new one. Nevertheless, the cost of these two alteraives should be
dheced when ptaring the detailed designs.



- 65 -                                     ANNEXO
Papg 3 of 6
15.   Land levelliag unit pries have been derived fiom the assumption that of a tota ae of 120,000
ha to be leveUed, 36,000 ha will need S00 to 700 me/ha of soils moved, and S4,000 will requir beteen
300 to 500 m'l/a of soils moved.
16.   The above-mentioned unit prices are cost prices, and do not include contror profts and saes
tax. Reductions will be posible If the WUO executes the work d drecty. On the other hand Inefficiencies
are likely to occur that wi pardy offset the possible cost redutons. Exeution of the works by
conators will increase the above-mentioned costs.
17.   In addition, the unit costs of comnstrction materals used for civil wor are as follows:
On-farm Development
(a)    Uning of canal
Cement                            US$   120/T
Steel Rods                        US$   4S2./
Gravel                            USS   15/mn
Snd                               US$   SISms
(b)    Low preure PVC pipe of differnt sizes, average cost US $9,000/w.
(c)    Subsurface d&ainage of concrete pipes of diffen dze, average cost US $4,00/km.



- 66 -                                                            ANNEX 0
Page 4 of 6
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRUGAION NETWORK IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table G-1. Areas and Composkion of Groups
GROUP I                  _       _        GROUP 2      _                         TOTAL
DIRICT                           NU EROP |  AREA                          NUMUER OP          AREA        NUtMEROP |   ARIA
MODULE  pARS                  HA    MODULE   PA!MRS                      HA          FIARMPRS          HA
Rio Cado                         2                          6,460        6                               6230
1                             11,230
3                             10.90
4                              8,240
TWtA_                       476       6,460            _           2,000          36290           2,476       42,750
RIo Yaqui                       KIG                         8,390     Coooque                            4,460
4PtO                        2,080       k44                              3,230
4P12                       4,900         m3                              4,400
879                             7.800
W0                              3.S90
k39                            31,4950    _
TOmW                      1.408      15U370                        2,290          24,930          3,698       40.300
Rio MhAy                         8                          3.770         5                              5.290
6                               S7.60
10                             5,150   _ 
TtA                         341       3,770                                       18,300            341       22,070
ElCania                          2               873        8,150         3              1,430          13,580          2,308       21,730
ElPoto                          11-2                       18,900       1-11                            14.0
I-t                            19,620                    _
Tot                       t,635      18,900                        3,170          33,S8O          4,805       52,730
Qill;eod                         IV                        11,840       11.2                            16,020
V-I                            15,800
1.3                            22,520
TOW __                    1,348      18 o                          4,900          54,30           6,248       66,1S0
La Lawua                         VI                         4.35         301                             4.93
V                              4,460
la                             4,630
i;_________                    mVI        ___________           5,400               _     _    _
TOW                       1,627       4,850                       ,7380           19,410          9,007       24,260
DA"                              3                          5,S60         4                              7,810
2                              6,210
7                             22.640
TOWl                        416       5,860                        3,600          36,660          4,016       42.320
Alto Tam                                 ___                6,690        IV                             12,660
v111                            $8390               _
TOWl                      1,438       6,690                        3,350          21,050          4,738       27,740
Pab                              1              2.340       8,400                                                       2,340        8,400
0a.ow___2                                                                                SAW            17,730          3,900       17,730
LIw.C4z4m    (A_anmp8)                                                   10                550          10,060            550       10,060
3d.31. sead                                                             1-2                 so          8820              50        8,820
Bp4RfaBmv_                                                                2                              3,300              0        3,300
mama anwsi                                                                                                IM,360                  ,6
TTA L                   12            10272       90,290         32             29,450        303,710         39,722      394,000
p,    F s I  bei   dmale Au  93 -d as AM"
3/pomUfaasuinw be pqmr4andAvgu9693 -Deo.94.



ANNEX G
- 67 -                              Page5of6
ONPARM AND MINOR IURUATON NBEW1K WRaOVEMEN  PROMEC
ON-PARM COMPON
8uatm Esd_at of Pbs*a Qumdu  of (lVi W.d. by Group
Componnt and Subcomponent          Unit      Unit Cost    GOup I       Group n I          (ha)
USS'00O 1/    81.890 ha    312.110 ha       Total
394.00
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   ._           _  _ _ _   _  _ _ _ __   -_ _ _ _ _ _  
0>£M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
On-Lwa Improvements
inig of diches                     km            13.83      1,721         4,279         6,000
Low pressure pipe System           km            10.63       173           627           800
Land levelling                     ha            0.33     26,417         93,583       120,000
Gated pipes                        ha            0.77      3,100         11,250        14,350
Spike irrigation                   ha             1.73     4,880         17,620        22,500
Drip irrigaion                     ha            2.14      3,408         12,342        15,750
MirsprialWde kriin                 ha             1.95      1,186         4,314         5,500
Electification of wals             No.           12.00        55            195          250
Subsurc  drainage                  ha             1.57       900  ,       3,300         4,200
Inecludig materials and eclluding capital invement of macnry and equipment.
Z   Quantites of Group I ar based on 10 stud  at foaibility level.
a   Quantities of Grou ., U are extapolatd from feaibility stutdi of Group I and need to be confirmed.
Cw Ciil work costs uxlude captal Coat of Amahiny and equpmt.
Table G-3
Summar Estimate of Pbyil Quant_s of Civil Works by Year
I_           _-I   -'           '                                                                - ..I .
Component and    Jsk           V      1"         DMM_I                                          O
_____ .  .__ ,                                                            .i-Juam
Lining of dithes        km      120       300        900       1,500      1,6w        1,500        6,000
Low pressure pipe sysdtm    km   16        40        120        200         224        200           g0m
Lad levenling            ha   2,400     6,000      18,000     30,000     33,600     30,000        120,000
Gated pipes              ha     287       718      2,153       3,588      4,018      3,588         14,350
Spridnkr irrigation      ha     450     1,125       3,375      5,625      6,300      5,625        22,500
DIip Irigadon            ha     315       788       2363       3,938      4,410      3,938         15,750
iowrosprinsr irrigation  ha     110       275        82S       1,373      1,540      1,375         5,500
E11eurifiction of wals  No.       5        13         38         63          70         63           250
Subsurface drainage      ha      84       210        630       1,050      1,176       1,050        4,200
1/ From luly 1994 to July 1999.



ANNEX G
- 68 -                                 Pago6of6
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NESWORK  MROVEMNrT PROJECT
ON-PARM COMPONENT
Table Gd4
Sansazy Esmae of Cost of CMI Woas by Groups LI
(135 mElon
Coaponet and Suboomponent       Group 12/        GoWup 11 3/           Total
181.890          312.110            394.000
On-frm I _apovnma Al                 56,866           178,634            23S,500
Lining of ditchs                     23,801           59,199              83,300
Low prm pipees 0y_ alp1,839                            6,661               8,500
LAW  lvewins                         8,718            31,282              40,000
GaM pipes                             2,387            8,613              11,000
s1bida hl*dI8,442                                     30,5S               39,000
Dtip kt*                             7,293            26,407              33,700
2,313            8,387              10,700
Bledrifimion Of wlb        660             2,340               3,000
Subsure d Paia                        1,413            5,187               6,600
1,/ Saot wthbou IVA at Deember 1992.
V1 Qua*s of goup I are based on 10 udies at as1ibility Wale
y Qoat_  of gtoup  ue eapolZed from fasbidy sudies of group I and need to be confimed.
jI Civil wo* cos eclude capl comt of machin  and oquipmt



- 69 -
ANNE H
|              h8~~~~~~ae 1 ol 4
it.r                                     i1 
Mii
gEl                               W
o   ,t5
I.i



MUO
ON.FA1M AND MINOR IIUIATN NIRKS IMPROYDnT FrOJUCT
It  .r_1 . .Jti Aiv. - o. t=      at
Py                                               HYLBENZS                                               IAL
-        .. -        -                                                                                -       -           .
ANUCEPAIM                                                                D~~~~~~~~~~~tr s.Rz  hunt U.    8asbUe fRmSof
E6-            -    -            -   -             -   -
3OIEPZSE,                          r                          uai                     bN P_uc  
O(flWhm.               FuvsLe.oj                  mrs use of                   incus.e  gH        Pot.    urn of   of             Up
1ROJBCT       MEIofs.      L    Se,tr    NAPA   Team        CspNg   Rosux         Bct    Crop     Va        of    5    eiha.     P awir  J=U         Prd.   By.
ACIIVrM5       0a__L    Da'.  Fm*s    Mjtu    C-            lo-iay  _npf        Saings    e."   Cros    Aq4ifis   LAds   c,m    mv.   Ia.    Groat 
T=bft                                                                                                                                              a    
A.TO*d_                                                                                                            l_§  W
smrlt                           .  - .-                        ---                                                                             -
C                   _                   - *   e   *                            -    L                -_                            * |   e                 e   -*



71  -                                      ANNEX H
Page 3 of 4
MEXCO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECr
Chart 3. Proposed Implementation Schedule
Timetable Cbart for General GUIdance
project Im lemeatatlon Years (CY)
Project Activlides                0           1           2          3           4           5           6
Components1Subcomp.aents            (1993)      (1994)      (1995)      (1996)    _(1991) (998)            (1999)
(0) Preparatlo-Appralsal-Negotlatlou s
PoUcy, Regu1atory & Admin Changes 21                           I
(1) Tech Support, Comm & Training                                                                
Training Program,                              ---   ----
Feasibility Studies
Communicatio  Pr_ra
A dv Reserch Progam
Field Monitodng Actions
Tedmnical.Asdsisbmc to WUOs            _29                     _ _ _im
(2) linor Networks Off-tarm Improvneets          -              _
Field Sumveys, Eog. Sev. and Superv.
Porement of Machinay
Procurement of Constuction Materials
Execution of Civil Works
Inventy Control and Auditmng
(3) On-Fom Improvements
(4) Eaviroonnetal Protecton Actons
Groundwater Sudies and
Aquifer SWablzatico Action Plans                01        1
Saline Land Reclamation Action Plan
Selcted P     ilot _tgoAct
Post-Actio   = Plns Mig. Investm_nts
Ovewl COMPOnentmomo
Subcompont (aftr efctveme)
11 Potect effec_LItiees is ecndUinaitie an Je 19.
2V Not a pnect component Ift wil be Igmpemetd thrug condfioualitis and dated covenants.



MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATIIN INETWORKS IMPROEMEN PROJECI
CUa t 4Fuds Flo - F   sia Cost RCod'teuy
|     SN  -UN                                FEDERALu FUNDS         L_        iPRIVATE, FNS
| ~IBRI)                         ELCLSCA BUAET       |t REDLSOUNTTie rS
aS) FKFanners (20%)
CNAlEN|.--        
=~~~~~o _
F}'RS TME B3ANKS UNDER AGREEMENT
.  _           _        W  ~~~~CONITRACTS WITH CNA(PUBLC INVESTiNT  21FIRST TIER BANKS UNDER FIRA_
_ _ _COERY                                  REDISCOUNT (CREDITREORY__  



ANNEX I
- 73 -                                      Page I of 4
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR ERRIGATION NErWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECr
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
I. Economic Costs
1.    Investment costs for the economic analysis were eatmated using CNA conversion factors (on average
0.89). Project economic costs by componenls are ab.ut US$ 461 million (see Project Working Paper C-XI,
Table 1). The following project costs were excluded from the economic evaluation: eighty percent of the
Technological Support, Communications, and Training component; since their benefits fall beyond the direct
beneficiaries of this project. The only subcomponent totally included for this analysis was the cost of the
Feasibility Studies.
2.     Crop production costs were estimated by CNA at two technology levels: traditional and improved.
Their weighted average in the 10 modules contained in the feasibility studies were used ior the analysis. Since
almost all the modules to be subsequently incorporated into the project are located in the same IDs as the first
group and have similar production characteristics, it is assumed that the estimated costs are representative of the
total project area. Table 1-2 shows tie average traditional costs of produWion per hectare used for the crops
considered for this evaluation, and the production costs under the new scenario. These crops occupy more than
85% of the cultivaed area of the project modules. Economic costs were considered at constant 1993 prices but,
as explained in paras. 12 and 14, adjustmente related to World Bank Price Projections and to current policy
issues (real exchange rate, energy costs, etc.) were also made.
-'.    No adjustment was included for labor costs. In Mexico, labor is considered to have a conversion factor
of 0.6, but rural salaries are in general over the legal minimum levels in the project area, suggesting that salaries
are equivalent to their opportunity cost.
aI. Product Prces
4.     Table I-1 shows the economic prices of agricutual products used for this analysis. The prices are
estimates of the import or export parity prices at the farm gate (adding or discountng the corresponding
marketing costs). They represent the opporunity cost of production in Mexico. Economic prices for corn and
wheat are significantly lower than current domestic prices. The difference in the case of corn is mainly due to
the existing subsidies and to an inefficient productivity level. Wheat production is expected to exceed domestic
demand in three years time, generatng an exportable surplus. Therefore, economic prices for wheat will tend to
move from the import to the export parity level. Economic price estimates for other crops followed similar
criteria. Economic and financial prices (in Mex. N$/Ton) for com and wheat included in the analysis are the
following:
Table I-1
A 4rctwal Pices
Product       2rAe r      3      M      - -    =6          -=          '
Corn         Fman      720     676      632    5S9        596      603
Boon     575      581      581      589     596      603
Wheat        Fman      610      596      583      569     57       586
Boon     584      580      588      597     606      615



ANNEX I
- 74 -                                           Page 2 of 4
5.     Economic prices for vegetables were considered to be equivalent to their financial values since there is no
administuive intervention to affect the price resulting from supply and demand forces. Nevertheless, lower levels than
the average prices were assumed, considering the fluctuations in these markets both between and within years and
seasons.
HI. Cultivaed Area
6.     Table 1-2 displays the expeee  evolution in the cultivated area devoted to different crops with and without the
project. Without the project, the land use index would remain around 1, since water would contAnue to be the scarcest
resource in irrigated areas. With the projcct, increased water use efficiency would allow the land use index to rise to
1.39. The cropped area would grow from 400,000 ha in t994 to 550,000 ha in 2000. Almost 30% of this increment
is assimed to be higher value crops such as veiet ','es and fruits. These scenarios were built around price trends and
the consequent relative net income from various c-ps, which would tend to determine farmers' future crop
preferences. Total cropped areas were derived from the aggregation of feasible farm models, in order to mainain
realistic relationships between investment costs and expected benefits.
IV. Yields
7.     The following table presents weighted average crops yields (in kg per ha) under the two scenarios, as
estimatoe by CNA staff based in each project ID. The incremental yiclds would be the resut of better irrigation
schedules which were more appropriate to crop demands, and higher water avaiability due to improved
distbution and application systems.
Table I-2
Yield Changes
cmp                          Yd                  Yidd               Yd             Epectd
wiout            with Projec         Yield
Year 0             ProJect            Year 10          inease
Year 10                               b
CNom                         4.420              4.600               5.210             13
Wheat                        4.550              4.700               5.160             10
Beans                        1.590               1.700              1.880             11
Soybeans                     1.910               2.000              2.110              6
Sorghum                      5.900               6.100              6.390              5
onion                        30.000             33.000             38.000             15
POtao                        16.980             18.000             21.000             17
Tomato                       17.790             18.600             21.800             17
Broccol                      10.000             10.250              11.000             7
CllU                         16.130             16.500              18.500            12
Camaloupe                    20.000             21.500              25.100            17
V. Production
8.     Te Prqjeat Working Paper C-XI Tables 5 and 6 show tota production, income, production cost, and
profits in economc values under the two benarios. Table 6 also shows imvestments and the resuldting cash flow.
Table 7 (wee Working Paper C-XI) shows the nrementl production in volume and economic value. Production
would increase from 2.3 milion MT in 1994 to 4 million MT in 2000 with the project, and to only 2.6 million
MT without it. Production value would increase from US$323 millioni to US$900 million, an 180% iMnrease



- 75-                                        ANNEXI
Page 3 of 4
with the project, and to US$564 million without the project. The project's incremental production would be
60% by value. Annual net income would increase by about US$100 million.
9.    Higher value crops (mainly vegetables for foreign markets) would account for approximately one third of
the incremental cropped area, and for US$180 million of the US$336 million in increased annal production by
value. Traditional crops would be responsible for two-thirds of the incremental area, and tor US$150 million of
the annual production by value, mainly for grains used as import substitutes.
VI. Benefits
10.   The Expected Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated at 19.3%. These results are subject to a
number of uncertainties which are discussed in para 3.80 (H. Project Risks) of the main SAR. The first two
risks (failure in the provision of adequate and timely government counterpart funds, and failure in the timely
availability of complete feasibility studies, field surveys, etc.) would result in delays in implemendng the project;
the third risk factor (insufficient willingness among farmers to invest in on-farm improvements by borrowing
money from banks, and insufficient availabiLity of credit from private banks) would result in less an planned
private on-farm improvements.
11.   The impact of these two uncertainty factors on the project EER has been analyzed assuming three
possible alternatives for each factor in combination with the probability assumptions shown in the following
table:
(a)    First Uncertainy Factor: Adoption Rate                  Probability of event
(i)    Optimistic (100% of assumed on-farm investments)  0.10
(ii)    Realistic (66% of assumed on-farm investments)  0.50
(iii)   Pessimistic (50% of assumed on-farm investments)  0.40
(b)    Sond Uncertnty For. I            enan Schedde
(i)    On schedule (implementation in 6 years)         0.40
(ii)    One year delay (implementation in 7 years)     0.35
(iii)   Two years delay (implementation in 8 years)    0.25
12.   The result is a spectrum of ERR rning from 12.7% (with a probability of exceeding 13.6% of .90) to
a maximum of 28% (probability 0.04), and a probability weighted average of ERR = 19.3% (63% probability of
obtaining a higher ERR). The assumptons underlying the analysis and the results are shown in the table and
graph presented in the following page. The most likely scenario is one combining a 66% rate of adoption with
aih implementation period of 6 years, which would result in an ERR of 23.5% (probability 0.3).
13.   The project's impact would be achieved through improved yields, increased cropped area due to waetr
savings, and diversification of production into high value crops. About 40,000 farmers would direcdy benefit
through increased incomes and around 52,000 new jobs would be created.
14.   Improved water conveyance and application efficiencies would also result in significantly higher
availability of water for crop irrigation. Total conveyance and distribution efficiency would increase from
42.9% to 58.8%, which means a 37% incwease in water availability, equivalent to 650 million cubic meters.
Water productivity would be increased by 50% within the project area. The improved water yield is shown in
Table 8, by farm model and for the project as a whole (see Project Working Paper C-XI, Table 8). At present,
one thousand cubic meters of water is used to generate US$40 of farmer net income; US$60 would be geated
at project maturity.
15.   Water needs per hectare would diminish from 9.800 cu.m. to 7.150 cu.m., reducing production costs
and contributng to the competitveness of Mexican agriculture, stegtd nng its capacity to perform in the new



ANNEX I
- 76 -                                         Page 4 of 4
open market environment. In IDs where underground water is pumped, the project would enhance the
sustanability of production by protectig aquifers and reducing salinity and water logging.
16.   Other benefits include: (a) pressure reduction on the Public Budget; (b) expansion of the technical and
administrative capacity of the Govemment and the private sector to exiend project improvements to other areas;
(c) increased number of project beneficianes through the project's demonstration effects; and (d) development of
service-related activities resulting in the creation of new employment opportunities.
Fsftfation of the Expected Rate of Return, E (ERR)
A. Probability of different events affecting the behavior of 2 main uncertainty factors
Assumptions
First uncertainty factor
a. adoption rates: optmimtic = 100%                           0.10
b. adoption rates: modal = 65%                                0.50
c. adoption rates: pessimistic = 50%                          0.40
Second uncertinty factor
d. benefits: delayed I year                                   0.35
e. benefits: no delay                                         0.40
f. benefits: delayed 2 years                                  0.25
B. Results of the combinadon of 6 different events affecdng the uncertainty factors
Combination     Combined p       Corresp    |          ERRs in       COF of p(ERR) in
of B & C     (p* p* pz)    - (ER)           ,       wdn Ore    Dening Ore
a & d    j       .035          26.3%                 28.0%              0.040
a & e           0.040          28.0%        :        26.3%              0.075
a & f          0.025           24.7%        :        24.7%              0.100
b&d             0.i75          22.0%        :        23.5%              0.300
b & e           0.200          23.5%        :        22.0%              0.475
b & f           0. 25          20.6%                 20.6%              0.600
c & d           0.140          13.6%        :        13.6%              0.760
c & e           0.160          14.6%        :        14.6%              0.900
c&f            0.100           12.7%       :         12.7%              1.000
Oppormnity Cost of Capital, OC                          0.12
C. Approxim, E(ERR) = 19.3% Var E(ERR)       22.9 Standard Deviation E(ERR)     0.63
D. Graph: Scatter of Negative Cumulative Distnbution (CDF) of probabilities of ERRs.
I 
I   gLs :tS  I~~~~s 
p =probability; ERR =Economic Rate of Retmn



ANNEA J
-  TT  -                             Page 1 of 34
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMROVEENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION AND MONiTORING
SECTION 1. PROJECT IWPLEMENTATION AND IMPACr INDICATORS
1.    Implementation indicators and impact Indicators will be used to monitor the project.
hnplementation Indicators
2.    The implementation indicators will be directly linked to the achievement of scheduled
targets, in terms of the specific outcomes of each of the activities considered under each
component/sub-component (proposed in the corresponding plans). The indicators will also consider
key accomplishment indicators that will be used to monitor critical achievements on each of the main
project targets. These figures will allow the Bank, NAFIN, CNA, and the WUOs to establish and
use standard references for analysis. The indicators itself, their baseline values, and their annual
target values were agreed upon at appraisal and are listed in Table J-1-I.
3.    Some specific implementation indicators are associated with the sub-projects (modules) as well
as the Project. The specific values of these indicators for each module will be established as soon as
the feasibility study for the module is approved. The annual values of those indicators will be
adopted to monitor implementation of the corresponding sub-project. Table J-1-1.A shows the nature
of those indicators, and the annual target values for one of the sub-projects of group 1 (where the
feasibility study is already complete).
Impact Indicators
4.    The impact Indicators will be linked to the achievement of general and specific project
objectives and to the following proposed subsector strategies. The indicators are organized according
to: technological, agroeconomic and socioeconomic aspects. The nature of these indicators and the
baseline values at specific stages of the project cycle were agreed at appraisal, and are shown in Table
J-1-I.
5.    Impact indicators can also reflect the outcome of actions in a specific module, as well as for
the project as a whole. In this case, the indicators will be determined as soon as the corresponding
feasibility study ,- approved. Table J-1-II.A presents these indicators and their respective values for a
module in group 1 (where the feasibility study wc.e already completed and accepted at appraisal).



ANNEX J
-  78  -                                               Page 2 of 34
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table J-14
Project Implementation Indkators
TarI                                                      Ye
Copnn              Sub                                                                -  .'                -         -.                           Tota
_________  Comp_nont       Ducwlpln                     ~U            g         95        96        97                  99
Tial             FCW&ft          SuDa catpicd pot TOR tfo I sodule     U of Stdioes     26                                                           26
kwpo.t.                                                                                                                                                    .,k otup I
"a Tv4ms                        SSia cempistd per  R fr 1 mdul         I of Su1il.      16                                                           1d
,a for ap2                                  _
Tralal aad      Sboctcounsof 2 weem inab waoo         Dofewie           1         3         3         3                             to
PmfAgdna        kyon amotbodolma f- or    - OOII dIV~  XsuosmalY
D.va1o_ml       oepodserpuu_S                         comsploka
Dlomcomueotdwelb in vwom              l of cou e       6         6         6          1                            19
l_aImtca cowucs, mal.in ad andy       I Of dvon                  2         3          3                             8
lours, ~~~~~~~~ucoSifdUly
t ~~~~~~~~~~-iwc                                                                                     I
_________ _ c_u_l_tI
Shoutcommon for fchnlci orWUOs        lof cowas        5        10        20         15                            50
wcceyW                 I
Shotcoma ft rWUO _etg                 I d  ouo        2         4         S          6                            20
Fls  day opunkd,  anedow ast k.25    I oft  dsw y      15       25        50         74        70       70        30So
Asmewcb (eavoag   )_
S taasgdienh    In- _oz l cotta for Sam. aviu.        USS -000        371       667       667       667         67      371       3410
OClyD           tov fAd offce wpm It 2'
P    ermmot    l1bolot nd   oot   cquma              #lof           _ 7           7                                      14         14
PAeM            A-tilpout. wD  Utf llicy              0 of Rpect        S        10        14        14         14       14         71
Mnc1 _ed rhl    epmdiwr aschdhuict
Anlspoce3 t walmatqutoml m ltorksg   dof Rcpt          5        10        14         14        14       14         71
dEfdic caxo_ped for eawb ID                                  I
Aualscpon as wow  lmb svhcn           # ef Repot       4         6    S               8         8        8         42
comspid fao Co  dtl
A_upd         ml sft mtl ontocg       i of epors       3         8        12         12        12       12         59
comploted foar 41c d1srtc_
Amluepor       topgct sculwspzodcon   Iof Rpom         5        10        14         14        14       14         71
Seon WOW       P1otoUd,oofeil  .d rp.                  0 a             10        20        30                                       60
-  o_aeef d       eaow 
1/ Ilsanceby low  &usa o*ly
If $o al,o Wobe  s Pap  C.ll at foediul physci  d"tao.
if Ih  MpOM  iWil b* di bi  or "Otato and mainUMVnIC pdorhios in the Ms and will be svlwed by doe Bank duri*g   erision _ison



ANNE1t I
- 79 -                                        Pap 3 of 34
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMOVEM  PROJECr
Tabl J-1-I
Proet Impkmenton Indkios
(contnuation)
Cmvamat         8r. -T-                                                                            -                          Tee_
______    4~~~~~ampneat  flW@IVin    ~ ~ ~ ian               06       59      Os       07        a0      so
Tehk          C     ka C _     & or" an dw. *uan. eIwh$    US$ '00l    539          589      179       97       97      97      1343
=aw Tn8                      tom m       pnee  for ID         # eD           10
~~~._ ______ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ D W1                                                          
Vieo fiSm klaf. navala tdio      Iptuim.        3        4                                          14
PM-,ogi. t., pndad              ti
MAdv.m        pnazetSdomIn  DalLdb" oI         I of etudhm     2       6        3                                 13
hnbpmpm  Ptamto                 IC eti ot                2       6         s                        13
_    _*lik_ikopk
o f -_                       _ _ _ _
ef         w  ..o.*              I of Amnu               2       a        1        II               49
Asml a_ a. m     tuAlb. inbl PqOa
tqmb1_do6nmur9196
b 1996
Todkm1        Deign moE for -3- eya  as pw     ManmI           I                                                   I
~~~mm.   TD    r1 t 
nd dugwm wo-              __
Op_tmalumppotfAWUOo Emma         o= 1_2                          14                                 26
axoW  n eams. nhdm.  ad
aaovy. -.   ._
BaUrinl _I   'i formi* oontmL bad   at.                 12       12       12       12               48
e.bndmulnd Oa  Ime
aner          SW" Do*m   P_ o        ddr:of did d_ign         I dat)D        31      16                                          47
Sapvdlaf   Hidu Sagvbloiswvm                   Soublu          4      37       44       29       17      it       142
CbitW4                                         To-VA_                                                              _
Phoe._od      FPlo landea                                      4       14      t0        5                _
Malr  __ ____
Bok4wwao,                        I _  __        S       20       14        7                        46
_A1ng _irl                      lMae            3       II   I            4                         26
Dml.g.pkw hyl.a mcb hrfdog       I3ibbh.        1        4       S        2                         10
Dinlmagpipe bouewJh- fmbllw    I MaeIhm         2        6       4        2                         14
drab
DOW _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __       _   Iaehln         12      44      31        16                -       to
cU*um4Iamlh.fohrerml                            S       to       7        4                         24
Op4tuhdlmoNm )                    vAcbi         5       t1       7        4                         24
C.ncandr                         I3c_hm        21       76       5        27                       177



- 80 -                                                    ANNEX J
Page 4 of 34
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 1J1-1
Project Implementadon Indicators
(continuation)
Tnzp8d                                                        Yaw
Cm                  S._.                                                                                -                                  -                 TOl
__  empoe                    D ripiom                        Lia            94        ff         96         97         9t         99
1.9..              Poemiut  Open dka ty=d am orA                               Macbn.           2         9          6          3                               20
_r_-,              -               Motowades                                  14"biDee          3        tO          7          4                               24
Watm eaakoco wbeb                        0 Hwbimm           6        23         16           a                              53
Di-elpmipp                               I MacIm            6        23         16          8                               53
cnwherbuscg                              IMacbmm            5         19        13           6                              43
3 _Scu    peapeld                        I Mnbiesm          5         19        13          6                     =         43
1w. bedat"or                             IMacim             4         14        10          5                     _         33
Lad p=                                   I Mahina           4        14         10          5                                33
Towed ecespe               UM                               4         14        to           5                              33
Rotaay mce,                               Muhin             5        16         12          6                               39
Qck timetl                               gMabm              5        17         12          6                               40
Comma                                    Tan            16779     37752      71310      62920       20973               2O9734
SMedrob                                  Tau              227       511        966        852         284        2_41
Agpqglm. Gavt                            as             65495      734       78354      U5607       81869               SS639
A _gsga1e  Sd                                           52013      17028     21054      195047      65016               650158
Piph  PVC 4                              m              26618     5390       21626      107317      35772               357724
Pis PVC 8-                                              11404     2559       4468       42766       14255               142552
pP pVC 14                                                 956      2152       4064       3556        1195                11954
FPpm PVC is                              m               2325      5230       9S80       S717        2906                29057
Pie PVC 20-                                              1225      2756       5206       4593        1531                15310
Pipe PVC 24-                                            19126     43034      81287      71724       23908                 239080
Collecor Da_me CInteSts-                 m                713      1603       3028       2672         891                 8907
C elkoDah.pCeact3o0                     _                 137       307        580        512         171                 1707
. __________   Aqu_eatmoSlaubu                             No               914       205S      3887        3429       1143                11431
Civl Wedo.       LeinUotdkAm                              Km                 96       480        864       1440        1440      480        4800
Low ve.apip   em                         KM                 8        40         72         120        120        40        400
cow asS     afi 8  *ow"                  No               322      1610       289S       4830        4830      1610      16100
Cagellseedgdla                           No                 4        18         32         54          54        18        IS0
em  1apa dmim                            Km                40       200        360        60          600       200       2000
Atom   seeds                             KM                12        60        108         180        180        60        600
C.ia.                                    in              9314     19960      33266      31258       33266               133063
sta gods                                too 18                       38         63          t0         6                      25
Ag uptes Gavel                           a1 23475                 S033       83839      93899       83839               335355



_8  -                                                    ANNEXJ
Page S of 34
MEXIco
ON-PARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table J-1-I
ProJect Implem eton Indkatr
(coantuation)
J                 ~~~~~~Tared                                                    yewr
Cmpoent              sub                                                                                                                            -        TOW
Compoe                       D       eipd                     Unit          94        95         96         97         98         99
Minor             Civil Wo*k       AgTe. Sand                               m               18326     39270     65450       73304      65450                261800
Nabrovonenta    ___________   Pipes PVC S                                                  29133      62428     04046      116532     104046                416185
.-                          -                            -.        _                                 -   -__              -
On-farm           Prouremnof    Pipes PVC 10-                                m              16185      WU        57803      64740      57803                231214
Jn,oeet           Matril            _I~PYU                                                                         _-           -_ 
Pip s PVC 12                             m              106S2     22S90       8150      42728      38150                152601
Conerete pipe 6                          m              $8331    1 24994     08324     Z33323      108324               833295
Concte pipe 8-                           m              I758       197      66994      75034      66994                267977
Conct pipe 24                            m               20-3      4405       7341       82         7341                 29364
CvU works ad    Lining of ditcbe                           km               120       300       900        1500       1680      1500        6000
iativon                                                                                       . -   -
euipment         Low p      e pipe Syem                   km                 16        40        120        200        224       200         8O0
Land kvlg                                ha              2400      6000      18000      30000      33600       0000     120000
ow edplpes                               ha               287       71S       2153       3588       4018      3588       143W0
Sprinker Iridn                           ha               450      1125       3375       5625       6300      3625       22500
Drip iniga_     _                        ha               315       788       2363       3938       4410      3938       15750
mflcrpinkerrritatdon                     ha               110       275        825       1375        1540     1375        5500
Elcrfiladost of pump                     No                 5        13         38         63         70        63          250
Subsufbae draige                     I                     84       210        630       1050        1176     1050         200
Notc     he tarsg  value for minor nwrb  and onarm compone  ar bndi          and baed In dwe feasibili sudies available at apprIsal. Fi vales wiU be adjusWed upon completeon of
eonsuceon designs and agment bwen CNA and te WUOL



- 82 -                                             ANNE J
Page 6 of 34
MWCO
ON-FARM A0 MINOR DRRICATION NETWORKS  MROI¶'tMENT PROJECT
TaJ--IJA
SbpRo    bulemewdeUo  Ica*on
MODUSl.' 8                  DsTuCr: Rle Mao (0Z)                   BENICAR=: 341                                    ARE&: 3.77071K.
T-d _Yw t
Dmatj*Im                          94     9f        96       97        96         99
Team"          FinUt  SW"    P_quZdat as               mubWaa          1 _
S touffat                       mmula fuSDY    ad
cammun.w                         pIbvbw of FcSihy      ca     uof      1                                                            I
ISo. sd                          .lmssth*cmy
T=kbb g                         ___    ___    ___I*50I
SS *Ima         Pe DI    o ibd         Dm               1                                                           1
_ _ _D                       D                                      _                 _    _
)4iog~Nawoik swaovia3        ElciqgOfu uVbio       ldabdimo                 I        1                                         3
Wam                   sad-
Pvosatamco       Ftoo loa              No. Mc&          I
Buk* be xc_u          NO. Mft         I                                                            I  
akl ow i mevmor       No. Math        1                                                            I
Dnboppip bybm         NO. _ftL        I                                                           I
Dmpb                  NO. MAC         I   
.C40*MW*W=WhlW  No. MuL  I                                                        I
Op  d<aii. 4_         Ne. MI           I
_      ..                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(DONDI
, C _mUaot              No. Mac.        2                                                           2 
-Ssarufaf             NO. uMa         1          _
Wsm a kan acto        No. Macb.        I                                                           I
Laud pbaa             No. Mash        1                                                           1
ToWof   a _ a         No. MaL          I                                                           I
Dilon Pm              No. MaL .        1                                                          1
_P_d Cpat             Na. M.          1I
_~~~~~~~~~oe Scop                             No. Ise          I
Vl tnm                No. USA         I1
11pl                  No. Ma          I                 _I
Camaat                "as           175.1   349.  1U74.1    1399                                3497.8
Stald cd                              14       4.7    21.3       18.9                             474
weI           388U.5    .s   349n.2    3102.8                            7757.6
IA. ...   .    A  _o                 71      541.8   239.s    _1=8=                             5421.4



ANNX J
- 83 -                                   Pap 7of34
=CO
OK.AIAZD AM   Ot IUUIAWON NEM4RWO  bOVDD  FRO3
TS oJ4J.A
_ -       ~        ~(_
Tax                                    Yewr
C^p_  _   _~~~~~ar,  ________
_--M          Deui              VAU       94                            g 96  9g 96  99
jNa dNOW&   Ci Web         AqOWoo*l          N&           10    24    109       97                        241
-_et_ -                                                    6-2 2- 2-                                      -
L6Iat.fdb&dl      km                 20    32        21                         79
C4 _s  _   lNo.                19    40    ff        a                         240
______ _ _    _mm              I       I     is       9             _3
OW                         came C                         $2.3   60.7  64.8    A.4                       1416.4
-            M   --- h 6--  
3beJzuda          I..          0.1    0.2    1.4     1i.                        3.0
4_Iv  _ 46.3 11i.4    .1  91 16   _314.7
R   i   ! AeJiwgM i _          31.9   79.4  683.6   795.2                     I130.1
PVC pp _m                    1295.7  3221.4  7744.8  32238.2                 "4S00
ChiuWeIa      Lk1gofd1zci       In            6     10    29       27                         72
1.i knihwl     _be            276    487   1592 UN   22                       m480
I4kr.ip-         I1I          23    40    114       1_                         236
-~-                                                   __..                  ___,_*  .  -                 - .__   
b2:   FinFal taet values per year will be nevisedonfimed upon oompletina of rlvn c _sbuo dewg and 8igue of
agmewt boet           CNA and WUOs.



ANNEX I
-  84  -                                              Page 8 of 34
iAzxCO
-ARM AM MINOR    ATMIO NETWORS IlDPOVW PMOJECT
T"bb J-l-f
ProJet IMPac dcar
_ _ _ _ _ _                                      VL4R
I  .hIt                               94       9s       96        in        a    I
T| hmcIaewbwrv=w                  WaCoa,yfjw mcy                                  6       70        75        79        82       8
We-AppIioaoBFli-q                               65       6        #7        68        68.5     6
Too      wElcimo4                                       45        so4388
_amhgW         Dw poaiUfzr         10' e       175     277       416       526       614      657
L.ad t_hy (orppe U pbyu                          1.00    1.00      1.02      1.06      1.15     1.24
A-.  omamicI apro                 Crawha D__Wa oa=1at.iV.                        I1       15        16        IS        19       19
Craqpto YieM bIprvemtoas main   t_ 1b
=.                                               4.42    4.45      4.54      4.70      4-90     5.0
s aybe=                                          1.91    1.91      1.92      1.96      2.01     2.06
.bm                                              4.55    4.56      4.61      4.74      4.90     S.0S
- db                                            16.1    16.2      t6.4      17.0      17.6     1.t
.pe_                                            17.0    17.2      17.5      18.0      18.8     19.7
.ooo _tI8                                             18.5      19.0      19.S      20.0     21
.mba                                            20      20.5      21        21.5      22.5     24
TotprduodAa       pidus            10 to" ._
.-fr
s aybee                                        460     470       490       530       5S0      620
V Au                                           100     105       115       130       150      IS0
Choh  MLe                                      590     595       600       620       640      660
=-de . "70                                            75        90       120       140      160
-U.   _                                         70      75        S0        82        85       90
.  _a                                          240     250       S00       400       520      600
145     150       ISo       230       280      300
S->_i_nohptv_m                    Pwmwwil__F&w                       tO, US$
._                         ~~~~~~~~1'
. y _bow                                        85      88        92       100       t1O      120
.1.                                             37      40        45        48        5S       64
. d6b                                          110     112       113       119       125      132
.Pog                                            17      19        22        29        3S       42
-1o z17                                                 18        19        20        21       22
male                                            50      54        67        87       116      t32
TOW                                             12      14        17        22        25       29
460     476       532       629       741      828
un. udbenbeoomeby Wm of            10$ US$
D 1 (10 e  Md I)                                 2.0     3.0       3.7       3.7       3.7      3.7
* 2   wa  ,0   30 be                            11.5   IUA        18.2      18.6      19.2     20.2
S (SOba O ml Mm                                 23.6    35.0      41.9      42.8      44.7     47.7
_         ni~(s.ueeu                            12.1 t  1 6.4     20.7      20.9      21.7     22.7
_~~~~                                                                     -             .. .,
j/ Nomlanlt6mm
M    Haud andmfol            dms" w                    I' uol oap(tioa of aul babb  oi.atale



a 85   -                                      ANNEXJ 
-  85  -                                Page 9 of 34
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND  INOR IRRGATION NErWORKS IMPROVlZMT PROJECT
TabkJ.14LA
Module Imped laedirlr
MODULE: 08                                      DISlICT: Rio Mayo (038)                        BENEPICLUUI: 341 AREA: 3.770 WN.
IIjadleer                                          YEAR
oljdv/ttg                                              -               -:_ -.  -- "-   L
Tedmologic_allprovamuu           W_ter CoeEMol y                                       72        74       77        78        78
WVaer A plketiooEftlelo                      65       66        67       68        70       70
Toal Water mincy                             4 45     47   5Q            52       5 X
locsming Wter Diqolbily for      10' mn      14.8      15.3     16.1     17.0      17.7     18.1
Lend ua iftitay (croppodlp4ykal    5        122       126       13.3    140       144       14.7
Agroeconosnclmpv.-aae            Cropping Divossicelion (Inlve     X           5.7       7.5     10.3     12.7      14.1      15.0
Cr"pplngCroppdAna)
Cropping YiMa Jmpoven_mans man &                              _oi
-maine                                        4.3      43        4.4      4.7      5.1       5.4
w ybwa                                      2.3      2.3       2.4      2.5       2.6       2.7
Whoa                                          4.5      4.5       4.6      4.9      5.1       5.3
- cIem                                        8.0      $.1       8.5      9.0      9.5       9.8
. pobsto                                   23.0      23.3     24.2     25.S      26.7      27.4
Total prducaus puct:             10 too
s oy be                                       4.1      3.9       3.8      3.6      3.6       3.6
wh.d                                        3.5      3.5       3.5      3.6       2.6       3.7
. chilea .                                  8.5      8.5       8.7      8.8       8.9       9.0
*OWO pola1.1                                          1.2      1.4      1.5       1.6       1.7
8.0      2.9      3.1       3.5      3.5       5.6
Socioe.oaomIchapzo_             oW duct1uubmb product;             10' US$
.  _n                              1,
-    byaen                                    0.8      0.8       0.6      0.6      0.6       0.6
wheat                                         1.3      1.4       1.5      1.6       1.7      1.8
- chile m                                     1.5      1.6       1.8      2.0      2.2       2.4
. w.o                                         0.3      0.5       0.8      1.2       1.4       1.6
Tdd                                           0.5      u         u        L}        1.       L4
4.4      4.7      5.5       6.4      7.2       7.8
Usmumodimlmaom by s  eof         10 US$
helv                             per
II1(O  eandlin)                 Yw           4.2      6.3       6.7      6.3      6.5       6.
e 2 (we  10 & 30 ha)                         20.5     48 7      70.7     76.5     77.9      788
0 S (301he a iMM)                            17.2      50.7     56.3     61.5      66.7     6o
Mediutmi  ome by Uer                          63       11.0     16.7     17.8      18.6      186
m.um .   .   _ ,byJ                     .    0.6       0.9       1.4      1.5       1.6       1.6
1/ N.mmleea



ANNEX J
-  86  -                            Page 10 of 34
SECTION 2. PROJECT UNIT AND PROJECT MOWITORING SYSTEM
1. Introduction
1.    The Project Management System (PMS) has been conceived as a PDPR instrument which allows it:
(a)    To assign the available funds to the most privately and socially profitable, productive, qrd
resources-onserving tasks;
(b)    To establish agreements between the CNA and the producers' organizations to perform
actions and works;
(c)    To integrate programs to regulate the execution of works and agreed actions; and
(d)    To verify progress in the execution of works, to support the Project Support Unit (PSU) in
intervening in aspects requiring special processes, as well as providing feedback on
implementation and on improving the design of new investwmnt projects. The PMS must
also produce periodic reports for the Federal Government and the World Bank, measuring
the progress of the Project and indicating, if necessary, supplementary measures.
2.    In a changing environment, the PMS must be flexible and dynamic enough to adapt to rhythms
distinct to the producers who enter the PDPR; modify original technical parameters based on the project
experiences; and administer scarce public resources. It must also emphasize its participatory character,
leaving private investment as motor for the overall process.
3.    The PMS consists of five subsystems: Planning, Programming, Execution, Follow-Up, and
Evaluation. In the case of the PDPR, the implementation of these subsystems will encounter special
difficulties as it will be necessary to harmonize two different management systems: that of the CNA, and
those used by WUOs participating in the Project.
4.    This document describes the basic character of the PMS, and the procedures to be used to
coordinate the private and public management systems. It is also oudines the tasks to be carried out to
conclude the design and implementation of this coordination. The organization that a PU must have to
fulfill its obligations is also emphasized, in addition to indicating characterisics of the monitoring reports.
H. System Reference Framework
A. The General Conte  of the PDPR
5.      The On-farm and Minor Irrig4 on Networks Improvement Project is one part of the
Government's program to modernize the country.
6.     Implementation of the PDPR is intended to apply the national economic strategy to the
agricultural sector, in a sustainable development scheme for irrigated agriculture. The PSDR also
consolidates the transfer of irrigation districts (lDs) to users, and promotes their operation under highly
productive efficienc standards.
7.      The Project use private investment as the main agent of development, orienting it to help
increase productivity levels, which translates into increases in producer revenues and, consequently, higher
agricultural production and more rational use of naural resources.



-  87  -                               ANNE J
Pae It of 34
S.      ITfe Project also incorporates the practice of advanced Irrigation technologies which help to
support a modern agricultural sector, capable of responding productively to the changes in the nadonal
domestic market, notably the reduction in basic product subsidies, and to competition In Lnternational
markets..
9.      The PDPR represents the continuation of a set of programs, among which are the Invent
Program in Irrigation and Drainage ("Time Slice') and the Program for the Efficient Use of Water and
Electrical Energy, both intended to improve the productivity of irrigated agriculture.
10.    Ihe Project Is distinguished from earlier programs by being based on private sector idtiatlve and
with the primary impact at the level of the farm, where it is possible to capitalize on the Infrastructure
created in the larger networks ("Time Slice"), and the minor networks which belong to the Project itself.
B. Basic Characteristics of the PDPR
i1.    The Project is based on the initiative of individual producers, organized to carry on irrigation
works which improve the operating efficiency of their farms.
12.    Execution of the works Is supported by public investments in inter-farm networks, whose cost Is
partly recovered, and which reinforces the viability of the projects initiated by the producers. lTe Project is
also supported by the Federal Government in environmental matters, oriented on the one hand toward the
stabilization of aquifers and the better use of saline soils and, on the other, to mitigating the impact on
producers of the reduction in water volumes extracted from overexploited aquifers, and saline soils.
13.    PDPR support refers likewise, to technical, technological, training, research, and assistance to
producers components.
14.    Overall, producers' initiatives drive the development of the PDPR. In turn, the Federal
Govenment (through the CNA), will implement agreed actions that augment the economic and financa
viability of these private investments.
C. PMS General Context
15.    Ihe structure of the PDPR determines that the PMS, which is the instrument for its execution,
will also require special elements.
16.    In principle, it is necessary to adopt the CNA mzanagemQnt systems for Implementg the actions
under its control-that is, the bidding and acquisition of machinery, equipment, and constuction
industriized materials; and the elaboration of feasibility studies, exective designs, and the consauctio
of civil works.
17.    On their side, WUOs will follow their own procedures in carrying out the works and amortzing
the recoverable part of the cost of public works, machinery and equipment, and construction matrials.
18.    The participation of private and public investment in the execution of the PDPR is shown In chart
D.I.2. The chart shows the interdependent character of activities carried out by the WUOs and those of
the CNAL. hs link extends to the works programming procss as well to follow up and to the
prentation of reports to the Federal Government and the World Bank, which require consolIdated data for
the Project as a whole.



ANNEXJ
_  88  -                                Page 12 of 34
19.    Consider  the points noted above, it is imperadve toat the PMS design contain elemenut which
hamonize the procedures of public and private management, so that the PDPR may advance In coordinated
maer in the fulfillment of its objectives.
M. Adopted Solution
A. C     h      on and Objectives
20.    To be capable of harmonizing the producers organizatlons' management systems with those of the
CNA, It is proposed that the PMS adopt the following group of objectives:
(a)    General: Guarantee that the PDPR fulfills its goals, and generate reports useful for
decision making; and
(b)   Specific: Easure that:
(i)    Each Subproect, and the parts of the Thematic Program, have a defined program
for their esecudon;
il)   Each executor knows Its specific responsibilides; and
OiR)   The flfillment of global and annual goals, in terms of both products and results,
can be verified.
D. Systm Stuctur
21.     a line with these objectives, the PMS has been structed into five sges or subystems:
Planning, Progrming, Execution, Follow Up and Evaluadon (see Chart 1).
C t
V-~~~~~~I
,___ -  _-__--------
*,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 5                          r
;   .                                      * ---------- - ---I 
I
I " . ~I !m . 1
Ceo__   _



-  89  -                               ANNEC J
Pagp 13 of 34
C. System Elements
Planning Element
22.   The Planning stage is based on a previous conceptualization stage, which defined the objectlva,
strategies, and general policies which govern Project development.
23.   This element establishes the general goals for the Project over its lifespan of five years.  ese
goals must refer both to the physical works as well as to the related investments and the levels of
recovery of public investments to be achieved.
24.   Advances in PDPR design cover this general planning stage, which is reviewed each yea, in
addition to a more detailed analysis in the medium term review context (October 97).
Proamming
25.   The Programming element translates the general multiyear planning Io annual opeatg
programs. This phase is described in the Operting Rules of PDPR, where procedures are based on
user demand for Project participation, along with eligibility criteda.
26.   Applications to the project are analyzed and selected by the CNA, based on cs  of
the works a .4 proposed actions, and on the resources available in the CNA, from govenment fbids
and from the . i rld Bank counterparL
27.   The Project's annual program is based on:
(a)    Directions for anmnal programming, in which, based on 'financda ceilings and the
consolidation of requirements, a general proposal is established for the program
operations for the coming year;
(b)    Analysis of the General Subdirection of Hydro-Agricultural Infastructure;
(c)    World Bank review; and
(d)    Program nornalization, once the Congress has approved the Commissiobuget
28.   Work progm ng i to be done by the users, intally based on their own prposs. Later,
detailed elements concning the support of the commecia bans and the development banks wil be
added from feasibility studies, signed agreemen  with the CNA, and the results of detailed desig
projects.
29.   The pro     ng element wil consider two tpes of pro      c units: Subprojects and the
Thematic Program. For each, this element will indicate those responsible for execution, the goas
(products and results), and the necessary investments. As a result, annual por g wil co
the general planning of the actions, and the part of each Subproject exected to be concluded inga Sim
year, as indicated in Chart 2.



90  -                             ANE 
Pa14 lof34
Cb Iz
terJ -Yw2   Yar3   Year4
-         ,-. 
_'asT (rebsa S.ppO         -        _                                      by T ltb m
A__       -       -,     --b   Ca         is 4-
ftoma Execution
S          ;     _ ,,          ~~~~~~~~~~~~______     _______
=_..-         -_       - . 
Poga Exeuton
30.   Program excumtion covers the elements needed for carrying ot the programmed works and
actions.
31.   For the CNA, this element starts with the signing of agreements with WUOs for the execudon
of works and acions in the wdules. This is followed by the tasks of bidding, contcting, filg
contac, preparing estimates, finishing and delivering works, and auditng and supervising te entire
pocess. To do tits, CNA management has aleay induded systems to do this within the Planning and
Follow Up System (SPS), developed by the Commission :tself.
32.   For producers, this element uses their own management systems, and no specific clearance
procedures are established in the PMS.
33.   The Technical Support, Training, and Communication component of the Project will be used to
strengthen the capacity of the WUOs to implement their work processes execution under the best
procedures and most feasible systems.



-  91  -                              Pa15E  34
handal Execution
34. For the CNA, this phase includes the gathering of funds to finance the works, liquidated
estimates, and In general, all the procedures which govern the use of resources from each of the
sources involved in financing this part of the Project: that is, the Federal budget and the World Bank. It
also refers to the financial involvement of producers, with their own resources and banking credits,
under the management rules of the latter.
Progam Folow-Up
35.   This phase is oriented to verifying that Project implementation, as well as Inputs and procees,
is consistent with the program, in order to identify possible deviations or Inadequate procedumes, and, If
necessary, to apply corrective measures and inform top administrative levels of these changes.
Program follow-up must leave room for adjustments under the annual program.
36.   Physical indicators to be used for the follow-up of the PDPR are presented in Tables J-2-1.1
and
1-2-I.A. In addition, those related to the application of resources and disbursements are considered.
Evaluation of Results
37.   Evaluation tasks will be oriented to verify if results are being obtained, and if they are, to
identifying possible causes of deviations and changes that may be present in the Project's economic
environment.
38.   In some cases, modifications will follow execution and are correctable; others, may reflect
changes in economic environment. The former require establishment of an evaluation system of
*witness* modules with characterics similar to those studied, to ensure evaluation reliability.
39.   Results shall be evaluated once projects have been implemented and operadons have begun.
40.   bIformation deived from the evaluation of results must feed back into general plamdng, and,
when dealing with general deviations in execution, into the anmnal programming.
41.   The evaluation indicators for results are indicated in Tables J-2-lI and 1-2-l.A.
D. Compliance Stategy
42.   Since it is necessay to consolidate the anmnal program, the WUO must harmonize
programming with that of the CNA, and a coordination process will therefore be needed through the
PSU. This codnation will start one year prior to the programmed period, and will begin with
preliminary stipulations which will be modified from dme to time, until a definite budget-program Is
developed.
43.   Since the CNA has an effective function for Programming and Follow Up (SPS), its annual
paricipation in the project, must reflect the three phases for gathering results, that is:



ANNE X
-  92  -                            Pag 16 of 34
bputs      j  -=                 Processes                          Results
Fmancial                          Acquisitions                     Acquired
resurces              .                                                /Ra
Organization                      Bids                             Completed
worls
Time                              Estimates                        Fulfilled
objectives
44.   For the producer organizations, programming will affect only two parts of the scheme-that is,
Inputs and results-and will leave the relative to the process, without considering within the
programming, since this part correcponds to the producers' management.
45.   Concerning the execution of works and finincing, the CNA and the WUOs wil cover this
phase as per their own management systems.
46.   In reltion to foUow up and evahation, it will be necessary to exchange information that
allows the Project Support Unit to integrate reports from the CNA itself, the producers organizations,
the treasury authorities, and the World Bank (see Chart 3).
Chart 3
ON-FARM AMD MINOR DUUGAMTON
WORIMPROVEImT PROC
U-BS
CNA                         |                          . .... . ORG TON
PROGRAMG                  < =--==>  PROGRAMMING
PHYSICAL EXECUTION                         PHYSICAL EXECUTION
FINANCIAL EXECUTION                        FINANCIAL EXECUTION
FOLLOW UP                 c====->  FOLLOW-UP
EVALUATION                <*-->  EVALUATION
47.   Thus, the fiulment strategy will resume in planing the subprojects in common among the
CNA and the WUOs; in carrying out separately the execution of works and their financing; and in
carrying on joindy the tasks of follow-up and evaluation.



-  93  -                           ANNE  I
Pge 17 of 34
E. SpecIfIcations of Solutions
48.   In order to make this coordination strategy feasible, the information to be exchanged about
annual programming, in addition to that arising from the agreements and proposals e.--a without
agreement, is the following:
49.   From the CNA to the users associations:
(a)    Financial ceilings applicable to subprojects in relation to inter-farm works and
material acquisitions; and
(b)   Programming of the Thematic Program.
50.   From the Users Associations to the CNA:
(a)    Programming of farm works to be done in the year; and
(b)   Financial sources (credit, own resources), and probable amounts to be obtained in the
year.
51.   As far as follow-up and evaluation are concerned, the exchange would refer to:
52.   From the CNA to the WUOs:
(a)    Advance information on inter-farm works;
*b)   Advance information on investments; and
(c)   Impact on indicators of inter-farms work operations.
53.   From the WUOs to the CNA:
(a)    Advance information on inter-farm works;
(b)    Advance information on investments per resources source; and
(c)    Advance information on the recovery of public investment.
54.   With the information about annual programming to be exchanged, it would be feasible for the
Project Support Unit to elaborate the budgetary programs each year as integrated into the Project as a
whole.
55.   Reports to be elaborated by representatives of the CNA in the Districts, along wfth the field
inspections made and the reports obtained by FIRA, IMTA, and other entities that participate in the
Project, would make it possible for the Project Support Unit to produce periodic reports for the CNA
itself, the WUOs, the World Bank, and the Federal Government.
56.   The report to the CNA and the WUOs would aim to promote very short decisio ng
terms, as these reports are quarterly, with a maximum delay of one month.
57.   The reports to the CNA administrative and operating areas shall contain all of the follow-up
and evaluation indicators which correspond to the period to be reported, including detaile4
inormation on each subproject by module and topic.



ANNEX J
94                                Page 18 of 34
58.   Reports to the WUOs will refir only to corresponding modules and to the topic actions related to
them.
59.   For the Federal Government and the World Bank, two annual reports will be made: one in March
and one in mid September, to coincide with the programming cycle for the next year.
F. PMS Compliance Consideration
60.   Tne former sections have outlined the basic elements that must govern PMS design. For this system
to be converted into an instrument useful for the execution of the PDPR, its design and definite
instrumention must be defined until the following December.
61.   The selected WUOs will participate in the subproject design and decision miking from the feasibility
up to the design process.
62.   Computerized systems as in IDSP will be used where the data coming from the SPS and the WUOs
is initially captured by hand.
63.   The sequence proposed to develop the procedure indicated is stated in Chart 4. As noted in Chart
4, development of the management system and the supporting information system is parallel. The first
guarntees the existence of a managerial system, even without procedures for procurement and computerized
processing of data.
64.   The suggested chronogram is presented in Chart S.
IV. Project Support Unit Organization and Operation
65.    The PDPR is a complex project to implement because It requires the coordinatd participation of
several CNA admiiistrative units in addition to the WUOs from the selected modules. Coordination of
actions is to be promoted by the Project Support Unit (PU). It is a substantial task to demand the training
to plan actions, monitor the results, and support those involved in the fulfillment of their functions in the
Project. In order to diminish the related risks, the PU will promote the establishment of procedures which
determine the responsibilities of Project elements and the processes necessary for its Implemention.
66.   The PU is set up to:
(a)    Facilitae and promote insot al interaction among the WUOs and the CNA, and also
with the etenal public and private institons which participate in the PDPR;
(b)   Mainn the Inidal and subsequent visions of the PDPR, following up execution and
proposing needed changes;
(c)    Support programming and budgeting of investments and actions with the PDPR inWal
vision;
(d)   Promote and support the Irrigation District Chiefs in the fulfillment of their functions, as
well as insttional development; and
(e)    Provide adequate ifomation about implemenuion of the PDPR: NAFIN, the World Bank,
SCHP and their top management in CNA.



MCEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINRM  I GATION NETWORWtS VSMROVEMEWr PROJECTr
chrAlRV
Cit IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wmg--*- ACJ K bmt
I   I                                                ~~~~~~~~~II
OVAXULS        INITIAL                            MRINING FOR
N PD SYSTEM  _ DECISIONS                         _   AN RIAL
;                                ~~~~~~~~~~~tNSTRtlCT10N   AND ROUINE               DATA USE
t t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VLIDATtOX  
l                                                      | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SETTING No- |E                                         IA
|_  SPECIFICATI0"      PAUAGEtE   I.J AtO^Atl                                            _                     SETT&NG           EVALUATION_ 
NAPAERtAL|  Of RW ESUtE.   _            £4EW.                                                                                   Z"AERA AUTO*TtC _  OF RESULTS___
r"  PROPOA   I        PoEURE OF           STRIJCTURE AW                                        PROCEDUES__   DATA                                    OF 0SAwTI"C-
VA 1ATO          RPUICONS    _       FREMIENCY        _PROCESStNe                                                                                                  I |T
I    UES    PHS INVO"ATION $SrTEo                                           REPORTINIG    r.
I       ~~~SLWpORT                    ISETTIU DIRK-    INIiFO. MTENez  CONTENtT        -IF.SSf 
I           ~~~~~TIONK TO THE    I   LOStCAL DE-   StRUCWUK    iS   
~~~~~~~~~~~~INO  SYTE                                31IG ANAL.        AN       - _EVELOPHE
I~                                                                           14
I GUI-A-- - -  TO   I                  -            E
PMS MOAGERIAL AIS SUPPORT tiPOUEAtION SYS19>
OEVELOPIMt
II



MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MIKOR IRRIGATON NWFORKS IMOVMEN PROW=
chart v
Prjet Actvie Tmetsbles
ai e -- _y        1       2        3        4       5       a6       7        a       9       10      11       12
KodulelActivity                             Weektly   1   2  1 21  1 2 1 2 1 2 1                                 2 121 2 1 2 1 2 1 2
d    mvtl g_mud haIe_   at = _____PMS  Syste__m_
.1-    Spcifiaio of roudacs $d pioceedis                         *   *   *   o
1.2    Daeiablon of naugdl repolls                                _   _  o   o
1.3      awelopoicsof      andin    lws            _ _  _ __   *e____
1.4    UAWngtat of d lanNd       W             olilado                        __
'.5    Inlawsnamo" mana gd p      aws occdlPs  _  __o cc  ens                                 0   0   e   a   a  _                      _ _ __
*   BecudNW onawlow UPOffo)                                                                         0   0 8   8 0 
Evaxando Of isup o=                                           ------                 |---0 *o__                                           ___
1.6    Pcncat twa bZ uning in bao8 at s,y_uics                    =   =                                                                                                a00
1.7    haptenmcsadon of  l_tk p__oeosol
. ~        IEvuadon of  dtCSilS s
Dagi aad imgplan on of support laforunali_  system
2.1     Esbliab    of drctions                 _o *_
2.2     Oricnaautn for inawct'onof "W aN faciliaes        =      _ _ _ _                            - o *   o b *  e                      -       - _ _ _          -
2.3     Analysis of ogica design                      _                                o e         o o
2.4     Deftnla of data capture as                                _                                         o   o   0__                           _
2.5  SW dcvoopentw                                                       _. === ooeo* oe=
*   prostamad"n                                                                                  0 0         0         
.       l2scuduon au d forlow up of Ptog0am              _   _   _                                                                 *
. Evalaidon of mesus                                                                                                                     ego
2.6     Taining in anding of SW                                               _ _ _  _                                                           *   * _   _
. E*             d follow up oIfP_|
___ __ ___         __      ___         _                  - -                                     E E E --           -                -   -



-  97  -                              ANNEA   J
Pag 21 of 34
A. PU Structure
Project Unit Structure
rCOORDINtATION OF PROJECT  SITU|
B. PU Organization~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~. 
IADNINISMTIN
PLANNING                SUPPOT                   FOLLO UP
PROGRAMMIING        TECHNICAL SER'JICES         AND C00b11FATIOll
JDGETING AN                                        Of VA-PROJECTS
EVALUATION 
COORDINATION PCOTR
3B. PU Orgazdon
67.   The PU is organized at the CNA's central level, and will provide support to the Irrigation Disict
Chiefs with selected modules.
(a)    Central Level Organization:
fi)    One Unit Cor iinator, with an administrative and contacting support unit; and
Cii)    Covering the Areas of:
a.    Planing, Programming, Budgeting, and Evaluation;
b.    Technical Support Services; and
c.    Follow-up and Coordination of Subprojects
(b)    Decentraized Level Orgazation, at the Irrigatuon District Chief levd: Activities will be
developed through the rrigation District Chief, whose thority will be streneed to
support tndardizn, and the promotion and coordination relat  to the PDPR. Specfic
reiforcement for technological, material, and human resources are Included in the PDPR
Technical Support Compnent.
C. PU Staff
(a)    Unit Head:
OI)      Propo ornaon and fiucioning of unit, including the coordnato with the
Irrigation District Chief; issue the organization and opetion manuas supportig th
applicable dispositions; and
OI)   Rerent the Subdirwion General de Infraestr-ctura Hidroagrfcola (SOA), in
signing aeements and covenants about PDPR matters tat promo  and a
execuion, as per stadards.



-   98   -                  ~~~~~ANNEX I
_  98  -                              PPae 22 of 34
Ob)    Planng, Programming, Budgeting, and Evaluation Area:
(i)    Responsible for continuous strategic planning of PDPR;
(ii)   Integration of programs relative to PDPR components;
(iii)   Establish an interactive planning system that oases the development of PDPR phases;
(iv)   Integrate the multiyear budget and the yearly budget of PDPR, intercting with the
corresponding CNA operating areas and other institltions involved in the
Subprojects;
(v)   Evaluate applications for eligibility for performing feasibility studies and for
reprogrammir.g and budgeting of subprojects;
(vi)   Carry out the proceeds of credit exercise before NAFIN and feder allocations for
PDPR financing;
(vii)  Prepare PDPR reports for World Bank, NAFIN, and the CNA Technical
Committee; and
(viii)  Review documentation for international bids, as stated in the PDPR Credit
Contract
(c)    The Support Technical Services Area is charged with developing procedures, manas,
as well as actions and measures to support the rrigation District Chief to execute with
quality:
')    Promotion of irrigation project implementation at production unit level;
(iH)   Promotion of the proper Institutional development of the participating entities
and of WUOs involved in the Subprojects;
(iii)   The technical processes of tmining, communication, technological
moderization, and PDPR promotion;
(w)   Creation of instruments and work systems for implemening PDPR components
in each District;
(v)   Interaction with other projects and programs to guaranee the due presence of
the training, adaptation, and production technologies, and assurance of
operaing quality faors;
(vi) Advise the users on nratter of works contracting, services, and acquisitions;
(vii)  Stimulate and promote training for CNA staff participatig in a Subproject, so
as to ensure that they perform their duties with conscience, capacity, and
adequate attitude for coordinated execution; and
(viii)  Conftmiously improve the promotion, formulaton, and agree_m of
Subprojects.



-  99  -                                 ANNEX I
Pag 23 of 34
68.   lt is estimated that this area will be very active during the first phase of the Project. During
the second phase, when there are more Subprojects in execution, It will be Integrated with the Follow-
up and Monitoring element.
(a)    Follow-up and Monitoring.
(i)    Apply Project Management System to Follow 1'Jp;
(ii)   Register execution elements in advance of each program;
(iii)   Keep Project statistics;
(iv)   Support the irrigation DistriL Chiefs in monitoring the coordinated
performance of activities;
(v)    Close interaction with the regional and state managers and the Iriation
District Chief, to guarantee the information and comparative review of
corresponding cases;
(vi)   Ease interaction among institutions such as FIRA, INIFAP, commercial banks,
etc, and the users;
(vii)  Participate before CNA's panels in cases where the high risk of insufficient
proceeds threatens damage to the beneficiary users; and
(viii)  Prepare the reports required for the World Bank, NAFIN, and the CNA's
Technical Committee.
(b)    Administrative Unit
(1)    Responsible for the link with the Administration Submanager; and
(ii)   Processing and resolution of PU's material, financial, &nd human resources.
Coordinaion Promoters
69.   During the fist phase of the PDPR, when the participants begin to develop new ways of
coordinating actions required by the PDPR, the PDR Support Unit, through the Support Technical
Services Area, will have on staff Coordinaion Promoters.
70.   The main function of these Coordination Promoters is to help ensure that the CNA staff
partiating in a Subproject perform their duties with the conscience and capacity requied to achieve
coordintd execution and high quality service. Additionatly, they will become expert in these
processes and, profiting from their wider vision, will promote the exchange of experiences among local
ad state orgnizations. This small but high-quality and experienced planning group will be
complemented by consultants.
71.   Mm Coordination Promoters will guarantee coordination In the promotion, formulation, and
agreement of Subprojects; interelation with other projects and programs; assurance of operating
qualiy; follow-up and evaluation system. They wil have close interactions with the lIrgon
Districts Chi to guarantee the information and integral vision of the cases under their charge. lbese



ANNEX I
-  100  -                             Page 24 of 34
promoters wi also take the steps necessary to ease the Interaction between the institutions rendering
oOMPlemetay support services to the PDPR, such as FIRA, INIFAP, commercial banks, and others.
V. Monitoring Reports
72. The monthly reports to be formulated by the PU shall contain the information necessary to
monitor the Project. These reports will be based on the information gathered by the PU in the CNA's
SPS, and on the reports presented by the WUOs through the krigation Districts Chiefs.
73.   lhese reports will emphasize the verification of fulfillment of the annual programming,
comparig results reached with those submitted by the indicators of Implementation and impact (see
Working Pper -1) and the other aspects related to the implementation and management of the
Project. Ihe reports will serve the BIRF as well as the Mexican Government, and will provide a
common frme of reference for analysis and decisions.
74.   Ihe reports will have the following parts:
(a)    A summary of project implemenaion, which will describe Project implementation
wihin the reference period, commenting on the siuation In each component and on the
Project as a whole, indicating advances as scheduled and agreed with the Bank, as well
as the Project's general impact to date. It will also evaluate the performance of each of
the institudons involved, and of the effectiveness of the PU. In addition, the report
will provide information on basic management topics: government budget, cash flow,
expenses, acquisitions procedures, technical assistance, control of accounts, and
auditing. Questions and problems from prior reports will be addressed, and new or
remaining quesdons, as well as actions considered adequate, will be also discussed.
(b)    Physical indicators wiUl be used to demonstrate the stats of Project progress, having -
reference the indicators presented in Tables l-2-1Il.1, J-2-M.2 and J-2-1.3 in the
following pages (see also Project Working Paper D-I). Table J-2-M. 1 offers a
proposed fbnmat.
(c)    Faci  indicators shall be presented to show the effect of each of the resource
sources, with indicadons of the use of such resources (materials, equipments, civil
works, technical, and consulting services). Acquisition procedures and processes
advance for bids per expenses rank, in addition to estimates of expenses in general and
disbursements of the LAn, shall be informed. Table 1-2-M-2 provides a preliminary
scheme for presentation of the data.
(d)    Fulfillment of the following Project legal clauses as established in the Loan Contract
and in the SAR. Table J-2-1-3 presents a model to indicate such data.
75.   To present the above data indicated, the following Meport strucume may be adopted:
1.-    Gena   Summauy
(a)    Project Status
- Most importan recent events.
- Compliance of agreed program.



ANNWX J
-  101  -Pap 25 o 34
- Project Impact to date.
(b)    Project Administration
- Participation of resources sources.
- Disbursements.
- Acquisition procedures.
- Financial reports.
- Project technical assistance.
(c)    Project Organization and Coordination
- Monitoring and evaluation.
- Coordination among involved institutions.
(d)    Project Evaluation
- Advance of each component.
- Problems and measures to adopt.
(e)    Providence Balance
- Analysis of former pendings.
- Programming of providences to take.
2.    Attachment
Table J-2-L. 1
Table J-2-m.2
Table J-2-M.3



- 102 _AN-J
pap 26 of 34
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supervi,kon Plan
Table J-2-11.I
Project Report on Physical diucators
Period:
iaggom                     ussaosdm noat         RAOota  afaaa at ana   (a) a* C et
Oescrlpaiam  I  ~I*    Pr          U.a          U1aa    m 
s..-new   L Sne )           (I      S ew  (a)
-             -                                       -        -            --                      -          -       -           -ro   2  -
12=1221, en    Su= actXs of                                                           (do
~       lme6MlAty    St*ad±e= Oi1t5d par         0 
___< ~~~~Sam±a o1ed per   D   Ot
^_~~~~ tot 1 in o  cash   .td
tar Group  3
~   Shor cousns 0*   usoi
De,o1at    sacbdolag   stud  mmoss   Course
and arbor patasetamel._________.
Olpos course atc S ok 
a  aiu   ueofts=    C15505
Saisesd std  tor  dore                                         _
Shoxt ccs  tar            s
Plaid day argsaised.    5 at tiald
atceaa-e  at least 2      das
D .            1    sLaso s ea
O~~O       Staid, arvcs   rw
etac Co=ce  cappies                                           f_ *_                                          .
P m aat teabratory and eLacttomi  GMS 'NO
**"p-=
-            -        inhea. 
MOL-       quUt atllotyasin
AuA. repa  an  Oser                                                                    _ of
levoid maLosit"ra          eo
for stor
Aama&el~~ _eor  _msi. 8
seaicet         r satai   R
=6elatd for eac
eah   e distttCt
G.r7w   _roducaln at oil sp              '0  ha
desorlptloas.
ODS        dsigmari ase    e____
aupot  reftice end4
_   t   ~~~et hie        __          tl eta                                            ,
Czaft dcau     stag.      o   l
=P.- _"t                                                                             ._ d
tot to
Vqdeo ftil.. laaa. .
mevoLactors,  s6.        Uaig
prge1    ete proce
-             -                                      -          a          -       I    -           -          -       -           -te  e e



- 103 -
ANJX
PaE 27 of 34
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMN PROJECT
Supervion Pbn
Table J-2-1.l1
Project Report on Pbyical Inditors
(Contiuto
Period:
Llaotitpklno      a1 at       s     Uc ~ 1nA             1a                 c
t an . a  _               ls    in b l       .fD) I         l
-   -                    -        -        -         -          -       -      -         -
-~   ~lLei          Is.!~ae4se phooiaste, At O
9Z070    . basi IWJL
ndcend poasea        8 
snaslesm  Of VW        um
mlet1*=-? se0 O
Omni"det al    ed *s
paccoene  u t zt gues±m a
aggestise to    s/
Amm daatnh~ero% 
dms?, asuuag etc.
.~~~~~~~elte .    ,M C
emaogsa_d"
_wU t~m   Ser                    Ta/ _t
_' O s                                                 __-
sehe Smagtr          Bo SA
astha teede d8aut
eahils gt ShalIn. dstto
Case,~~ _he    Nhn
@.081 ps            a ui
-                 -                                -         -        -         - _       -        -     _ 



*  1.~~~~~~~~~~~~1.. 1  1.
24 I~I
o                  [I
oJ  '.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4AAA       



- 105                                          ANNEX I
Pap 29 of 34
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS JMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SupervIsi   Plan
Table J1411i.1A
IProjee Repo  oan Ptu, l catoi.
Period:__I
MODULE: # 8                               District: Rio ±dayo (038)
.U*.so Pan  " act           an es     E) op ,e I
Gff_%       so-i"        gi'  at amarid
-                 -      . _ ___ __ ___     _     _ ~       m    Ui*ss*nofE46(6r
_-                                    -         -         - t         -            -
Gig-POrn   mine  O41a.S mm ~aimsieop       YIa4
r~~~~~~O   dri                  u s   t
-                     Ce-                  C
Pgo C   to" t _ bidet  * _e.
-0       UX . .wgt-                       -         -                         
em ~~~* rn
J.i"O  Na wa ua.
$Daau pipe 1ayt     mmSa
GIr cg~              S usa
ciao t uac  Nnn  ot    uam
_ld oiS 
V 1 9   UC&"t       GM
matotaL  -
Baspef"0obSmad la       aa
tooommoo ¶ 001 hamete 
Li p-lane               Na
Cyde  e                   euit    us
"Le 009"K_r
aba.   L.BA _5 dc_ _
-~            -                                  .5a  .s  _            _            _              _  
puma  ci __                          -     _                                           
i                          _   .                                _~a
........ .__ __....__   7w  .      .. 



ANNEX I
- 106 -                              pug 30 of 34
MEXCO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SupeLlo Plan
Tabe J341fli
PveJh Aminul Flasoch IWdks
Period:
-W -                -       m              
_ ~~       a_            __  A"_e 10 _w _   _i diLbm d 
wam. ago"' m0m. mms. .'
^-                   -.  -. -                              -        -                     =___
7m.        Ig4aw me  _
'-.4smaLlanum Othm  angum
_i _w  C:. .3 
OI-a .dw 11m  .. .~ mA
_     _           .              ...         .                    .eL S
uam                  aia    __ltu b
Md  _a   .3           .3 . 
__j           _                                                _     _      _ 
s"Ser~~ 1111 Iw tin  I Ia_
_aat       _mea   a-  II  . . _......t_



[E -    .~.WflW
t'            l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
ii~                       31__      01   XE
|§R:N  ff  i  i1           |                  S~~f.I 
I1W                  I   It[ il [                              i
I1,
rW I                           p 



mgnco
ON&AiM AND MNOR RRUGATION NE0TWORK  IbPOVE&IENT PROJECT
SUBSET OF DICATORS REATED TO nOJECT OB.ECTWI
TaM, J-241L4
.... e    .  ,.               ,- .  VII   ;  -: -::.!:..::  ..  : .YE.:' .MWIJ  ,               -      a.  ,_:
A. 3EDUC1ON OP       W atC yacEffckw                                70    75    79    82  S4    84
LOSS AND WASTM
OP WATER1It          waw APPRodion BMW="        %             65    66    67    68    68    69    69
ovuiJ E*iciey                            43    45    SO    53    56    S8    58
Cuaa vinSotwsrpetr    low                 -   175, 277   416   526   614  667
co
B. PROAMOTIN OF      _odl "M nud ___ w_  _                    12    42    444    44    44             44
DECENTRAIZAmON
AND PRIVATE                           _ a_st                   4    35    44    44    44    44    44
INVESTMES.
___Caipl  dua                   -               3 _I        33    38    41    44
C. INCREASEOF        1aoaunt inomapeda An-                                  2     6     is    24    24
CROPPIN
INTENiS AND          AMl PrdueSe Tergg             VoW mu   675  1720  1655  2112  2395  2610  2610
YWLDS                  _      _      _      _
D. DIVERSI1ICATION   lAwu  in Arm                  'h00a             5    10    Is    30    40    40
DM HIGHID-t
VALUE CROPS          Acs ProMes, Vahu              10 USS   460   476   532   629   741               u
AV As ofD D_ub 3f1 coubyr.



ANNEX I
-  109  -                              Page 33 of 34
SECTION 3. BANK SUPERVlISON PLAN
1.    The proposed project is rather complex and Is dispersed over 14 irritation districts hundreds of
miles apart. Because of their knowledge of Bank operation procedures like procurement and
disbursement, it will not be necessary to arrange a complex project launch workshop for NAFIN and
CNA staff. However, it would still be useful to have a workshop launch related to the project itself
with NAFIN, CNA Mexico Head Office, CNA participating RM offices, and participating IDs. This
launch workshop would be held immediately after project effectiveness. It would review the planned
budget and implementation schedules during the first year. Subsequenty, two supervision missions
should be held annually. The first, by late March, would focus on the construction and financial
results achieved during the previous year which would be listed in the annal report to be submitted to
the Bank no later than March 1 of each year. The second supervision mission would be the and
pre-constuction review of the project, and would be held no later than September 20 of each year.
That mission would review the proposed annual budget and work plan, which would be submitted to
the Bank no later than July 15 of each year. Both supervisions would include field visits to the sub-
project areas under implementation, meetings with the WUOs, visit to training sites, laboratories,
survey areas, etc. The total supervision input in staff-weeks estimated for the six-year project life
would be about 180 s.w.
2.    The schedules for project supervision are as follows:
Mission No. 1 Project launch Workshop and Annual Budget Review, May/June 1994
3.    This mission would focus on procurement, policy, regulatory and administrative changes,
planned budget, the Project Support Unit, the training and communications program, the Project
Monitoring System (PMS), reporting, feasibility studies and the progress of construction design, annual
bidding/contracts program, and the environmental program. Bank participants would be:
(a)    T ask Manager                   (2 staff weeks)
(b)   Agriculturalist/Agroeconomist    (1 staff week)
(c)    Engineer                        (1 staff week)
(d)   Lawyer                           (2 staff week)
(e)    Procurement                     (1 staff week)
(i)    Organization/Monitoring         (1 staff week)
Mission No. 2 FIrst Annual Budget and Planing Review, Septenber 1-30, 1994
4.    Focus: Budget review, implementation plannig and bidding program for 1995; progress
achieved to date especially with regard to regulatory changes, training, feasibility studies, construction
designs, negotiations with WUOs, and constuction. Bank participants (2 staff weeks each):
(a)    Task Manager
(b)   Lawyer
(c)    Agricultural Economist
(d)   Engineer
(e)    Credit Expert



-  110  _                            ANNEX1
Fage 34 of 34
Mission No. 3 Frt Annual Progrs Evaluation Reviw, March 10-30, 199 with FIdd Vist
5. Focus: progress implementation and achievement of results during the first year of the project
(1994 CY). Bank participants (2 staff weeks each):
(a)    Task Manager
(b)   Engineer
(c)    Agricultural Economist
(d)    Credit Expert
Misson No. 4 Seoond Annual Budget and Planning Review,
September 1-30, 1995 with HFeld Visits
6.    Focus: 1996 budget review; implementation plarming and bidding program; progress achieved
to da especially with respect to designs, construction, and agricultural results. Bank participants (2
staff weeks each):
(a)    Task Manager
(b)   Agronomist
(c)    Agricultura Economist
(d)   Credit Expert
Mission No. S Second Annual Progs Evaluation Review, Mrch 10- 30, 1996, with FSeld Visits
7.    Focus: progress implementation and achievement of agricultu  results during two yeas of
project implementation (1994 and 1995). Bank participants (2 staff weeks each):
(a)    Task Maager
(b)   Engineer
(c)    Agronomist
(d)   Agricultural Economist
(e)    Credit Expert
8.    Summary of Bank Supervision for the FIrst Two Yea
Estimated Time
(staff MM"
Planning and Programming                             5.0
Procurement/disbursement                            11.0
Engineering                                          8.0
Agriculture                                          4.0
Water Laws                                           3.0
Croit Expert                                         8.0
Agroeconomy                                          7.0
Reporting duties                                    l.
Total                                          61.0
9     For the six-year implementaion schedule the total estimate for supervision would be about 180
staff weeks.



-  111  -                             ANNEX K
Pue 1 of 4
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SELECTION OF SUB-PROJECTS
1.    For the selection of the modules to participate in the project, the following basic critsria were
applied first:
(a)    The district is included in the IDSP project (Loan 3419-ME) or does not require
rehabilitation in its major infastucture;
(b)    Module is successfully trasferred to its Water User Organization;
(c)    Module should be repvsentatve of its district;
(d)    Farmers have expressed interest in participating in the project;
(e)    Farmers have interest in technological change;
(t)    Module has physical charact6ristics that permit Improvements;
(g)    The module should be collecting its O&M costs in full.
2.    In the next step, CNA's OlRyDs which are attached to the IDs qualifying under para. I (a) above
eblished a set of 15 different rating criteria to rank the modules within their district. Values raniged
from 3: good; 2: average; to 1: poor or non-existent. Thus, the highest possible rating a module could
rweive was 45, and the lowest 15.
3.    The 15 ranldng criteria were divided into three groups:
(a)    Physia situation: Micro-relief condition, soil condition, condition of the teray canal
system, availability of check and measuring stru , and diage condition.
(b)    TechnIcal-admnstratIve sitoatlon: Use of agricultual technology, efficiency in on-
fim water application, soil conservation practice, and yield level of principal crops.
(c)    Size and parcipation: Irrigated area of module, number of farmers, location of module
(boundary conditions), interest in the proposed project by the farmers, and agricul. am
potential.
4.    For each district, modules were ranked in descendig order. TI  highest ranked modules,
belonging to 10 districts, were included in Group I of the project. A few more modules belonging to
other districts were initially also proposed for inclusion in Group I, but at the time of appraisal their
feasibiity stuies had not yet been completed.
S.    For the thee pilot zones to be included inside three pure groundwater districts, two major
additional critera for incluson were: all individual farmers should currently be applying irrigation by
gravity methods, regardless of the type of conveyance from the well to their field.
6.    Additionally, each selected module, should have a complete participative planning with a
feasibilit study whose economic justification analysis demonstrate an ERR over 12% and that the WOU's
genal assembly will accept the recommendations of the study.
7.    Attached Tables K-1, K-2, and K-3 list the main chaatestcs of the participating IDs and the
seletde modules f, - the first and second groups.



ANNEX K
-  112  -                                                Page 2 of 4
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MIROR IRRIGATION NETWORK IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SELECTION OF SUBSPROJECTS
Table K-1
Selected rrigfaton Districts (See Map IBRD No. 25140)
IJnlgsalon Dbc      _        _        Preset Irrlg.        No. of           Avers e         Execution
CNA I              Name                  state        Area (a) I/          fumers           lfamer          G
14    Rio Colorado                BC                       207,000             14,670            14.10       t, U
5     Delicias                   CIII                       75,200             9,070              8.30       L 11
41     Rio Yaqui                  SON                       233.200            22,000             10.60       I,L 
38     Rio Mayo                   SON                        95,900            11,560             8.30        , 11
76     Camzo                      SIN                        43,300             4,600             9.40        1, u
75     Rio Fueate                 SIN                       212,700            20,190             10.50       L U
63     Guasave                    SIN                       120,000            12,790             9.40        U
10     Cualiacan                  SIN                       272,800            27,500             9.90       1, n
17    Lalaguna                    Coah/DUR.                  87,000            33,180             2.60       1,U
i I    Alto Rio Larma             OTO                       111,500            23,340             4.80       1 II
I     Pabellon                   AGS                        11,900             1,990              6.00        11
97     LAa¢o Cardeas              MICH                       47,S00            10,990             4.30         I
26     Eajo Rio San Juan          TAWPS                      77,000             4,940             15.60       n
25    8b4o Rio Bravo              TAMPS                     201,700            14,170             14.20       U
Subttal Surofce Water                              1,797,000          210,990                -         -
66     Sto Doningo  2/            BCS                        3S,100             1350             28.20
37     Caborca   V                SON                        58,200             3,760             15.50
51    Costa Hermdlo 2V            SON                       164,200             2,550            14.20
Subtotal Groundwater                                260,500              7,660                  
-     TOTAL                       ________                                   218,650               _         -
S    .  For Gaup l: 1993 Fesbit  Stdis
Por Grup 11: 1990   a               de Dritos dRiogo'.
1/ Phya ipbl bodaar, mdin  dobb   eInp .
21 P  deipata undr il  adis peadn  of BDok plo  atoiation, as p iouy                        d in pas. 2.14 and 3.14.



113 -                                              ANNEXK
Page 3 of 4
M=CO
ON-WARM AND MINOR RRGATION NETWORKS I PAOUN  PROjECT
LIOFMODULEOD                   WEC  FOR THE FIRST YEAR PORAM (GROU I)
Tawl 1(4
biwdgUo              CNA          8. mwb              Am                                Iae          W I2 v00I
Side           Dbsutee            Numer   Module Number              (h)         Fan          Off-WhIm       O.fhbnu          Totaw
BC        RIoColamdo                   14               2                   6.460         476         2,760          5,839           8.599
Cj    jl na                            17              VI                   4,850       1.627         1.645          2.039          3.684
DUR
OTO       Alto VIi Lanu                               M td                  6,90        1.438         2,210          6,003           S273
CHI       Dda                          S                3                   5,860         416         1.478          4.418          5S.96
SIN       ElCaiizo                    76                2                   S,150         878         1,672          3,187          4,859
Rio Fuate                   75               n.2                 IS,900       1,639         8,139          7,779          15.918
Cusacan                      10             IV-2                 l,840        1,384         3,709         11,262         14,971
SON       RioMayo                     38                8                   3,770         314         1,649          2,095          3,744
RioYauqi                    41
IC441                8,390         894          1,787          3,528          5.315
4P.10                 2,080         143           443            875          1.318
4P412                 4,9W0         371         1,044          2,061          3,105
b81890       9,0          26,596         49,086         75482
BCS      -SWt Dominjo I                66           PiktAAre                2.;0          227                        4.93           4923
TOT   ____A_L         j                 1   bpmc                              9            26,596 A4,009                  80.405



n  -                  11e4of4
ONFARM AND liER  IIA7$ON 1411O  VAMVZM=f PROJ2
LWU OF MODULUIAJIOXC FM GROUP U
Ta3ky4
_...~m           CN&          a3S     .,         AM            b. _r1
8sa.                                     us" Nm.  ad Numb.                  ui,wo       Ofam          Ou.hauTon
130      ?I* Cehisi               14             64.23                              3702.                     3.721          a,09
1            11.230 It,=                 4.275          6.70          AM98
3                 10.A0           40          4031           4.32         10.35
4                  8.24t          390         3.1           4.=            8.0
COAK/   LALW=                     17                                4.9420        2.04          1.8           2.9            4,012
DM                                  ~~~~~~~~v 4.440                   1.790         1.69          2.644         4.42
0                  4A30          1.10          1.742         2.765      4*     7
xvi                 5.400          43          2.S5           32            5.2
OTO      AIoWs La=                11             IV1266                           2450          4.819         7.42          mist8
vI                 8.30          1.M0          3.14          5.011          8.20
cm        WMu.&.                  S              4                  7.810           40          2.973         41             7438
2                  4220           I80         2364          3.709          4.03
7                28.440         2.90           .617         13.22         22.139
I  E C74o                         1.430        $19           8.III         I3.280
sot      Pie room                 7              14                148J2O           40          3.428         8.517         13.
1I                18.43          2.5           7,448        11.719        19,187
SW1       Dmdc                    43             24                 Ut.=          2.40          4.749        10.9           17.339
SIR      Cv.~                     I0             34                14u0n            460         6.098         9.30         1IS6,
V.1               t5.80          tin7          6.014         9.437         I5.45
.                '  4            2.370         8,6.1        13.451         22.20
Sam       Pi                      se              S                  .21010                     2.014         3.140         I.1
4                 7go090                      2.99          4.64           7.68
l0                 S.130          440         1.40           3.074         5.03d
SONalsi.                          41          C.uas                 40N             440         1.08          2.44          4.M39
44                  3.20           340          .229         I92"           3.1538
KW                  400            410         I.4T3          2.423         4.03
Ks                  7.0             80         2sn            4.659         7.48S
mm03.5                            240         1.34           2.144         3.1
829                 1.450          10d    4 1 2                8"           1.411
AOS      Pabdlsu                   1                                840             950         5197           5.017         U14
NOON    L       0.MCAdm           91?            10                 10.45          WC9          3.82           4.0           9.838
TAMP    a      M. lSMA            26             1.                 Lao0            5s0         337            1.268         L.6
TAMPS   BfjO Rio have             2S           Amodi                3.300            10         1.M            17            327
d                  t30796          270       116941        u1              31
SON'     Cab.in II                ST          PlsAtm                 1.300           30             0          UN            2.90
MN3      Osafd. Ik"miIbo          St          IUAMu                  I.              39             0          U.47          3.W6
SIaI 21_                                                    . 83"          69             0          43467         64.
________       _ 3eR                   38.439       116.I1t       189.48t        3022t
Su_ ---tY,4tX25_



ANNEX L
-  115  -                              Frag 1 0r 4
MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NErWORKS
EMROVED MT PROJECr
FFASIB 1T  S      $UDIES AND CONSTRUC'I[ON DESIGNS SCHEDULES
1.    One of the major risb identified for this project durng preparation stages was hie
accomplishment of efficient and timely prepamion of sub-project including feasibility studies,
constuction designs, and negotiations, and implemenaion/repayment agreements between the WUOs
and CNA. Pst experience in Mexico indicates that this is a major risk which should be addressed
carefully.
2.    The Wlowing 1tbles, L-1, L-2 and L-3 reflect a simulation of this critical path and the
imporamce in paying attention to the issue which is addressed in the project conditionalities and
agreement (see SAR para. 4.1 (c), 4.2 (a) and (c), 4.3 (b), 4.4 (a), and 4.5 (a)).
3.    The analysis of the atached lbbles suggest that special atention should be paid to the
modules over 10,000 ha. and thus priority should be given to its preparation (feasibility and
construction designs).



MEIaCO
ON-FARM AND MINOR RRGATION NETWORKS IMPOVEMT PROJECT
FEASIBILITY STUDIES AND CONSMRUCTION DESIGNS SCHEDULES
GROUP I
Table -1
JMgadh                  itIeI Utt          Am             Told               SIbI3          Agrtment         Det _____            _Aeeen          CEaidom  41
3*wkt                    Mo".             (ha)        Num_er o         OeR    Cm e    nIWUO               Bepin     Compkt_ V hWUO  3 e&                 omple
__________._  ,_____                                         Faum          mo   !L.    _                       JB.  _~. a...~Z.                             
RbCOe do                              2                   6.460           476    Now"2        Al"            Sep.93    Oct-"                       Sep-"94   Ap-        S-
UoYed                                K41                  8390            894    Novt2        Ju"3           Sep93    Ot.93         Ma-94          gp4   AuWg            lsp-97
4-10                 2060            143    N-           Am-;           Sep.93    Oct."        May-94          Sep-94   Apr.6       ep
4P-W                 4$900           371    No-2         Ju93           Sep.9    Od3           Ma,             Sp94   Apr-"        Sep-
Rb. May.2f V                                              3.770           314    No4           i..           Se"      oit-93         ApO94         Ag94   Apr-S         Sep-"5
cdnma V                              IV-2                11t40           1,384    Novt           -          Au9       SWp93         Mo9            Sep94   Apr-95       Sep-9
E1 Curb.                               2                  tSO             372    Nov9         Am-93         Aug9       Sep-93        Mar94          Ju144  Au-4         Sep-9
RbP Fueut 2(                          11-2               12,900          1,639    Nov92       An93           SeW      Oct91          UaY4          Sep-94   Ar-9S       Sp9
Ale Ri. AMa                         mi a                  6,690          1,433    Nov92       A"n93          Sep.     Oct-"         Mar94           Jul-94  A94         Se96
Del.!.                                3                   5AO60           416    Nov-92       Ju-93         Aug"      S-P            f b-94        Jun-94   Jul-94      SeW96
1LaLA1                                VI                  4.,50          1,62     Nov-92      An"           AA"       Sep.93         Fb-94         Jun       Jul-4      S"
DouP;lOt a                                               2,200           227    No               3         Aug9      Se-9          Mr              Ju-9   Jus9         Jun-
,I A pae of fowr moobs is mmed tO O1abD (1) dt Codowt Apmee wit do WUOD. (a) rdit for sh WUG, (iii) to co       " dcodahaut be he SCrl, (lIr) to _hbe C94pew ad
Zi SpeoW elal loe.  Va.oed up C.uuitrnApaed, D-p peod ad Cadmus Agrmemen p-oe dpavigat of comtualndt July/A "t 194.
It Coreuwzae dluics ba. to wait for coeyktim.of Atio PlAn by June 1995 befoes eogrucloscam dag, buat is nit macepulbb to egpiag soaaa Uutatmooem.
W  Conotneeien sat ia April, Am to Marcb baou ioveru  irdgmm NopLe 
gI Te muilky am" wm  iewed by th Ba ad FAOCP as apprisaL



MEICO
ON-FARM AND MIOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS MOROVEMENT PROJECT
FEASIBILITY STUDIES AND CONSTRUCTION DESIGNS SCHEDULES
GROUP if
Table 1.4
Co__mtn                                  Contrad
xlpedgalo             XSbpaojettl          Ara           Todal                  sl,t ady   Agreemnt         Design_    Agretment                   Con   act
Dhatt                   Module            (b)         Nnlberef    BDegh       C kete        th WUO      Begin     Comple        with WUO        Begin     Comlet
F_ _Moir_Faer  o        j"           nw/yr       mo/yr       mo/yr         mo-/yr       mo/r         o/yr
El Caizo                              3                 13,530          1,430    Aug93       Dec-93        Ma-94    Apc-94         Oct-94        Feb-95      Apr-95      Sep9
oina                                 3-2                16,020           660    Nov-93      May94          Aug-94    Se94          Mar-95         Jul-95     Aug-9       Sep-9
V4                 135,800        1,t70    May-94      Nov-94         Feb.95   Mar-95        Sep-95         J-%96       Apr-96     Sq
1-3               22.520          2,370    Jun93       Dec93          Mar-94   Apr-94        O-94           Fb95        Apr-95     Sepl01
Rio Fuate                            f-1                14,260           650     Jan-94     May-94         Sep-94    Oct-94        Apr-95        Aog,95      Apr-96      Sep-99
I-i               19,0            2.520     Jun-93     Dec-93        M-94   A94               t94           Feb-95      Apr-95     Sp
Gaae                                 3-2                17,730          2,340    Jn93        Feb-94        May-94    Jn94          Dec-94        Apr-95      May-        Se99 
lALAgMa                              Xli                 4,92t          2,040    Jun-93     Nov-93         Feb-94   Mar-94         Sep-94        JAn-95      Apr-95      Sep-9)6
V                  4.460          1,790    Feb-93     Jan-94         Apr.94   May-94        Nov-94         Mar-95      Apr-95     Sep-96
Xl                 4,630          1,920    Oct-93      Apr-           Jul-94   Aug-94        Fb9s          Jun-9        Jul-95     Sep-9
xvi                 5,400          1,630    Jan-94     Jun-9          Sep-94    Oct.94        Apr-95        Aug-95      Apr-96     Sep-97
AlobRio Lenna                        IV                 12,660          2,150    Oct-93      Feb94        My94   Jun-94            Dec-94        Apr-95      May-95      Sep-91
VII                 S390           1,300    J-94       Jun-94         Sep-94    Oct-9        Apr-95        Aug-95       Apr-96     Sep.9
Rio Mao                               5                  5,290          1,040     Jul-93    Nov-93         Feb-94   Mar-94         Sep94         J95         Apr-95     Sep8
6                  7,860           900     Jul-93     NoV93          Feb-94   Mar-94             4         J-95        Apr-95     Sp-97
.           10                  5,150           400    Nov-93      Ma-94          Jun94    Jul-94         Jan-95       May-95       Jun-95     Sp96
Rio Ypaqi                         Cecpace                4,460           460      Jul-93    Nov-93         Feb-94   Mar-94         Sep-94        Jan-95     Arw-95      Se-96
K44                 3,230           340     Feb-94     JUn-94         Sep.94    Oct-94       Apr-95        Aug-95       Apr-96     Sqp.96
K73                 4,400           410    Sep.93      Fd"94         May94   Jun-94          Dec-94         Apr-95     May-95      Sqe96
K79                 7,J00           680     Jul-93     Nov-93         Feb-94   Mar-94        Sep94          baF-95      Apr-95     Sep-97
K66                 3,59            240    Mar-94       Jul-94        Oct-94   Jan-95         Jul-95       Nov-95       Apr-96     Sep-96
,_____________________ .          K39 _               1.450           160    Aug-9       Dec-94         Mar95   Apr-95         O-9            F-961       Apr-96     Sq,.9t6



umDco
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGA'IION NLrWORJS IMOVEMENT PROJET
FEASIBILTY STUDIES AND CONSRUCTION DESIGNS SCIEDULES
GROUP HI
Tamle 1,-S
e_mme Cnd
Irrlgdh.                Subpr.JeetI        Ar             T4d1              P _l1  Ode  AVeMen                Dep   __ __                            Co
Ddabkg                  Module            e()         NumbeWrC        Beef    C_ua$t        utIWUO        Be&       Complete      ubWUO         _egn    Cmplet
_  ________                         Fan           m          y   M                     maor         o            m           . 4 r.          t    -
thVolund.                             6                   6,0             370      Apf-94     Sp94           Dec-94   j195           JuS5          N95          Apr-%      Sep
I                 11,230           640      Jul-93     Nov69          Fb94   Mar-94           Bq-94          an-95       Apr.95     Sep9
3                 10,590           600      SWp3        Ji9"          Apr-94   May-94        Nov94          Mar.95       A45        Sep.9"
4                  1,240           390    Nov43        Mar-4          Jun.94    Jul-94        J1-95         May5         Apr-6      Sep-t
DOWNim                                4                   7.810           680    N            Mar-94         Jun-94     l<-94        Jn95            yS         Ju-95      SWp9
2                  6,210            530     Ja-94      May94          Aug-94    Sp94          MS-95          Js45       AM95        S97
7                 22,640          2,340     SpW93         -9          Ap94   May-94          NOW94          Mr-95        Apr-95     SepOI 
Pallwa                                 1                  2.400           930      Apr.93     A-9"          Nov-93   Dec-93          Jun-94        Oct-4        Apr-95     Sep97-
lamCardm                              10                 10.00           3,900     Jul-       Dec-93         Mkr-94   Apr94          Oct-94         Fdb         Apr-95     Sep97
Bio lUo S  Jen                        11-2                8.820           550       u93       No93           Feb-94   Mar-94         Sqp-94         Jan.9       Apr-95     Sp97
B*  Rio Rm                          Anghe                 3,300              0    Aug93       No93           Mar-94    Apr.94        Oct-94         Feb95       Apr-95     Sep.95
Coa Ham"o  1/                    an                       1,50             39      Jun.93     Aug93          Nov94   Deo-94           Jul-95       NoV-9S       Dec-95     Sep-96
C dbu       _ _               I ibt M,0                                           Jun-93     Aug-93                  Dec-94         Jul-9         Nov.95       Dec-9      S9
U/ OraudR    Euasinrv Mnoamtutie haso wa Idilcopeion aCAdi. Plasby Sepd_be1995. C_ naiond laceIlued by rpaqng seso  imilask



- 119 -                                    ANNEX M
Page 1 of S
MEXaCO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRIMGATION NETWORKS JMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC INVESTMENT COSr RECOVERY
L Cost Recovery
1.     A total cost recovery figure of about 68% is expected from the project as a wbole. The Bank and the
Government would finance about 59.3% of the total project investment (USS 568.8 million), beneficiaries would
cover the remaining 40.7% with cash and credits (private banks-FIRAWBANCOME4Cr/NAFIN scheme). Thn
following Chart M. 1 presents investment, financing, and recovery of the Bank loan and government funds.
Chart M.1
Jnvaestai Jinancg mm00US$)       PWbMt    Fed"s~
Invstn   Goverumait Not
- = ==  -  =  _ _    _                   rXc  F             Rel-
Ciont                  Gov.    Dole&      Tota   Fe. Gov. 1 e            W 00   |   S
_ 1   cdazle ii           con&.(%)             IS    I
A. Tech. Suppon Coma  Train         39.6      -        39.6        100        0      39.6    C100
B. Off-farm Improvemets             259.5     -        259.5        100      46      140.7    54
- Frield Surv. Efg. Serv., Design and Sup.  19.5  -    19.5        100        0      19.5    100
- Cil Works                         98.2               98.2        100       S0      49.1     50
- Iventoy Conol & Audidtg            2.4                2.4        100       S0       2.4    100
- Procumnt of Machiney              66.0      -        66.0        100       50      33.0     so
- Ptocurenieof ConsanctonMatefiab   73.4      -        73.4        100       S0      36.7     S0
C. Ou-tirInn rovemenas              44.1    225.5      269.6        is      100       -
- Agricrl equipmwat                          105.4    105.4          0                ,             l
- ConatucioaMiatedaas               44.1               44.1        100       100
- Cil Works                           -      120.1     120.1         0        --               -
Total                               337.2    225.S     568.8        593      68      180.3     32
1/ IncElding DIRD
2/ Inchluding ons from private banks - F1LA/BANCOMET/NAJPIN
2.     A total of US$ 21.9 million, 6% of the USS 337.2 million from Federal Government and IBRD funds,
would not be recovered since some benefits go beyond direct project beneficiaries in the core area. Such Is the
case of the following sub-components: technical support, communications, and training (US$ 39.8 million); field
surveys, engineering services, design, and supervision (USS 19.1 million); and inventory control (US$2.4
million).
3.     For most sub-components of Off-farm Improvements (US$ 237.6 million), cost recovery would be 50%.
Recnvev mmbhRnim sernQ rvnlneI1v nin  ow. A!! t  iiiveent I= cccti          teria:: fr on-fairm
improvements (US$ 44.1 million) would be recovered.
4.     In summary, a total of US$ 180 million, 53% of the US$337.2 million from government funds and Bank
loan, would be recovered according to the National Water Act and the Contribution for Public Investment in



ANNEX M
-  120  -                                  Page 2 of S
Waer Inf uctue Act. The other funds US$225.5 million, 40% will be totally repayed by farmers in kind,
cash and credit
II. Recovery Mechanisms
5.    According to the National Water Act, Article 109, the Contribution for Public Investment in Water
Ifrastructure Act regults the mechanisms for recovery of public investment in irrigation. CNA, WUOs, and
private banks would sign an agreement that would include the following terms to set repayment amounts and
schedules:
(a)    Any person or legal entity that directly benefits from public infrastructure -- that is to use,
distribute, or exploit national water using public infrastructure - bas to repay public investment.
O)    Article 3 of the Contrbution for Public Investment in Water Infsuctur Act determines the
method for estimating the amount to be recovered. The following items would be discounted
from the amount obtained.
Ii)    50% of the investment in: civil works in off-farm improvements, machinery and
constrwtion materials, as well as in mitigation actions in aquifers, and pilot actions in
saline lands.
(ii)   100% of the investment in: technical support, communications and training; field
surveys engineering services, design and supervision; and inventory control.
(c)    Once the amount of investment in partUal and non-recoverable sub-components have been
discounted from the total, CNA would determine the annual or semestral repayment to be paid
by WUOs in the following way:
-i)    Dividiny the total amount to be recovered by the maximum number of years or
sememwers given to each WUO for repayment according to its charcristics, but never
more than 15 years or 30 semesters, including a grace period of 3 years or 6 semesters.
(I)    The amount to recover would be adjusted by dividing the closest to date of payment
consumer price index value and multiplying by the value of the consumer price index at
the time the amount to reco --r was published in the Official Publication.
(d)    Iho annal or semestral amount to be paid with respect to each hectae would be estimated by
dividing the total amount to be recovered by the total hectares covered by the project or by each
investment item, and multiplying by the total hectares covered by the improvement for each
user. The result would determine the amount to be paid by each user.
(e)    CNA would publish the total amount to be recovered in the Official Journal no later than 90
days after the last disbursement, according to article 9 of the Contribution for Public Investment
in Water Infrastructure Act.
(f)    Repayment responsibility
(i)    Thle WUOs are responsible for making payments on time, as agreed with CNA.
rayment delays arc ui jusiiuied by the faiiure of WuO members to reimburse their
WUO. Each WUO must make members pay at the most convenient time.
(d)    WUO members would repay their WUOs along with water fees, but would receive a
separate receipt section, specifying the amount of the repayment and the destination
account.



ANNEX M
Page 3 of 5
(g)    Repayment schedule
(i)    WUOs would repay by year or semester, and each payment would be made no later than
15 working days after the deadline for each payment.
(ii)    The terms of appointment to be signed between second tier bans and CNA would set
up the mechanism to transfer the recovered funds, and would detemine who should
present Form SHCP 10 to the Secretary of Economy and Public Credit, declarng the
amount recovered from public investments.
(h)    Punishment for missed payments
(i)    For WUOs:
1.    According to the National Water Act (article 68), the water supply to WUOs
could be stopped in bulk until payment ishlflled. Any cut should be paal to
ensure that on-going crops are not destroyed.
2.    In case of continuous failure to pay, article 107 of the National Water Act
allows the revocation of water concessions.
(ii)    For WUO members:
The same penalties could be used on any member who does not repay the WUO. To
give WUOs effective mechanisms to enforce repayment, it is imporant that:
1.    Members and WUOs sign an agreement that gives the WUOs a legal basis to
enforce repayment, and
2.     The agreement indicates that the member's water quota is a collateal for te
loan.
IL Incidence of cost recovery through water fees
6.     Costs financed by CNA and recovered through water fees would Inrease overall  watet costs by 16-
100%, depending on the improvements in each farm. The following Table M.2 shows the repayment effects and
its effect on the annud water fee. It also relates the increased water costs to the tota farm cost of production.
The increase in water costs would be the lowest for farmers not investing in on-farm improvements (only off-
farm irgation network improvements) since off-farm improvements involve only 50% capital tecoery.
7.     The increase on water costs would be the highest for farmers who also invest in land leveling, lining
farm ditches, or the installation of low-pressure pipe systems, and where CNA was also involved in financing the
use of machinery and construction materials. These farmers could fce increases of up to 200% in water costs.
These increments are however not significant when compared with total costs and with value of producton, as
can also be seen in Table M.2. Most of the farm models show that the increased water productivity reducs the
percentage of water costs in rlation to total production costs or revenues. In al farm models, one rsult of the
proposed investments is a genera increase in water productivity. As water is he most scarc prduction
resource in most IDs, the returns per unit of utilized viater should be one of the primary objectives of
prducio. Table 8 in Annex C-X[ shows the expected water productivity increases with the project in each
farm model. The Project's weighted average increase would be 53%.



MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NEIWORKS MPROVEMENT PROJECT
Effect of Cost Recovery over the Water Fees *
Water Costs (N1$HA)            Water Cosls/            Water CostsI
War Costs (1000 n3)                 Per Farm Model             P     ton  Coss (%)     Producto Values
MOdes           Invest Type'    Area                                                                                                      (%)
) Bade    CNA Cost    Tol        Basic    CNA Cost    Total      Without       With      Wthod        With
Fee     Recovery       Fee       Fee     Recovery      Fee       Project     Project     Project    Project
1. Culacin-Humaya
# I         A                    10    13.18          5.02     18.80       106       38        144           3           3           2         2
#2          ABC                  10    13.78        27.33      41.11        96      192        288          4            8           2          5
#3          AG(35)               70    13.78          3.73     17.51       176       36        212          14           5           8          3
#4          AC(15)F(15)          30    13.78          7.66     21.44       149       83        232           1           2           1          1
H. Rio Colorado  '
# I         A                    10    18             8.32     26.32       227       97        324          tI          15          10         11
#2          ABC                   15    18           14.43     32.43       252      156        408          it          20          10         13
#3          AC(30)F(30)          30    18            14.12     32.12       240      124        364           5           6           4         4
#4          ACI(3)               60    18            11.07     29.07       269      117        386          7            9           6         7
m. Dd_eias
1 1         A                    10    12.98          2.03     15.01       199       31        230          7            7           5          S
#2          ABC                  15    12.98         12.88     25.86       211      209        420          7            7           6         5
J 3         AC(30)F(30)          60    12.98          4.67     17.65       280       91        371          4            3           3         2
#4          ACI(3)               30    12.98          8.52     21.50       256      168        424          6            5           4         4
IV. Rio Mayo
J I         A                     6    37             7.18     44.18       314       61        375          13          15          10         10
#2          ABC(20)E10           30    37            17.84     54.84       239      115        354           3           5           3         4
# 3         ABD(50)1(8)          50    37            15.39     52.39       343      142        485          11          13          10         10
V. Sto. Domingo
# 1         F(IS)                41      6            0.99      6.99        37        6         43           1           1           t          I
#2          E(15)                31      6           0.99       6.99        48        8         56          2            1           1          1
VI. Rio Yaqui
# 1         A                    10    13.67         4.58      18.25        88       29        117          5            4           4         4
#2          ABC(15)              22    13.67         16.60     30.27        95      116        211          3            4           3         3
#3         AC(100)F(20)         12    13.67         12.33     26.00        84       75        159          3            3           2         3



MEXICO
ON-FARM AND MINOR MRIGAThON NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Effect of Cost Recovery over the Water Fees *
Water Costs (NSIHA)             Water Costs!            Water Costs!
Water Costs (N$1000 tn3)             Per Farm Model              Productfon Costs (%)     Production Valus
Models          Invest Type,      Area                                                            _     _ -_                                   (%)
Basic    CNA Cost    Total        Basic    CNA Cost    Total       Wihout        Witl       Without      With
Fee      Recovery      Fee        Fee     Recovery       Fee       Project     Project      Project     Project
VI. Alto Rio Lcmna
#1           A                     4    22             4.32      26.32       229        45        274           5            5           3          3
92           ADH(15)              20    22            18.11      39.11       209      1'79        388           4            5           3          4
#3           ADE(20)              40   122            11.56      33.56       186       104        290           3            4           2          3
#4           AC                   60    22            10.79      32.79       249       123        372           7            8           5          6
Vm. La Laguna
# I          A                    3.8    17.44         4.92      22.36       184        45        229           7            8           5          6
# 2          AB                   5.2    17.44         7.84      25.28       188        69        257           6            6           4          4
# 3          ABC                 48.2    17.44        12.26      29.70       170       112        282           6            4           5          5
LK. El Carnizo
I            A                    10      5.8          4.32      20.12        97        26        123           5           6            5          5          -
2            AC(7)B(30)           30    IS.8           12.22     28.02        98        76        174           6           7            5          6          N
3            DG&30)               90    15.8           8.88      24.68       159        89        248           3           3            2          3
X. El Fuerte
I            A                    10    16.4           5.23      21.63       155       50         205           5           6            4          4
2            AC                    10    16.4          10.91     27.31       158       105        263           5           6            4          5
3            ABC                  30    16.4           15.55     31.95       171       160        331           3           5            2          4
4            AB(30)C(30)          60    16.4           8.93      25.33       177        75        252           2           2            1          I
*    Based on Year S Production Situation
11   A =          Small off-fam irigation network
B =         Levuling
C =         Liming of on4-anm ditches
D =         Low pressure pipe systems
E           Microsprinkler irrigation
F =         Drip irdgation
G =         Sprinkler irrigation
H =         Galed pipes
I           Soil reclamion and drainage                                                                                                                           T
2/   refers to frm area iavolved in each investment. When not present whole fann area is involved.                                                                      24
(continuation)



-  124  -                             ANNEX N
Page I of 3
RELEVANT ASPECTS OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT STRATEGY FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT OF PRIVATE INVESTMENT IN ON-FARM IRRIGATION
(Translation of the Government's Sector-Policy Letter)
The Federal Government strategy for further expansion of the cropped area relies on
efficiency of water use for irrigation in the Mexican districts.
The National Program for Agricultural Modernization has been created, within the
National Development Plan, 1989-1994. The Program's objective is to increase Mexican
agricultural production and productivity levels.
Based on the above modernization program, the National Water Commission created
and implemented the Irrigation and Drainage National Program to promote further
development and strengthening of the irrigated areas, so as to benefit from its significant
potential to improve the efficiency of the irrigated surface area and to incorporate new
irrigated areas.
The Irrigation and Drainage National Program, focus its actions in: (a) the operation
and maintenance of 80 districts; (b) the modernization and decentralization of at least 20
irrigation districts, which cover 1.9 million hectares; (c) the rehabilitation of the irrigation
infrastructure and associated activities to use it fully; (d) the transference of 21 irrigation
districts in the period 1990-1994 to its corresponding users' associations; and (e) the
increasing participation of the producers in the operation, maintenance and administration of
such infrastructure.
Due to these activities the efficiency in the use of irrigated areas has improved
favorably. It is also feasible to obtain further significant increases in the efficiency levels
through the corresponding improvement in the sufficiency and flexibility in water delivery
and distribution systems to reach the on-farm level. Especially if executed in such a way that
the potential increase in the productivity yields become a key factor for production growth
and to improve producers' income.
In the 1980s, it existed a ceiling in the amounts assigned for the operation and
maintenance of the districts, which was unfavorably reflected, not only in the construction of
new infrastructure for irrigation but in the lack of proper operation and maintenance of
existing infrastructure. As a result, both the distribution and drainage networks deteriorated.
In order to change this situation, the Federal Govermment crafted a strategy based on
the following aspects: (a) to transfer the irrigation districts to the users' associations for its
operation, maintenance and administration; (b) to promote the efficient use of land and water
resources; (c) to facilitate private sector participation in the investnent; and (d) to obtain the
necessary fmancial resources to cover the needs of this subsector.



-  125  -                               ANNEX N
Page 2 of 3
From 1988 to 1993 the expenditures for operation and maintenance have doubled, in
real terms in the irrigation districts. Thus, it is being recognized that it is a priority to count
with adequate maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure. It is estimated that in the short-
term, approximately N$480 million to cover expenditures will be made available in 1994.
This will make it possible to obtain a slight increase in the improvement of the main and
secondary networks that require investments to increase the efficiency in the use of water at
the on-farm level.
In order to improve the efficiency of on-farm water use the Government has
established the On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Program. The
program is designed to improve the minor networks to improve overall service concept to the
irrigation infrastructure.
In this way, it will make it possible to start with the first stage. This stage consists in
improving water use efficiency through on-farm and minor irrigation networks projects to
increase production and productivity. This can be done with the use of technological
advances that can guarantee water savings and propitiate a change towards higher value
cropping patterns.
These savings would make it possible to increase, especially in the case of the gravity
systems, the repetition indexes for double-cropping every year. Additionally, the transfer of
water rights authorized by the National Water Laws will stimulate, in districts with pumping
systems, the installation of pressurized irrigation methods with higher irrigation efficiencies.
This will increase its productivity and will generate jobs. In addition it will contribute to the
stabilization of the aquifers.
As a result, the Federal Government will ensure that the National Water Commission,
in charge of program implementation--Irrigation and Drainage National Program, and the
On-Farm Development--includes the necessary resources in its proposed annual budgets to
fulfill its objectives in 1994-1999.
It must also be mentioned, that in addition to public funds, it is foreseen that the on-
farm development program will count with users' economic resources, in accordance to their
payment capacity. Thus, it is foreseen that users' investment cost-sharing will have a
multiplier effect of about 200% by the end of this program.
On the other hand, under the National Water Law, the National Water Commission
has transferred two million hectares to 246 users' associations, located in 37 irrigation
districts and will continue with this process until all irrigated areas are covered.
Legal changes contained in the National Water Law, assign a high priority to
expanding investment from beneficiaries, thus allowing their cost-sharing in the development
of new hydro-agricultural infrastructure. In addition, these amendments establish the
necessary measures to ensure recovery of operation and maintenance costs for works, and the
Federal Govenmment investment.



-  126  -                                ANNEX N
Page 3 of 3
Tariffs for irrigation will ensure self-sufficiency of the transferred districts. Just as it
has been noted in the budgets assigned to the operation, maintenance and administration of
same, thus notably increasing its level of self-sufficiency.
In this way, the Water Users' Organization ensures the capital cost recovery of
investments funded by the Government for the on-farm irrigation program. The capital cost
recovery levels were considered feasible through farm model analysis.
The Federal Government has defined a mechanism to support producers directly
through the PROCAMPO program. Given that it is congruent in its objectives and actions,
PROCAMPO will facilitate the execution of the on-farm and irrigation development program,
thus contributing to its rapid implementation.
In order to carry out a follow-up and progress evaluation of the program, the National
Water Commission will create a special unit that will make data available for verification and
efficient application of resources purposes.
12/16/93



- 127 -
ANNEX 0
MECaCO
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRiGATION NETWORKS MPROVEMENT PROJECT
Reated Documes and Data Aalabe in to Pr1 et ni o
Titlo                                      --        at- -utic    -   Dam
1. Project preparation Documaets
Proyceto de Desarollo Parcelario y de Redes Pequedfas de Riego y Anexos Tdcnleoa (No. l: Marco Lei y   PROINWRAtCNA    6.93
do Regulacida de Agu; No.2: Encuestas Productores; No.3  Reglamento Oporatvo; No.4: Siste"ms do   IBRD
Administraci6n del Proyecto; No. 5: Sistema de Apoyo a la Inversidn y ia Tecnologfa del Agua No. 6:
Evaluacidn Financeiray Econdmiu; No.7: Cridito Agrcola; No.8: Evaluacld Prellminar do Mercados;
No. 9: Anailsis do Sistma de Riego Presurizado; No. 10: OpcIones Tecnoldgles de Riego y Costos
Estimados de Operacida y Mantenimiento; No. 11: Aspectos Agrondmicos; No. 12: Costos de Inversidn,
Opeaida y Mantenimlento; No. 13: Costos de Produccida por Cultivo; No. 14: Apoyo Tdcnico,
Capacitacidny Comunicacl6n; No. IS: Componente Redes Pequeia de Rlogo; No. 16: Component Obfas
Parcoiarias; No. 17: Component. Ambiental.; No. 18: Inverslda Anual y Ftanciamiento; No. 19:
Tdrminos de Referencia para la Elaboracion del Manual de Obras Pequeflau de Riego.
Mexico: Roview of Conditions for Encourging Private Investment In rigation                      TURD (Rpt.          1.93
11774-ME)
2. Subproject Feaibiilty Studies
Subprojects Feasibility Studies: Subproyemtos El Carrizo, Sinaios; Culetoin, Sinaloa; Rbo Puert, Sinaioa;  PROINFRAICNA    6.93
Guasave, Sinaloa; La Laguna, Coshulla, Alto Rio Lerma, Guaajuato; Rbo Mayo, Sonota; Rbo Yaqui,
Sonora; Rio Colorado, Baja California; Delicias, Chihuahua; Ldzero Cdrdenas, Michoacbn, Bajo Rio San
Juan, Tamaulipas; y Bajo Rfo Bravo, Tamaulipas.
3. Environmental Relatod Mars
Regional or Aquifer Geohydrological Reports: Regidn Laugnera, Coah, Dgo.; Alto RioLrmsa; Edo. Gto;  CNA             12.92
Valle de Guaymaa, Sonora; Rfo Mayo, Sonora; Valle del Yaqui, Sonota; Valle de Caborca, Sonora; y TieuI,
MErlda.
4. Project Woring Papers (PWP)
Background Infotmation:
PWP A-I               Irrigation Setot Institutional Framework                               mD                 7.92
Project Costs/Disbursements:
FWP B-I               Projet Costs                                                           9RD                7.92
PWP B-ll       -      Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements                              IBRD                7.92
Project Components/Justifcation:
PWP C-I        -      Regulatory and Administrative Changes                                  FAO-CPATURD        7.92
PWP C-ll       -      Technological Support, Training and Communications                     BRD                7.92
PWP c-.m              Small-Scale Off-Farm Improvements                                      FAO-CP/IBRD        7.92
PWP C-IV              Maintenance and Construction Machinery                                IBRD                7.92
PWP C-V        -      Construction Material Allocations                                      FAO-CP/1BRD        7.92
PWP C-VI       -      On-Farm Improvements                                                   IBRD               7.92
PWP C-VII      -      Rural Credit                                                           FAO-CP             7.92
PWP C-Vm       -      Small Hydraulic Structures Manual (TOR)                                IBRD               7.92
PWP C-K        -      Groundwater Protection and LAnd Reclamation Actions                    IBRD               7.92
PWP C X        -      Farmers Repayment Capacity                                             PAO-CPQIBRD        7.92
PWP C-XI       -      Economic Justification                                                 FAO-CP/TRD         7.92
PWP C-XI       -      Agricultural Production and Markeus                                    FAO-CP             7.92
Project Implementation:
PWP D-l        -      Project Implementtion and Impact dicators
PWP D-II       -      Project Operating Regulations                                          FAO-CPABRD         7.92
PWP  -m        -      Project Unit and Project Monutoing System                              FAO-CP/IBRD        7.92
PWP D-IV       -      Selection of Subprojecls                                               IBRD               7.92
PWP D-V        -      Schedules for Feasibility Studies and Construction Designs Preparation  IBRD              7.92
PWP D-VI       -      Subproject Environmental Checlist                                      mmRD               7.92
PWP D-V        -      Poposed Implementation Schedule                                         IRD               7.92
PWP D-VIU      -      Suprvision Plan                                                        IBRD               7.92
PWP D-IX       -      Capital Cost Recovery Plan                                             FAO-CPIURD         7.92
PW}P D-X       -      Constuction Designs- TOR                                               IBRD               7.92
PWP D-XI       -      Project Chart                                                          IRD                7.92
CS Case Study                  PB  Prqect Brief    -SA  Statf Appt Rpota
IB Initiaion Bdef              PCR Project Completion Report     SR Sector Review
Id Identification              Prtp Preparaton                   TCP Technical Cooperion Project



*  RIO COLORADO  Er                                                                                                                                                                                                      3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 25140
+                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~UNITED  STATES   OF      AMERICA                                        LIST OF PARTICIPATING, IRRIGATION  DISTRICTS
IR0 COIDLADO              IL ALTO RiDO IRR-
0~~~~~~~~.                                                                           S RiO ADAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~",_O  12 BALD RIO SAN JUAN
- - - -   - -                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~4AAUS DEL C-RIDD  I CARATILTAD TITALCATEPIC
~~~0.     L 1)1<44 ~~~~~~~~~~~~M   EX   I CO0
4  ARE                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ON-FARM AND, MINOR IRRIGATION   '
CilIELHM ~~~~~~~~ H U A ~~~~NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
WI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                                                                                                              Poripoti-gIrgBo Disf       rid,
4                                                                                                       ej    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NoBiOBBO copiEd1
OREJBAO                                                                                                                                                                                             ED ELO DAD.,f
BAJA  SooBolorolLo                                                                                                                                                                 IBI9IRTRO)3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 P6,ip1ciit   ,t..
DLCRr L'       B                                                                                                                OORO F                                                    loBonBoBinl bouAdoritR
Rii~~~A  ~                                                     A  ~~~                                                i A                                                       j. V0 A7
M..    B#RAAGO9
NATIONAL LIST OF IRRIGATION DISTRICTS                                                                                                                                              . .d& 
001 PABELLON                  A37 RIOS ALTAR Y B'ITLUITO  003 PAT'EOOCAIC
003 TALA                     03B Rio MAYO               084 GUAYMAS                                                                                          A E          4..
004 EON MARTIN               04T RI YAQUII              ART LA REGOOA                                                                                                    A                                                                                                 .               tId.
000 DELICLAD         ~042 RARNAVENTUBA           086 SOTLAMRNDO                                         Itfr&
A0O PALESTIN                 083 ESTADO AL NA3AEti    007 RO5)0 A     AOTTT DE                                                             GOAAJ
TAR METLTITLAO               044 JTLOTEPEC              ORB1 CR6100 TROCOCO                                                                                                           Toc
T09 CIUDA0 LUAREZ            043 TABRAN                 TO9 EL CARMENM
010 RI0D CLWICAN4 A HBMAYA  046 CACABBOATAN             AB A 861  RIO 00001100          MAORLt4OldIo 
BiT ALTOCRiJo LE86           D4B BLCUL                  002 RIO RANACO
013 ESBADO AR JALISCO        040 RIO 48000              093 TOMATLAN                                                  ~P
014 RIO COLORADO             050 ACJARA TFALCOO         094 JALISCO 'SU004-
016 EATADO DE MORELOS        05T COSTA DE HTERMOSILLO  COT ATOYAC
017 LA LAGUNA                032 IEST0D0 AT DERANLROO 00  ARROYO Z06O800
018 COLONI  AS U00S          053 ESTADO AT COLIMA       097 CUPATITZIOTIEPALCATEPEC                                                                          xio
020 MORELIA                  057 AMUCO Y COTZAMALA  000 DUITUPAN LA MAGDALENA.4
003 SAN JUAN DEL RAD         0509010ORIANCO             TAD ALAJAAYACAN                                                                                                                                                                    Cd30AA' )MSCO$E   41I   10
024 0160   T 1666             A   L110                   O  CAXTEPRE)UET                                                                       v         R-C
025   Jo) A8 BRA0          A6l ZAMORA                 TAD RIO HONDO                                                                                                                                                                                          Ap
026 86jo10RI SAN JUAN        060 RIO SINALOA            103 RIO FLORNTO                               CDAIIDTP         1                                                                                                                                                   
028 TULANCINGO               066 SANTO AOMINGO          104 CUALINECAILAPA
020 XICOBENCATL              068 TRPECOACISILCO         TONERPA                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
83 EASQOELLO             013 LA CONCEPCION           06O COCOLUTA                                                                                    '     ~      ~      AL                                    M.B6
031 LA  161J                 A74 MOCORIBO
DO 510  AL MEAICO        075 RIO F06R1E
034 801600 AE ZACATECAS        r 0411VALLEDL CARRIZO
035 LA ANTIGLEA              001 E5TADO AL CAMPECHE                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BLZ
OILORRRTRRO  A       BA       200       300       400        000
MILES 0               500            200              000 
TBsEs rrp h.Mopn-     rdb Th. Worl BOUATEMALAAILOfrfo
Mp 4A ou Aopfr orrh        of th. Word Ro,* Gru.cuio,or
00 ro Eoc1uloro o oo Roooryor up odorooMT O BA6;BA ofHONDURAS
OCTOBER 1993



