                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No.: 32732




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                                     MEXICO

              IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SECTOR PROJECT
                                 (LOAN NO. 3419)



     ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT
                           PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3704)



        AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                 (LOAN NO. 4428)



                                    July 22,2005




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Czln-ency Urzit Me.xican Peso (Me.x$)
                  =




Abbreviations and Acronyms

ALCAMPO          Alianza para el Campo
                 (Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project)
CNA              Comision Nacional del Agua
FA0              Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FIRCO            Trust Fund for Sharing Farming Risks
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
OED              Operations Evaluation Department
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
PRODEP           Programa de Desarrollo Parcelario
                 (On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project)
PSRD             Programa Sectorial de Riego y Drenaje
                 (Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project)
SAGARPA          Ministry of Agriculture
WUA              Water User Association


Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1 -December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 : Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Operations Evaluation Department             :  Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group   : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           :  Mr. John R. Heath

  OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report

      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank's work is
producingthe expected results, and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies, and procedures through
the disseminationof lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
innovative,large, or complex;those that are relevant to upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for which
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requested assessments;and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.

      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.

      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System

      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http:iiworldbank.org/oedieta-mainpage. html).

      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.

      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.

      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.

      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.

      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


Contents

Principal Ratings      ................................................................................................................v

Key Staff Responsible          ......................................................................................................vi

Preface..............................................................................................................................vii

Summary   ...........................................................................................................................ix

1 Background
 .                   ..................................................................................................................1

2 Data Sources
 .                    .................................................................................................................2

3 The Irrigation Projects
 .                                     ................................................................................................3

      Objectives.................................................................................................................3

      Design and Implementation .....................................................................................4

                 Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project (PSRD)...........................................                               5

      Outcor7ze...................................................................................................................6

                 Relevance .....................................................................................................        6
                 Efficacy ........................................................................................................     6

      Institutiovzal Development Irfzpnct..........................................................................14

      Szotainability..........................................................................................................17

      Bank and Borro~ierPerformance ..........................................................................17

4 The Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
 .                                                                                       ............................................18

      Objectives...............................................................................................................18

      Desigrz and Inzplenzentation ...................................................................................18

      Outcome .................................................................................................................20

      Szistainability..........................................................................................................26

      Bank and Borrower Perfornzance..........................................................................26

5 Findings and Lessons
 .                                  .................................................................................................26

Annex 1 Results Matrix-Irrigation
       .                                                 and Drainage Sector Project (L3419)                               ............29

Annex 2.Results       Matrix-On-Farm                    and Minor Irrigation Networks Project
   (L3704)   ........................................................................................................................31
Annex 3.Results Matrix-Agricultural                          Productivity Improvement Project (L4428)33

Annex 4 Productivity of Land and Water in Irrigation Units and Districts. 1980-
       .
   2002..............................................................................................................................35

Annex 5 Additional Tables
       .                 .............................................................................................37

Annex 6 Revised Economic Rate of Return (PSRD)
       .                                                           ...................................................39

Annex 7 Basic Data Sheet
       .                ...............................................................................................41

Annex 8.Borrower Comments      .......................................................................................47

Principal Ratings

IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3419)

                                        ICR*                      ICR Review*                                             PPAR

Outcome                          Highly Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

Sustainability                     Highly Likely                       Likely                                             Likely

Institutional Development           Substantial                    Substantial                        Substantial
lmpact

Bank Performance                 Highly Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                                   Satisfactory
                                                                        .""
                                                                            " *,."%**"-  "<a  *-




ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT




Sustainability                          Likely                         Likely                                             Likely

Institutional Development           Substantial                    Substantial                        Substantial
lmpact

Bank Performance                    Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     Satisfactory




                                        ICR*                      ICR Review*                                             PPAR

Outcome

Sustainability                     Highly Likely                       Likely                                        Unlikely

Institutional Development             Modest                          Modest                               Negligible
lmpact

Bank Performance                    Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory

Borrower Performance                                                                                Satisfactory
                                                                                                   aw"*e-,vs---,,-"""A"-..          **.*



* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
The ICR Review is an intermediate Operations Evaluation Department (OED) product that seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.

Key Staff Responsible




Completion           Jose Simas        John Redwood                 Olivier Lafourcade




ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT

                                            w",*,'"..   *-,-~--,.'.*.,.." <<* ,,'"'*r.        '","-"a"-."             ,.~"
                                                                                                          .-eaa*,

                                            on Chief/                  Country Director
                                       Sector Director
                                                             - ." ............-...                               -
                                                                         Ediberto Segura

                    Michael Carroll    John Redwood                  Olivier Lafourcade




                                                               CT.,(LOAN 4428)
                                                               -                                             .~,.",--
                                                                   >             *",'..-,-m~"v"w"--*."

                                                                       Country Director




                                                   ckler
                                                   -- --                 Isabel Guerrero               -
                                                                                                      "       =  <'"a-

Preface

This is a Project Performance Assessment Report for three Mexico projects.

The Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project was supported by Loan No. 3419 in the
amount of US$400 million equivalent which was approved on December 3, 1991. The
loan closed on June 30,2000, almost five years later than expected. A balance of US$5O
million equivalent was canceled.

The On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project was supported by
Loan No. 3704 in the amount of US$200 million equivalent which was approved on
February 17, 1994.During a 1997 restructuring the loan amount was reduced by US$30
million. The loan closed on March 31,2002,almost two years later than expected. The
restructured loan amount was fully disbursed.

The Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project was supported by Loan No. 4428 in
the amount of US$444.5 million equivalent which was approved on December 22, 1998.
The loan closed according to schedule on June 30, 2003 and was f ~ ~ ldisbursed.
                                                                           l y

This report presents the findings of Operations Evaluation Department missions to
Mexico in December 2004 and January 2005. The missions were conducted by Mr. John
R. Heath, assisted by Dr. Fernando Barceinas (consultant). In February 2005, in support
of this assessment, Dr. Barceinas conducted a survey of 239 water users in irrigated areas
of the states of Guanajuato and Sonora.

In addition to the results of the February 2005 survey, this report draws on a series of
datasets listed in the main report, as well as interviews with officials of the Government
of Mexico, with water user associations, and with Bank staff. A special note of thanks is
reserved for: the Comision Nacional del Agua for facilitating the survey of water users;
Dr. Ivan Cossio and the FAOISAGARPA evaluation team, and Dr. Enrique Palacios of
the Colegio de Posgraduados for providing invaluable orientation. The Operation
Evaluations Department also gratefully acknowledges the assistance received from the
World BankNetherlands Water Partnership, without which the survey could not have
been funded.

Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comments. Comments were received from the
Comision Nacional de Agua. Where deemed appropriate by OED the text of the PPAR
was revised to reflect these comments, which are reproduced as Annex 8.


Summary

        This report assesses three projects whose ultimate goal is related to the challenge
of boosting Mexico's lagging agricultural productivity-whether         by exploiting land more
intensively, increasing physical yields, or adopting a more profitable mix of crop and
livestock activities.

        Two of the projects aimed to improve tlie administration of irrigated areas. The
Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project (PSRD) was a time-slice operation, with the
Bank financing US$400 million of the government's US$1.2 billion program. It was
conceived as the first phase of a broader program for the sustainable development of
water and soil productivity in the public Irrigation Districts. PSRD supported the transfer
of management responsibility from a state agency, the Comision Nacional del Agua, to
water user associations in the Districts. The investment package targeted major off-farm
networks. The On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project
(PRODEP) provided follow-up support to government's program, focusing on upgrading
minor networks and making on-farm improvements.

The third project sought to boost private investment in agriculture. The Agricultural
Productivity Improvement Project (ALCAMPO) supported the Alianza para el Campo
program, which aimed to leverage private investment in agriculture by providing partial
reimbursement to producers for investment costs they had incurred. It entailed co-
financing by federal government, state governments and producers of subprojects in
small-scale irrigation, pasture establishment, improved dairying and infrastructure for
poor farmers.

        The outcome of the irrigation projects (PSRD and PRODEP) is rated satisfactory.
The project objectives were highly relevant to current Bank and Borrower strategy, the
projects met or exceeded most of their targets and OED re-estimates the economic rate of
return of each project at 15percent. Although ALCAMPO achieved a rate of return of 16
percent, its outcome is rated unsatisfactory because its objectives were only modestly
relevant and it did not fully achieve them-technical      assistance to smaller fanners was
not substantially strengthened and there was no increase in the state governments'
capacity to administer the Alianza program.

       With respect to institutional development impact, the two irrigation projects are
rated substantial, based on their success in empowering the water user associations.
ALCAMPO's rating for institutional development impact is negligible because the
project made no lasting contribution to ensuring more efficient resource use in the
Alianza program: this program is not well targeted to poorer producers with potential for
productivity growth, and its approach to selecting and appraising subprojects is
insufficiently rigorous.

        Sustainability is rated likely for all three projects, partly because the economic
analysis indicates a positive net benefit flow that is likely to extend into the next decade.
Bank and Borrower Performance are both rated satisfactory for the irrigation projects.
For ALCAMPO, Borrower Performance is rated satisfactory, but Bank Performance is

rated unsatisfactory, based on poor quality at entry and an overestimation of the leverage
that this project could exert over the poorly-targeted program to u~hichit was
contributing.

         This assessment confirms the following OED lessons of broader relevance:

         Projects rzeed to dovetail withprograms; but well-designedprojects carz rarely
turn arozind apoovly-designedprogranz. This is a particularly important lesson for the
Bank's work in Mexico where leverage is limited. Mexico has ample access to alternative
sources of funding, private as well as public. In line with the Bank's poverty reduction
mandate, its resources should be tightly targeted, rather than added to programs where
there is a high potential for subsidies to be captured by better-off groups.

         The Bank's leverage may be substantially diluted when projectfiinds flow into a
mzilti-stateprograrn irz whiclz state governments have corzsiderable influence over the use
to wlziclz resources areput. The number of interlocutors can be so large that it may make
it difficult for the Bank to influence the overall direction-of    project as much as program.
For example, it is often difficult to secure support of state governments for a monitoring
and evaluation framework, particularly one that is of uniform design applying the same
approach in all states. Also, ALCAMPO demonstrates how difficult it can be to persuade
state governments to follow Bank procedures for procurement and justification of
expenses.

        Pr-ogramsas large as Alia~zzaare candidatesforformal impact evalzration. The
main limitation of the FAOISAGARPA evaluation of Alianza is the absence of a control
group of non-beneficiaries, a striking oversight given the level of funding committed. The
evaluation should have sampled those who did not apply to the program; and those who
applied but were rejected. (It is not clear that a list of the rejected is maintained.) Without
this control it is impossible to assess claims about the program's leverage: much of the
investment (and the income growth attributed to it) might have occurred without a
subsidy. Subsidies may have leaked to better-off groups who don't need them.




                                                                          Vinod Thomas
                                                                         Director-General
                                                                      Operations Evaluation

1. Background

1.1          This report assesses three projects whose ultimate goal is related to the
challenge of boosting Mexico's lagging agricultural productivity-whether                    by exploiting
land more intensively, increasing physical yields or adopting a more profitable mix of
crop and livestock activities. Two of the projects aimed to enhance the performance of
irrigated agriculture. The third sought to subsidize private investment in agriculture by
providing partial reimbursement to farmers for the cost of inputs and equipment they had
purchased. All three projects embodied elements of decentralization. The two irrigation
projects were intended, respectively, to expedite and to consolidate the process of
transferring responsibility for operating and maintaining the public irrigation districts
from a central government agency to associations of water users. The investment subsidy
project required state governments to co-finance with federal government the grant
element provided to help fund subprojects in small-scale irrigation, pasture establishment,
improved dairying and infrastructure for poor farmers.

1.2         Around 1990,when the first of the three projects was designed, Mexico's
program for agriculture and rural development was geared to an opening of the trade
regime, signaled by accession to the World Trade Organization (or GATT as it then was)
in 1987 and to the North American Free Trade Area in 1993. This was accompanied by
the phasing out of producer price support for key crops and its replacement by a program
of direct income support decoupled from production (Procampo)-intended                      to run until
2008, by which time, supposedly, farmers would have adjusted the scale and mix of their
activities in line with comparative advantage. There were parallel initiatives to promote
rural land markets (legalizing the rent or sale of land reform holdings) and to reduce
government's role as a provider of agricultural services (e.g. extension, credit). In
addition, there was considerable support for irrigation and from-1                   996 onwards-a
special program for subsidizing investments in agriculture (Alianza para el Campo).' In
2002, the cost of Procampo, Alianza and support to irrigation added up to three-quarters
of public spending for agriculture.

1.3         The various initiatives for agriculture and rural development add up to a
plausible and broadly coherent whole; but so far results have been limited. Agricultural
exports rose by 69 percent between 1990 and 2002 but, overall, sector productivity
growth has been sluggish. In 1990-2002, the average annual growth rate of agriculture
was 1.6percent (up from 0.8 percent in 1980-1990). The economy as a whole grew by
3.0 percent between 1990 and 2002. Based on triennial averages, between 1979-81 and
2000-02, value added per agricultural worker grew by 22 percent in Mexico, compared to
59 percent for Latin America as a whole.' Many of the rural work force are not market-
oriented farmers but semi-subsistence producers, combining the income from production
for own consumption with casual wage earnings, remittances from migrant relatives and
government transfers (of which Procampo is the most important).




1. With the change of administration in 2001 this was renamed Alianza Contigo.

2. Data in this paragraph are taken from World Bank, World Development Indicators, 2004

2.      Data Sources

2.1       Several datasets were used for the assessment. These datasets refer to the
irrigation and Alianza programs as a whole and it is not possible to isolate data referring
to the Bank-supported projects. This problem is addressed in two ways. First, program
outcomes are matched against the development objectives of the three projects to see
whether results are consistent with what the projects were intended to achieve. Second,
the difference the projects made to program outcomes is assessed, based on interviews
with Bank staff and a review of Bank documents.

2.2       The program-wide datasets are:

        A 2005 OED survey of water users: in three Irrigation Districts (Alto Rio Lerrna
        [N=70] in the state of Guanajuato, and Rio Mayo [N=71] and Costa de
        Hennosillo [N=48], both in the state of Sonora) and two Irrigation Units (Las
        Golondrinas [N=16] and El Cubo [N=34], both located close to the Alto Rio
        Lerma District). Respondents were sampled randomly from the register of water
        users provided by user associations at each location. This survey does not pretend
        to be representative of the diverse Districts in Mexico (N=85), or of the
        population of water users in those Districts (around 400,000). Alto Rio Lerma and
        Rio Mayo were chosen for study because they were the subject of previous
        surveys, making it possible to examine change over a period of ten years or so.
        Costa de Hermosillo was selected precisely because it is a high-productivity
        outlier.
        A 1986 to 2003 series on crop production and water use for each of the 85
        Irrigation Districts of Mexico (supplied by the Comision Nacional del Agua to
        OED);
        A 1980 to 2002 series of data on the land and water productivity of all Irrigation
        Units and Districts (supplied by Dr. Enrique Palacios, Colegio de Posgraduados,
        Texcoco, Mexico);
        A 1999 survey of the performance of water user associations in Irsigation
        Districts, covering 229 Modules (administrative sub-units of Districts) and the
        District Costa de Hermosillo (Comision Nacional del Agual Colegio de
        Posgraduados);
        A set of four consecutive FA0 evaluations of the entirety of the Alianza program
        (2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003), involving a nationwide sample of around 20,000
        beneficiaries;
        Staffing and program budget data from the Cornision Nacional del Agua and the
        Statistical Annex of the government's 2004 "State of the Nation" report.

3.        The Irrigation Projects



3.1           The two projects were designed in sequence and their development objectives
were mutually reinforcing. The development objective statements of each project are very
detailed and are quoted in full in Table 1.


Table 1. Objectives of the Irrigation Projects

Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project                                    On-Farm and Minor Irrigation
                                                                          Networks Improvement Project
 (PSRD)
                                                                          (PRODEP)

"The project would help government to (a) sustain the irrigation          "The project's main objective is to
and drainage sector through adequate levels of investments                assist irrigation farmers in
selected on the basis of rigorous economic and technical criteria,        transferred lrrigation Districts
procured competitively and implemented efficiently; (b)                   complete the transfer process,
decentralize irrigation funding and management through                    consolidate existing irrigation
institutional reforms that would gradually move funding of irrigation     investments through direct user
and drainage investments from a centrally-managed system of               participation in decision-making
government grants towards a system based on regional and local            and investment, move to diversified
public utilities which would help to recover costs through user           agricultural production, and
charges and collection instruments, and thus help sustain the             increase their efficiency in the use
investments by the beneficiaries; (c) fully utilize existing              of land and water resources.
irrigation schemes by finishing uncompleted works, upgrading              Specific objectives consistent with
deteriorated infrastructure, and rehabilitating irrigated land            the sector policy improvements are
affected by water logging, salinity problems and lack of                  to: (a) reduce the loss and waste
maintenance; (d) improve water use efficiency by introducing:             of irrigation water; (b) promote
better water management techniques, the conjunctive use of                decentralization and private
surface and ground water, volumetric measurement of water,                investment in irrigation; (c)
providing more adaptive research results, and training of                 increase cropping intensities and
technicians and farmers in better operation and maintenance of            yields; and (d) increase crop
the irrigation infrastructures; (e) strengthen the institutional          diversification into higher value
capacity of the Comision Nacional del Agua and user                       crops"
organizations to implement policy programs, investments and               (Staff Appraisal Report, p,
maintenance; (f) monitor and help prevent environmental and               emphasis added).
natural resource degradation; and (g) optimizing the use of
land and water resources in the lrrigation Districts and Units"

(Staff Appraisal Report, p.22, emphasis added).




3.2           These objective statements call for some explication. First, although it is not
obvious from the wording of the statements, both projects are directed at Irrigation
Districts and Irrigation Units.' In the Districtspavt of the infrastructure (typically the
head works) remains the responsibility of the Comision Nacional del Agua, which
receives a part of the irrigation service tariff levied on water users. In the Units all the
infrastructure is the responsibility of the respective water user associations; and none of
the tariff goes to the Comision. Of the 6 million ha of crops under irrigation, 3.2 million
ha are located in the Districts and 2.8 million ha in the Units.


3. The second project (PRODEP) did not originally cover the Units but there was a mid-term amendment in order to
include them.

3.3       Second, the objective statements refer to a process of decentralization, entailing
District transfer. Transfer occurred in two stages. First, the secondary and tertiary canals
and associated drains and roads were handed over by the Comision Nacional del Agua to
user associations set up as part of the transfer process, associations whose function is to
provide irrigation services to their members. Typically, Districts were divided into
several administrative modules, each one represented by a users association. In a second
stage responsibility for the primary infrastructure of each District (including main canal)
was transferred from the Comisi6n to an apex organization (Sociedad de Responsibilidad
Limitada). Overall administration of the District is the responsibility of a Water
Committee (Comite Hidraulico) which is headed by the Chief Engineer (a Comision staff
member) and contains representatives of each of water user associations plus the apex
organization. Irrigation service tariffs are fixed by each association and are intended to
fully cover the cost of operation and maintenance; hence the reference to cost recovery in
Table 1.

3.4       Third, one of the aims of both projects was to make the investments necessary
to exploit the existing irrigation works more effectively-the   focus was on maintaining
and rehabilitating what had already been built rather than constructing new works.
Fourth, there was a parallel process of institutional strengthening aimed at both the
Commission Nacional del Agua and the water user associations.

3.5       Finally, the objective statements made several references to productivity
enhancement: "improve water-use efficiency"; "optimize the use of land and water";
"reduce the waste of irrigation water"; "prevent natural resource degradation"; "increase
cropping intensities and yields"; and "increase crop diversification into higher value
crops". There was an expectation that the combined effect of the investments in
infrastructure and institutional strengthening would be to boost returns per unit of land
and water.

3.6       Based on this explication and, in order to simplify the discussion, this report
will henceforth refer to the following objectives, which are taken to apply equally to both
projects:

        (i)    Upgrade irrigation works;
        (ii)    Strengthen decentralization by consolidating District transfer; and
        (iii)  Increase land and water productivity.


DESIGNAND IMPLEMENTATION

3.7       Both projects were designed to support large government programs: first and
foremost the irrigation program, executed by the Comision Nacional del Agua; and, to a
lesser degree the Alianza program of capital investment subsidies-Alianza      provided a
vehicle for financing individual irrigation investments in the Districts and Units,
particularly under the second project. The two projects will be distinguished from each
other by their Spanish acronyms, PSRD and PRODEP.

Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project (PSRD)

3.8        PSRD was a time-slice operation, with the Bank financing US$400 million of
the government's US$1.2 billion irrigation and drainage program. Unlike a standard
investment project the time-slice was designed to support, in addition to a set of
investments, a sector-wide dialogue between Bank and Borrower on policy issues,
including investment selection criteria, environmental safeguards, procurement and
auditing and monitoring and evaluation.

3.9        The project involved the following primary activities: a set of investments
intended to improve irrigation works in Districts and Units; transfer of Irrigation
Districts, including formation of water user associations and preparation of the necessary
regulations; supply of the operation and maintenance equipment needed by water user
associations; training of the staff of user associations and the Comision Nacional del
Agua; and the development of new operating procedures. The expected outputs of the
project and their respective costs are listed in Annex 1.

3.10       When Districts were transferred they were first divided into a series of sub-
areas, or Modules, the number and size of each depending on the configuration of the
irrigation works and the number of users. The Module is the core administrative unit and
there is one water user association per Module. A Hydraulic Committee represents all the
Modules (Associations) in a District and is the key interlocutor between the District and
the Comision Nacional del Agua.

3.11       The operation spanned twelve years. Gestation was slow. The operation was
identified in December 1988 and approved in December 1991. Implementation was
protracted and the loan closed almost five years later than expected (in June 2000). The
main reason for this was government delay in releasing budgets. Slow disbursements led
to three extensions of loan closing.

On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project (PRODEP)

3.12       PRODEP was intended to build on the achievements of PSRD. While PSRD
focused on upgrading the major off-farm networks, PRODEP financed complementary
on-farm and minor network improvements. Once again, the emphasis was on improving
existing schemes rather than further expansion of the irrigated area. The project was
intended to support the lining of irrigation ditches, land leveling, the installation of drip
and micro-sprinkler irrigation, electrification of pumps, and the building of underground
drains. The project's outputs and costs are detailed in Annex 2.

3.13       This operation was also lengthy: it was identified in 1992 and the loan closed in
2002, almost two years later than expected owing to disbursement lags. The project was
initially limited to certain Irrigation Districts but the loan agreement was amended during
implementation to include the Irrigation unit^.^ At the same time, the loan amount was
reduced from US$200 million to US$170 million. The reduction was applied evenly to all
components leaving their relative size unchanged.


4. This amendment was dated June 6, 1997 (Implementation Completion Report, No. 24603, 2002, p. 40).

3.14       Because each of the assessed projects fed into a broader program it is a
challenge to sort out the project specific effects. Both projects served Units as well as
Districts but data from the Units is patchy (none are cited in the completion reports),
partly it seems because there is inadequate government oversight of the Units-which                                lie
outside the remit of the Comision Nacional del Agua. There is ample information on the
Districts but, even if this assessment were to limit itself to Districts financed by the
project (PSRD and PRODEP covered, respectively, 72 and 14Districts), within each
District it is impossible to separate what was financed by the project from what was
financed by the broader program. The report addresses this problem by: matching
program-wide data against project t objectives; identifying discrete technical inputs made
by the projects; presenting survey findings on Districts that were covered by both projects
(Alto Rio Lerma and Rio Mayo); and basing the economic analysis on the same subset of
project Districts that was covered in the completion reports.

Relevance

3.15       Both projects are rated "high" on relevance because their objectives remain
consistent with Bank and Borrower strategy today. The 2004 partnership strategy
between the government of Mexico and the Bank refers to the need to manage water
resources in a sustainable manner.' The strategy contains no mention of the water user
associations but implicitly it is the water users who must assume responsibility for
addressing the problem of water scarcity. The two irrigation projects assessed here took a
step in that direction by empowering water users through the transfer of the Districts,
even if they did not centrally address the issue of over exploitation of water.

Efficacy

Objective (i). Upgrade Irrigation Works

3.16       This objective was achieved. According to the completion reports, PSRD and
PRODEP exceeded the area targets set at appraisal: investments in irrigation works
benefited 2.0 million ha under PSRD and 226,000 ha under PRODEP, an area
respectively 5 percent and 27 percent larger than envisaged (Annexes 1 and 2). The
machinery for operation and maintenance was satisfactorily transferred from the
Comision Nacional del Agua to water user associations. Under PRODEP, targets for the
installation of pressurized (drip and sprinkler) irrigation and for underground drainage
were substantially exceeded (Annex 2).

3.17       The bulk of the investment in works (93 percent in the case of PSRD) was
devoted to deferred maintenance and rehabilitation-getting                        the best out of the existing
system rather than expanding it. The projects' emphasis on rehabilitation was consistent
with the overall direction of Mexico's irrigation program: while rehabilitation averaged
only 22 percent of the investment in irrigation works between 1977 and 1984,the average


5. Country Partnership Strategy, March 2004, pp. 20-21 and Annex Al. With respect to agriculture and rural
developn~ent,the list of Bank instruments proposed for the strategy period (FY05-08) is limited to water and natural
resource management, support for rural savings and credit institutions, and land titling measures.

for 1997-2002 was 60 per~ent.~When District transfer was initially proposed, user
associations agreed to take over infrastructure in its existing state, on the understanding
that the Comision would retrospectively rehabilitate it, assuming the full cost. But
government funding of rehabilitation did not match the scale of District transfer, actually
falling in 1995. From 1997, after new negotiations with the water user associations, the
rules were changed. In exchange for an increase in the Comision's budget for
rehabilitating and modernizing transferred Districts, the associations agreed that water
users assume 50 percent of the cost of future investments in rehabilitation and
modernization.

3.18        In terms of technical upgrade, a clear difference was made by both irrigation
projects. The projects spurred the introduction of subsurface drainage (which, before
1990,many Mexican engineers had dismissed as inappropriate for Mexico) and promoted
the use of light-weight equipment for canal dredging. Both innovations helped to reduce
investment and maintenance costs. Cost containment was also favored by allowing the
water user associations to take the lead in the tendering of works contracts: this had
initially been resisted by the Comision (which preferred to do the tendering itself) but the
Bank strongly advocated the decentralized approach and eventually the Comision came
round. In the view of one expert observer, "the machinery operators hired by the water
user associations are much more productive than the government staff that operated the
machinery before farmers undertook the management of these system^".^ A major
achievement was the expansion of the irrigated area under drip and micro-spray
irrigation-it     grew by 93,228 ha, more than four times what was expected at apprai~al.~
Finally, the project introduced new technology for land leveling that lowered costs from
US$7OOlha to US$200/ha.

3.19        In all these respects the projects boosted the effectiveness of the overall
irrigation program. Under PSRD, as a result of the technical upgrade, operation and
maintenance costs fell by 30-40 percent in the period immediately after transfer. Under
PRODEP, the efficiency of water conveyance and water application reached 87 percent
and 69 percent respectively, in line with appraisal targets.

3.20        However, OED found in 2005 that, in the areas that it surveyed in Guanajuato
and Sonora, technical upgrade was limited. (Obviously, this survey captured only a small
part of the diverse reality of Mexico's irrigated areas.) Only a minority of the water users
that were interviewed reported receiving a subsidy explicitly for irrigation investment and
an even smaller proportion had upgraded to pressurized irrigation (Table 2). However,
most of the upgrade took place after the startup of the two projects assessed, suggesting
they may have contributed. Access to groundwater sources favors the introduction of
pressurized irrigation, helping to explain why District Costa de Hermosillo-which                          is


6. 1977-84: Government of MexicoIWorld Bank, Public Sector Investment Review (report No. 63712), Washington,
DC, 1986; 1997-2002: Anexo del Cuarto Informe del Gobiemo (table on "Infraestrutura Hidroagricola"), Mexico, DF,
September 1, 2004.

7. E.V. Palacios, "Benefits and Second-Generation Problems of Irrigation management Transfer in Mexico" in D.
Groenfeldt & M. Svendsen (eds.) Case Studies in Participatory Irrigation Management, WBI Learning Resource Series,
Report No. 20247, 1997, p. 16.

8. PRODEP, Implementation Completion Report (No. 24603), December 2002, p. 11.

entirely geared to groundwater-showed                   the highest incidence of investment. From the
first moment after transfer investment in Costa Hermosillo focused on farm-level
improvements, giving it a head start in relation to other Districts where rehabilitation of
head works and the primary canal network had to be accomplished before the need for
on-farm improvements could be attended to.


Table 2. Investment in Irrigation

% of users who reported...        ...receiving a public     ...installing           ...installing pressurized
                                  Irrigation subsidy        pressurized irrigation  irrigation since 1990
Districts
Rio Lerma, Salvatierra (N=39)               12.8
Rio Lerrna,. Cortazar (N=31)                35.5
Rio Mayo, Module 04 (N=39)                  10.3
Rio Mayo, Module 13 (N=32)                  15.6
Costa de Hermosillo (N=48)                  56.2
Units
Las Golondrinas (N=16)                      37.5
El Cubo (N=34)                              17.6


Source: OED Survey, 2005.


Objective (ii). Strengthen Decentralization by Consolidating District Transfer

3.21         This objective was achieved. A central aspect of decentralization was transfer of
the public Irrigation Districts. A number of complementary measures were also
important. First, the staffing of the Comision Nacional del Agua needed adjusting.
Second, the water user associations needed strengthening. Third, the burden of operation
and maintenance costs needed to be shifted from government to the users.

3.22         The first project (PSRD) amply exceeded the transfer target. The original
intention was to transfer 21 out of a total of 82 Districts; by project end 72 Districts had
been transferred. The momentum continued after the project. Today there are 85 Districts
and all but 4 have been handed over to users. Most of this transfer was accomplished
under PSRD auspices, between 1991 and 1994,with involvement of 431 user
associations.

3.23         As part of the push for decentralization the number of staff working on
irrigation for the Comision Nacional del Agua was reduced. From 1990to mid-1994,42
          of the Comision personnel involved in irrigation operation and maintenance were
retired or released. The PSRD completion report notes that "the elimination of unionized
staff controlling operation and maintenance activities has removed one of the farmers'
major complaint^".^ Since 1990 the number of staff working in the Districts has fallen
from 8,000 to around 3,000. According to Johnson, the staffing target for the Districts-
based on projections in the early 1990s about the number of staff needed following
transfer (around 2,000)-had             been achieved by 1998.But the number of staff today is
about 3,000, 1000 of whom are effectively (but not formally) redundant.''



9. Report No. 22165, April 2001, p. 8, footnote 5

10. For the 2,000 target, see Table 6 in S.H. Johnson, Irrigation Management Transfer in Mexico, Research Report No.
16, International Irrigation Management Institute, 1997.In responding to an earlier draft of this report, the Comision
informed OED that in June 2004 there were 3,271 employees working on the Districts. But 1,014 of these were without

3.24         Towards the end of PSRD implementation the user associations were, for the
most part, operating soundly. The 1999 survey (paragraph 2.2) found that most
associations rated highly on organization and accounting, and on the operation and
maintenance tasks for which they were responsible. Of the five areas of performance
rated-Organization,           Operation, Maintenance, Accounting, and Technical Efficiency and
Modernization, only the last showed significant shortfalls (Annex 5, Table A5.3). A
particular problem was the lack of attempt to measure the quantity of water applied to
fields and to set targets for more efficient water use. Also, there was some weakness in
forward planning reflected in absence of measures to replace worn out equipment and to
build up a contingency fund.

3.25        The absence of a contingency or savings fund severely weakens the water user
associations. In the 1999 survey only 6 percent of associations kept such a fund. This
would be less critical if the volume of water authorized was the same from one year to
the next. But in periods of drought (the case for the north-west in much of the past five
years) the volume authorized for release from reservoirs is reduced and because
associations have less water to sell their funds shrink, leading maintenance to be deferred.
Water user associations could tackle this by levying a special quota in years of good
water availability, creating a fund that could be used to keep maintenance up in years
when water is scarce. But the Comision advocates an alternative approach which would
entail reducing the size of the Districts to bring them more in line with available water
supply, reducing the sharp fluctuations between years in the area irrigated.

3.26        Decentralization was also predicated on increased recovery of costs from users.
Water tariffs roughly quadrupled at the time of transfer, users increasing their share of
operation and maintenance costs from 20 percent to an average of 90 percent. This was a
slight shortfall in terms of project targets: for Districts covered by PSRD the target was
100 percent recovery. Since transfer, although most associations have continued to raise
their tariffs in nominal terms, the increase has not keep up with inflation leading, in most
cases, to a deferment of maintenance. Delays in performing maintenance works, in turn,
make water users reluctant to agree to tariff increases. But there are exceptions: in the
District of Rio Alto Lerma OED found that tariffs had increased slightly in real terms
over the past decade (Figure 1).




ajob to do given that their functions had been taken over by the water user associations. On the other hand, the number
of mid-level staff (263 in June 2004) was short by 39, reflecting the high response to the government's voluntary
retirement program. The Comision concedes that a more effective staffing strategy should have been put in place at the
moment of the transfer (Communication No. B00.06.04.420,July 12,2005).

                              Fig. 1 Water Tariff, District of Alto Rio Lerma
                             (Real: 1993 pesos) Source: Comite Hidraulico




                              o - ~ r n d r n$ 3 & mm m O -o No
                              m m      m m m                   m  o
                              : c ? : : : c c : : R R %


3.27       One issue is whether tariffs are high enough to cover the costs of administration
plus operation and maintenance; the other is whether they are actually collected. Unlike
in many countries, tariff collection in Mexico is assured because the user has to pay for
the water before it is delivered. The 1999 survey found that in 87 percent of the
associations, users complied with their statutory obligations (which include payment of
tariffs), in 73 percent, the water tariff was revised each year and, in 63 percent, the
association was taking steps toward financial self-sufficiency (Annex 5, Table A5.3).

Objective (iii): Increase Productivity

3.28       This objective was partially achieved: there was an increase in physical yields
but, in real terms, revenues per unit of land and water did not increase. Between 1985-89
and 1999-03-that       is, comparing the periods before and after transfer-the   mean
harvested area in the Districts fell by 18percent. In real terms, gross output value
declined by exactly half that amount, reflecting an improvement in physical yields rather
than an improvement in prices. Between the two periods mean tons of produce per
hectare rose by 50 percent (from 9.7tlha to 14.5tlha). In constant pesos, gross revenue per
hectare rose by 10percent (from $5,356/ha to $5,901/ha)."

3.29       Underlying the sluggish growth in farm revenues is a combination of falling real
prices for the major grains and a rise in the share of the Districts devoted to these crops.
Between 1990 and 2003, in constant pesos, the average rural price of maize and wheat
plummeted respectively by 40 percent and 39 percent; the price of sorghum, the third-
ranked grain by area, held roughly steady. Between them these three grains accounted on
average for 51 percent of the harvested area in 1985-89 and 61 percent in 1999-03
(Figure 2). In the case of maize, although price supports have been reduced substantial
protection is still conferred through marketing subsidies. When the irrigation projects
assessed here were being designed one of the stated objectives (Table 1)was to promote
crop diversification. So far this has not happened to any significant degree. This is a
function not only of distortions in the incentive regime; it reflects the high risks
associated with diversification, the limited development of contract farming and export
niches and the relative inflexibility of the water supply in the Districts: most of the water
is from surface sources and does not lend itself to the on-demand irrigation required by
many fi-uit and vegetable crops. According to the Comision, the main constraint on


11. Data supplied to OED by the Comision Nacional del Agua.

diversification of the Districts is the difficulty that farmers face in obtaining working
capital credit and the complications and risks involved in marketing perishable produce.
Providing farmers with the right irrigation infrastructure is a necessary but not a
sufficient condition for diversification.


                         Figure 2. Primacy of Grains in Irrigation Districts
                                Before and After Transfer Period
                              (Source: Comision Nacional del Agua)




                                 ..
                  I
                                      Ma~ze      Wheat      Sorghum

                  I




3.30      There is a notable discrepancy in revenue per hectare between the Districts and
the Units (Figure 3; Annex 4). Both before and after the transfer period, the Units reaped
higher gross revenues per hectare. This reflects the greater use that Units make of
groundwater compared to the Districts: the greater reliability and flexibility of this source
facilitates crop diversification and irrigation upgrade, pushing up productivity. To a
smaller extent the discrepancy between Units and Districts may also reflect differences in
entrepreneurial skills. Because they have a long tradition of operating independently of
the government, on aggregate, water users in the Units may be better organized and more
resourceful than those in the Districts. If this skills gap has narrowed somewhat since
transfer it has yet to show up in a substantial narrowing of the productivity gap between
Districts and Units. But the Comision points out that data on the Units are less systematic
and less reliable than those on the Districts, making it hard to be sure that there is a large
productivity gap. (By the same token the gap might be larger than the existing data
suggest.)

         7-    -



                   Figure 3. Land Productivity of Irrigation Units and
                             Districts (1993 pesos per ha)
         I
         I                 (Source: Palacios, ColposICNA)




                                                                        a-- Districtsi

3.31        The data on productivity per unit of water reveal a similar gap between Units
and Districts. Here the measure of productivity is gross revenue per cubic meter of water,
comparing the volume of water allocated with the value of crops grown. From the pre-
transfer to the post transfer period the gap remained more or less the same (Figure 4;
Annex 4).


                   Figure 4. Water Productivity of Irrigation Units and
                                  Districts (1993 pesos per m3)
                                (Source: Palacios, ColposlCNA)




3.32        Data on farm incomes from OED's 2005 survey are consistent with the lack of
productivity growth referred to above. Unsurprisingly, for two-thirds or more of users
irrigated farming is the single most important source of income. Overall, only one-quarter
of respondents report that this income source has grown in relative importance since 1995
(although for Rio Mayo, Module 04, the proportion is over 40 percent). Finally, in only
one-fifth of cases do users report that the total household income (in terms of purchasing
power) has grown over the past 10 years.

(c) Efficiency

3.33        For both projects efficiency is rated "substantial", despite some suggestion that
the completion report overestimated the economic rate of return. With respect to the ten
key Districts common to both PSRD and PRODEP-accounting                             for about one-half the
total irrigated area in all Districts-gross         crop revenue fell by 21percent compared to an
increase of 27 percent in the other districts (Table 3).l This was largely a consequence of
                                                                     2

differences in water availability. Six out of the ten project Districts are located in the
Pacific Northwest, an area that was hard hit by drought in the late 1990s.The share of
water derived from pumping groundwater was the same for the ten-district subset and the
other districts: 15percent in both cases. It is regional differences in the incidence of
drought rather than differences in access to groundwater (which fluctuates less than water
in reservoirs) that explains the output gap.




12. Rio Yaqui, Delicias, Alto Rio Lerma, Rio Colorado, Bajo Rio San Juan, Rio Mayo, Carrizo, Rio Fuerte, Culiacan,
and Cuasave. One district was unique to PSRD: Colonias Yaquis. Four districts were unique to PRODEP: La Laguna,
Pabellon, Lazaro Cardenas and Bajo Rio Bravo.

Table 3. Trend: Project Subset of Irrigation Districts Compared to Other Districts

                                           1993                      2003                   % Change

Harvested Area

('000 ha)

Project subset

Other Districts

Gross Crop Revenue (Millions of
1993 pesos)

Project subset                             9,242

Other Districts                            6,173                     7,859                  27.3

Gross Water Availability

(Million m3)

Project subset                             19,435                    10,759                 -44.6

Other Districts                            12,186                    13,569                 11.3

Note. Subset refers to 10 Districts common to PSRD and PRODEP. Rio Yaqui, Delicias, Alto Rio Lerma, Rio
Colorado, Bajo Rio San Juan, Rio Mayo, Carrizo, Rio Fuerte, Culiacan, and Guasave.



3.34       In the completion report, the economic rate of return was re-estimated as 32
percent for PSRD. The economic analysis was extremely thorough. The assumptions
about yields and prices were conservative and consistent with recent trends. The eleven
districts chosen accounted for 46 percent of the investment cost and 46 percent of the
area transferred." But the analysis fails to allow for the 20 percent shrinkage of the
harvested area that has affected these districts-a              consequence of the declining
availability of surface water. It is also overoptimistic about the level of diversification
into high-margin crops, assuming that by Year 10 of the project, 42 percent of crop
returns would be derived from chili peppers and tomatoes; in practice, these crops
accounted jointly for 11percent of gross revenue in 2003. If the economic analysis is
adjusted to allow for these factors the rate of return falls to 15percent (Annex 6).
Although this is a significant reduction the rate of return is still acceptable, leading OED
to rate efficiency of PSRD as substantial.

3.35       In the case of PRODEP, the completion report based the analysis on 14 districts,
10 of which were the same as for PSRD, and used the same farm models. Making the
same adjustments for PRODEP that were made for PRSD may be expected also to yield a
revised rate of return of around 15percent, compared to the 35 percent estimated at
completion.

3.36       These estimates are based only on the Districts but the two projects also covered
Irrigation Units: PSRD from the outset and PRODEP following a mid-tern amendment
to the project agreement. But it is not clear from the completion reports how many Units
were covered and what area they represented. In general, information on the Units is less
systematic than that for the Districts making it hard to monitor any difference the projects
might have made here.


13. The 11 were: Valle del Yaqui, Delicias, Alto Rio Lerma, Rio Colorado, Colonias Yaquis, Bajo Rio San Juan, Valle
del Rio Mayo, Carrizo, Rio Fuerte, Culiacan, Humaya and Guasave.

 3.37         In summary, the outcon~eof both PSRD and PRODEP is rated satisfactory,
 based on the aggregation shown in Table 4.


 Table 4. Derivation of the Outcome Rating

                                     lrrigation and Drainage Sector  On-Farm and Minor Irrigation
                                     Project (PSRD)                  Networks Improvement Project
                                                                     (PRODEP)
                                                                -
 CRITERINI

 Relevance                           High                            High

 Efficacy                            Substantial                    Substantial

 Efficiency                          Substantial                    Substantial
-
 Outcome                             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory

 11 The criteria are defined in the frontispiece of this report.




 3.38         Both projects are rated "substantial" on institutional development impact. The
irrigation projects substantially empowered water user groups to assume control over the
management of the Districts. Also, under the auspices of PSRD, a National Water Law
was passed in 1994,permitting the sale of water rights, this enabling more efficient
 farmers to expand their operations and giving non-farm users the right to bid for water.
The legal framework governing the cost recovery obligations of the user associations was
 adequately worked out, although there is still a gap with respect to measures for limiting
the overexploitation of water. A further weakness concerns the absence of an integrated
planning framework for the Units and Districts-the                 Units are not negligible accounting
 for 47 percent of the irrigated area.

3.39         Both projects were founded on an assumption that the federal government's
fiscal burden would be reduced by the process of District transfer, because water users
would recover a larger share of total costs. This is not the case. Because water tariffs have
not yet reached self-sufficiency level the associations continue to depend partly on
government for the funding of operation and maintenance tasks that are formally the
associations' responsibility. Federal spending on these items has not fallen in real terms
since 1991 (see paragraph 3.23), despite the reduction in Comision staff working on
operation and maintenance (Figure 5). The 1993-97bulge reflects deferred maintenance
which the Comision carried out as a parting gesture before or shortly after the Districts
were transferred. It also shows the extent of government response to a drought in
northern Mexico in 1995-96. User associations had no water to deliver to farmers, the
collection of fees dropping to nearly zero. The government stepped in with a 100percent
subsidy for most associations, staving off their collapse.l4




 14. PRODEP Implementation Completion Report, (No. 24603), December 2002, p. 21

                   Figure 5. Public Spending on Operation and
                        Maintenance of Irrigation Districts
                   (Source: Anexo Estadistico, Cuarto Informe)

           In
           0




3.40      Also, the rate of improvement in the quality of irrigation service seems to have
leveled off since District transfer. The performance of the water user associations was
assessed, using two sets of evidence. First, the 1999rating instrument was reapplied by
OED in early 2005, the ratings being based on interviews with key informants (Annex 5,
Table A5.1). The ranking was the same in 2005 as it was in 1999, with the Rio Mayo
modules scoring highest and Costa de Hermosillo showing the weakest performance. All
of the areas performed slightly less well in 2005 than in 1999 but this may not be
significant because it was not possible to re-interview the same people.

3.41      Application of the rating instrument was combined with an open ended
discussion with officials in the CNA District office and in the modules. In both states
informants described how water was being overexploited (too many withdrawals from
dams in Sonora; mining of aquifers in Sonora and Guanajuato). In the case of
groundwater, decentralization has not been accompanied by adequate measures to
enforce those provisions of the National Water Law that aim to control the rate of
extraction. In some cases (e.g. Costa de Hermosillo) there are conflicting accounts of how
much is removed each year from the aquifer, coupled with uncertainty about the stock of
water available. CNA has little control over the rate at which private wells are sunk (most
drilling taking places in Units) and imprecise data about the level of withdrawals from
these sources. The lack of an integrated planning framework for Units and Districts
aggravates this problem.

3.42      A second source of information is OED's 2005 survey of water users. To the
extent possible the 2005 instrument incorporated items applied in the same modules in
Rio Mayo in a 1994 survey. Asked if irrigation services had improved since transfer, in
1994 and 2005, a majority of respondents in h o Mayo Module 13 said "yes" and, also in
both years, were more positive than those in Module 04 (which has currently been taken
back under CNA management following a leadership dispute). But over the period there
was some decline in the share of users in Module 13who reported that service had
improved (Annex 5, Table A5.2).

3.43      The OED survey gives a mixed reading of improvements in the quality of
irrigation service. On various measures of "fairness" (Table 5), a minority of users
interviewed in 2005 reported that circumstances have improved since the start of the
transfer period. The Units present a more positive picture than the Districts.

 Table 5. Fairness: Change Between Circumstances Before 1990 ("Pre-Transfer")
 and Now
               .-.-       -
 % of users who             ...terms of less            ...the way in    ...terms of         ...the way in
 reported an                corruption (less           which water       reduced             which the
 improvement in...          br~bingof ditch            is distributed   conflict             water tariff is
                            tenders to supply          between           between users       determined
                            more than the agreed       users            over access to
                            amount of water)                            water

 lrrigation Districts

 Rio Lerma, Salvatierra     46.2
 (N=39)

 Rio Lerma,. Cortazar       45.2
 (N=31)

 Rio Mayo, Module 04        20.5
 (N=39)

 Rio Mayo, Module 13        34.4
 (N=32)

 Costa de Hermosillo        Na
 (N=48)

 lrrigation Units

 Las Golondrinas            43.8
 (N=16)

 El Cubo (N=34)             52.9                       70.6             61.8                 67.6
.-

 AN (N=239)                 39.8                       43.I              35.6                33.9

 Source: OED Survey, 2005 (Na=not applicable: ditches are not significant in Costa de Hermosillo).


 3.44         What of change over the last decade? A majority of users in 2005 report that the
 water user association defends its members interests and makes a good use of funds. But
 less than 50 percent feel that in these areas there has been an improvement over the past
 10 years (Table 6). Once again, a more positive picture emerges from the Units than the
 Districts.


 Table 6. User Assessment of the Water User Association

 % of users who reported...       ...that the WUA   ...that WUA defense of      ...that the WUA     ...that WUA use of
                                 defends the        user interests has         makes good use       funds from water
                                 interests of users improved over the last     of funds raised      tariffs has
                                                    10 years                   from water tariffs   improved over the
                                                                                                    last 10 years
 lrrigation Districts
 Rio Lerma, Salvatierra (N=39)   69.2               38.5                       61.5                 15.4
 Rio Lerma,. Cortazar (N=31)     35.5               32.3                        38.7                25.8
 Rio Mayo, Module 04 (N=39)      53.8               38.5                       48.7                 35.9
 Rio Mayo, Module 13 (N=32)      78.1               62.5                        71.9                50.0
 Costa de Hermosillo (N=48)      54.2               33.3                        54.2                20.8
 lrrigation Units
 Las Golondrinas (N=16)          93.8               50.0                        81.3                50.0
 El Cubo (N=34)                  64.7               67.6                        61.8                52.9
 All (N=239)                      61.5              44.8                       57.7                 33.5
 Source: OED Survey, 2005

3.45      The sustainability of PSRD and PRODEP is rated "likely". The District transfer
process is unlikely to be reversed and, even if the potential for more efficient water use
has not yet been realized, transfer was a step in the right direction. Nevertheless, there is
an undeniable need to use water more sparingly. The District of Costa de Hermosillo is
illustrative. It generates high returns per unit of water used but according to various
independent estimates withdrawals from the aquifer exceed the annual rate of recharge.
OED encountered a similar problem with respect to groundwater supplies in the District
of Alto Rio Lerma and neighboring Units.


BANKAND BORROWERPERFORMANCE

3.46      For both irrigation projects, performance of Bank and Borrower was
satisfactory. The Bank's technical input was generally of high quality. The projects'
successful contribution to the upgrade of irrigation works partly reflected the quality,
continuity and accessibility of expertise fielded by the Bank. One of the task managers
was an experienced irrigation engineer who worked on the projects for eight years, three
of these based in the Mexico resident mission. The projects' design was flexible enough
to accommodate mid-course adjustments that favored technical upgrade. The Bank has
also been effective in showcasing the Mexican experience, by inviting irrigation
professionals from other countries on study tours designed to promote participatory
irrigation management.

3.47      Once it had overcome initial resistance to "letting go", the implementing
agency, Comision Nacional de Agua, made a highly satisfactoryjob of expediting the
transfer process. The performance of government overall (leaving aside the Comision) is
rated moderately satisfactory given the significant disbursement delays. Adding up, this
yields an aggregate Borrower performance rating of satisfactory.

4.         The Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project

OBJECTIVES

4.1          Based on the statement of development objectives (Table 7), this assessment
derives three primary objectives:

(i)       Raise poor farmers' access to investment subsidies;
(ii)      Enhance agricultural services for small farmers; and
(iii)     Strengthen decentralization.

Table 7. Objectives of the Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project


" r h e project development objective is...] To increase capitalization of small farmers and improve their
productivity and income by promoting the adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems, by
providing technical and financial assistance to eligible beneficiaries under a matching grant scheme. This
would be done within the framework of selected programs currently being executed under the ongoing
Agricultural Development Program Alianza para el Campo. This objective would be achieved through: (i) the
improvement of access of small and poor farmers to the activities currently supported by the three
programs of the currently 90 percent disbursed Bank-financed Rainfed Areas Development Project, as well
as the Rural Development Program, that are being exercised under Alianza; (ii) promotion of a better
integration of the various activities of Alianza aimed at development of irrigated and rainfed agriculture;
(iii) generation, validation and transfer of technologies suited to small farmer production conditions;
(iv) strengthening production support services for small farmers; and (v) support of the Government
promoted decentralization process by strengthening the planning and implementation capacity of the State
institutions and producers' organizations" (Project Appraisal Document, p. 2, emphasis added).



DESIGN      AND IMPLEMENTATION

4.2          Thepvogvam. The project (ALCAMPO) supported the government's Alianza
para el Campo program, which was launched in 1996 and continues to operate to this
day." Alianza aims to boost productivity by providing matching grants for a variety of
farm and off-farm investments and by delivering research, extension, information and
training services. It is a complex program offering a broad menu of federal, state and
regional subprograms. In 2000, it comprised 40 federal programs administered by the
Ministry of Agriculture, plus additional programs administered by the Cornision Nacional
del Agua (Figure 6). In order to reduce Alianza's administrative overhead, the program
was executed by existing federal and state agencies, rather than by a specialized unit.




15. The program was renamed Alianza Contigo with the change of administration in 2001.

                       Figure 6. Size of Alianza Subprograms




4.3       Alianza is not intended to be a targeted program. The question is not so much
whether subsidies favor better off groups (they clearly do) but whether they represent an
effective use of public resources. A key principle of Alianza is leverage. On average, for
every peso invested by the federal government, producers put in 2.82 pesos, of which
only 1.67pesos were obligatory matching funds-the               balance being an additional
contribution by the beneficiary. l6 But some of this producer funding may be forthcoming
even if the program did not exist. The FAO-Ministry of Agriculture evaluation classifies
beneficiaries into five socioeconomic types. Types IV to V (the better off) account for 19
percent of beneficiaries and capture 24 percent of the subsidy.'' It is possible that many in
this group would have made the investment even without a subsidy. For lack of a control
group of non-beneficiaries (matched by income level) the program's leverage is
impossible to assess.

4.4       The income effect of Alianza seems to have been greatest for those who are
already fairly comfortable. Better-off producers were more likely to report an increase in
income following participation in the Alianza program: 34 percent of beneficiaries in the
bottom income stratum reported an increase in income, compared to 47 percent of the
middle stratum and 52 percent of the top ~tratum.'~Among illiterate beneficiaries, 23
percent said their income increased compared to 53 percent of those with post-secondary
education. The type of land tenure also influenced the increase in income: 46 percent of
private owners benefiting from the program reported an income increase compared to 35
percent of beneficiaries in the land reform and communal sector.19

4.5       Thepvoject. ALCAMPO worked within the framework of the broader Alianza
program but applied a tighter set of eligibility criteria to ensure that funds were channeled
to a subset of beneficiaries that would be poorer than the program average. At appraisal it
was characterized as a targeted intervention. The project financed demand-driven


16. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Informe General, 2000, p. 76 & p. 120.

17. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Informe General, 2003, p.9.

18. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Informe General, 2000, p. 83.

19. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Informe General, 2000, p. 108.

investment subprojects using matching grants with the beneficiary contribution made up
front in cash or kind. The matching grants were financed jointly by central and state
government and the terms varied between each of the four subprograms supported by the
project. For irrigation development there was a grant equal to 35 percent of the cost of
the subproject with eligibility limited to farms no larger than 30 hectares. For the two
subprograms dairy technology improvement and irnprovedpasture establishment there
was a grant of 50 percent limited to producers with no more than 70 cows. Finally, under
the rural development subprogram, up to US$2,220 per beneficiary would be provided to
households fanning on less than 20 hectares of rainfed land or 5 hectares of irrigated
land.

4.6       In addition to the targeting implicit in these eligibility criteria, the project aimed
to target particular groups and regions:

        "The project activities, although nationwide in scope, would be targeted to groups
        of eligible beneficiaries including indigenous people, women and mral youth
        located mostly in the Center and Southern States of the country, i.e.,the areas
        with the largest concentration of small and poor farmers. Eligibility of households
        would be screened applying simple and easily verifiable criteria based on size of
        holding and/or livestock assets." (Project Appraisal Document, p. 6)

The project used the framework of the broader program for pragmatic reasons: the Bank
hoped that using existing arrangements and procedures would help to smooth
disbursement, avoiding the problems encountered by other Bank-supported projects that
did not have such an established home. Thus, a targeted project was inserted within an
untargeted program. A considerable monitoring effort was needed to ensure that the
government agencies applied eligibility criteria for the (minority of) subprojects financed
by the project that were tighter than the criteria applied by those same agencies to the
(majority) of subprojects financed within Alianza but outside the project. Only the first
five subprojects financed by ALCAMPO were subject to prior review by the Bank. The
appraisal document notes that this limited review "would be largely compensated by a
significant effort to monitor procurement procedures as part of project supervision",
including "field review of a sample of subprojects" (p. 53).




(a) Relevance

4.7       The relevance of ALCAMPO to current strategy is rated "modest". The 2004
MexicoIBank strategy contains no reference to Alianza and expresses no support for the
principle of capital investment subsidies. Neverthless, Alianza has continued to grow in
both absolute and relative terms. Clearly it is still considered relevant by the government,
if not by the Bank. However, in the context of Mexico's overall development needs, it
probably does not represent a sound use of public resources given weak targeting and the
evidence (examined below) that the process for identifying and appraising subprojects
lacks rigor.

(b) Efficacy

Objective (i): Raise Poor Farmers' Access to Investment Subsidies

4.8        It is not possible to assess if this objective was achieved because project
monitoring and evaluation was, in the words of the completion report, "unsatisfactory".
Therefore, it is not possible to verify if the project-specific targeting rules were observed
by the multiple agencies involved in project implementation; nor is it clear what share of
project proceeds went to the poorer states or benefited the groups (including indigenous
people and women) identified as a priority at appraisal. The challenge of building a
monitoring system capable of spanning the 32 state governments and the regional offices
of the Ministry of Agriculture proved insurmountable. As an alternative, the completion
report could have drawn on data from the sample of subprojects selected for field review
during supervision. But this data is missing from the completion report and was not
available to OED. Instead the completion report relies on the series of annual evaluations
conducted by FA0 and the Ministry of Agriculture. These evaluations provide
information on the overall Alianza program. This dataset does not separate out
subprojects financed by ALCAMPO. The quality and reliability of the information varies
widely between the states, because the evaluation employed different consultant teams in
each state.

4.9        Program and project may, to some extent, have worked against poor farmer
access to investment subsidies. ALCAMPO (like Alianza) required that would-be
beneficiaries make an upfront contribution to the subproject investment cost. There were
no credit facilities to help the would-be beneficiaries cover their share of the subproject
cost. (In commenting on an earlier draft of this report, the Bank task manager argued that
applicants could have used funds from Procampo, a transfer program, to cover this cost;
but it is not clear that Procampo supplied the necessary surplus over subsistence needs.)
Also, the matching grant was retroactive and at the moment they were required to make
the investment applicants could not be sure that they would qualify for it.

4.10       Taking the program as a whole, access to the investment subsidies appears to
have had a positive impact on incomes. The FA0 evaluation of Alianza found that
participation in Rural Development (which absorbed one-half of ALCAMPO's
subproject funding) was associated with the following increases in beneficiary income:
26 percent for crop production; 37 percent for livestock production; and 59 percent for
rural non-farm activities. However, because the evaluation did not include a control
group of non-beneficiaries it is impossible to estimate how much of this increase was
attributable to the program. Also, because the FA0 evaluation was program-wide in
scope it is not clear what share of benefits may be attributed to the Bank-supported
project.

Objective (ii): Enhance Agricultural Services for Small Farmers

4.11      This objective was partly achieved. There were some positive signs. The
completion report states that, in the farming systems targeted by the project, productivity
increased by 20 percent, compared to the 25 percent forecast at appraisal. The number of

beneficiaries served by project-supported extension services was 540,000, 54 percent
more than projected.

4.12       Other evidence is less positive. ALCAMPO had a sizeable research and
extension component (accounting for one-third of project costs) and the completion
report states that it was reflected in an upturn in federal funding of these services. But the
same source notes that state governments have not supported these activities and the
available programs are not sufficiently demand driven: it is the suppliers of these services
and not farmers who set the priorities. In general, technical assistance did not adequately
complement the investments in infrastsucture: for example, under ALCAMPO, it was
provided to only seven percent of the producers who received subsidies for pasture
improvement.20

4.13       Taking Alianza as a whole, technical assistance was short changed. Successive
FA0 evaluations have shown that the income impact of Alianza support is greater the
higher the level of technical assistance provided." The absence of supporting technical
assistance for Alianza investments has been noted by several evaluation^.^^ Only one-
third of Alianza beneficiaries received technical assistance as a complement to the
subproject investment; two-thirds expressed a need for such a~sistance.~~

4.14       Of the beneficiaries in the Crop Promotion subprogram in 2001,26 percent
experienced an increase in the level of technology that was attributable to Alianza
            For the program as a whole there was less impact: only 10percent of
beneficiaries reported technical upgrade.25Most of the investments subsidized by
Alianza were used to replace or rehabilitate existing equipment or systems, rather than to
promote the shift to a higher technical plane. This is mainly because only better-off
producers could put up the matching funds, and most of these producers tended already to
be operating at a relatively high technical level before they received the subsidy.

4.15       Producers in lower income strata reported more technical change as a
consequence of the program than those in higher strata. Figure 7 is based on the
equipment and inputs used in crop farming, assigning each item to a scale.26It suggests
that farmers in the lowest socioeconomic strata were more likely than better-off farmers
to move to a higher technological plane as a result of receiving the Alianza subsidy. For a
program whose ultimate aim was to boost productivity, this lack of targeting to poorer
producers seems to indicate a missed opportunity, given that it is the less-rich farmers
that show the highest response potential.




20. Report No. 29439, June 2004, pp. 7-8.

21. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Informe GeneralG, 2003, p. 41.

22. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Informe General, 2000, p. 50.

23. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Informe General, 2000, p. 46.

24. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Fomento Agricola, 2003, p. 69.

25. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Conclusiones, 2002, p. 26.

26. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Informe General, 2003, p.37.

        --      -    --



        I
        I        Figure7. Level of Technology of Crop Farmers               I
                        Before and After Alianza Support
        I
        ~
        I             (Source: FAOISAGARPAEvaluation)

                                                                            1




                                                                   Before

                                                                rn After

                                                         --
           I-
                       I         ll       Ill        IV     v

                           Socioeconomic Strata (I=Lowest)



Objective (iii): Strengthen Decentralization

4.16      This objective was not achieved. Bank funds earmarked for strengthening
decentralization were not disbursed, the loan proceeds being reallocated to the financing
of investment subprojects. ALCAMPO did not improve the capacity of state governments
to administer the Alianza program. Contrary to expectations it did not help to improve
subproject preparation and selection mechanisms, either by state governments or by
central government.

4.17      At the program level, the project had little leverage over the share of the subsidy
borne by state governments-a       share that has declined slightly over time (Figure 8). The
steep rise in the federal government's share partly reflects the growth in importance of
the Rural Development subprogram which involves lower producer co-financing. It is the
central rather than the state governments that has picked up the slack.


                          Figure 8. Alianza Cost Sharing
                   (Source: Anexo Estadistico, Cuarto Informe)




4.18      The state governments' share of program costs has declined partly because state
governments still find the operating sules inflexible, preferring to put most of their sural
development funds into state-specific initiatives where they can set their own priorities."
The incentive mechanism governing state contributions to Alianza is flawed. In principle,


27. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Informe General, 2003, p. 20

 the volume of federal transfers to any given state is related to the amount subscribed by
 that state the previous year. But, in practice, the level of federal transfers is only weakly
 correlated with state contribution^.'^ Also, the level of federal oversight of the program
 has weakened. Since 2001 state governments have been given full control over resource
 allocation (of federal funds as well as the state counterpart) for each of the main
 subprograms.

 (c) Efficiency

 4.19        Efficiency is rated modest. The economic analysis in the completion report
 shows acceptable rates of return to a number of farm models (16 percent, on average).
 But the data informing this analysis were not based on a survey of poor farmers that had
 received ALCAMPO funding. Second the analysis covered three of the four subprograms
 financed by ALCAMPO, leaving out Rural Development-which                                  accounted for 80
percent of project beneficiaries. Was funding from this subprogram well used? Subsidies
 may have been too thinly spread to have a big impact on productivity. Beneficiary
households received, on average US$250 per household, compared to the US$2,200 that
was expected at appraisal. The equipment subsidized was very modest (e.g. knapsack
 sprayers).

 (d) Adding Up: Overall Outcome

4.20         In summary, the outcome of ALCAMPO is rated unsatisfactory (Table 8).
Owing to the project's monitoring deficiencies it is unclear how many, or by how much,
the project's target group of poorer producers actually benefited.

Table 8. Derivation of the Outcome Rating
                                                Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project

-                                               (ALCAMPO)
CRITERIA11
Relevance                                       Modest
Efficacy                                        Modest


I1 The criteria are defined in the frontispiece of this report.


Institutional Development Impact

4.21         ALCAMPO's institutional development impact is rated "negligible". Given that
the follow-on project mooted in the 2002 Country Assistance Strategy was dropped, in
the long run, what counted was the mark left by this single project on the continuing
program. Although project spending amounted to almost one-half billion dollars, the
implementation period was relatively short (four years), reducing the opportunity for
project leverage over the efficiency of program resource allocation.

4.22         Does the Alianza process ensure that the best proposals get selected? The
operating rules state that subproject proposals will be subject to technical and financial
appraisal in order to ensure that only projects with the highest potential for boosting



28. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, lnforme General, 2003, p. 20

productivity are selected. Since 2001 there has been less oversight of the appraisal
process by central government. The initiative has passed from FIRCO (a federal agency
experienced in project appraisal) to state governments. State governments have not taken
steps to train their staff in project appraisal and the loss of rigor in the appraisal process is
a~knowledged.~'According to the FA0 evaluation, "in some cases, state governments
review each proposal up to six times, but none of these reviews amounts to a serious
appraisal and often there is no detailed check that the proposals meet the eligibility
requirements for Alianza s~pport".'~The system of incentives rewards the speed of
disbursement more than the rigor with which appraisal is ~ndertaken.~~The order in
which proposals are presented has more bearing on which get accepted than the appraisal
process. Persons interviewed by OED confirmed that the prevailing principle is "first
come, first served". This makes it more likely that the better-connected will capture a
disproportionately large share of the benefits.

4.23        Equipment and input retailers play a big role in helping would-be beneficiaries
prepare investment proposals; this expedites the application process but brings a cost.
Many applicants lack the skills to prepare proposals. Retailers quickly learn what
proposals are most likely to be accepted and the outcome is quicker and surer if
applicants deal directly with retailers rather than the Alianza office. Retailers will
typically discount the equipment they sell by an amount equivalent to the subsidy, so sure
are they that they will subsequently be able to recoup the money from the program.
Informants noted that in some towns (e.g. Celaya) the number of retailers has risen
sharply since the start of Alianza. Retailers have an incentive to exaggerate the
sophistication and the cost of the equipment that is required; and, in a system where 90
percent of proposals get accepted, there is little external check on this inflationary bias.
Also, there is no explicit screening of the credentials and record of companies that sign
up to provide equipment and install systems for Alianza beneficiaries; and no formal
blacklisting of suppliers that do a bad job.

4.24        Flaws in the monitoring system reduce the program's capacity to leverage
productivity growth. The lack of up-to-date information on producer characteristics
makes it harder to channel resources to those with most potential for increased
productivity. None of the state governments have funded the baseline surveys that were
expected of them. A further concern is that the Alianza's weak arrangements for tracking
beneficiaries enable the same producer to benefit simultaneously from different
subprograms or in consecutive cycles of the same subprogram. In 2004, for the first time,
there was an attempt to redress this failing. During the first two months of the application
season, only persons who had not previously been funded by Alianza could apply.




29. F A O I S A G m A Evaluation, Informe General, 2003, p. 30.

30. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Informe General, p. 29.

31. FAOISAGARPA Evaluation, Fomento Agricola, 2003, p. 7.

4.25      Sustainability is rated "unlikely" because the project did not lead to the opening
of a permanent window in the broader program for addressing the needs of poorer
producers. Also, because of the monitoring failures it is impossible to evaluate the
soundness of the poor farmer investment subprojects that were actually financed by
ALCAMPO.


BANKAND BORROWERPERFORMANCE

4.26      Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. The Bank was initially leery of
Alianza, because the proposed targeting seemed weak; but at a later stage it relented.
Having refused to get involved with Alianza at the design phase, when the Bank climbed
aboard two years later it could not expect to fundamentally change the nature of the
program. It settled for tinkering at the margins, introducing tighter eligibility criteria for
project resources (compared to the program at large) and relying on sound supervision to
make a difference. There are two ways ofjudging the wisdom of this move. The first is
pragmatic. The Bank wanted to revitalize its agriculture portfolio in Mexico and it was
quicker to build on an existing program than construct a new vehicle (which might have
been difficult given the Bank's weak leverage in Mexico). Also, by backing Alianza the
Bank was buying a seat at the table, which it might use to promote reform above and
beyond this one program.

4.27     On the other hand, there was a reputational risk from associating with such a
poorly-targeted program. OED's 2001 Country Assistance Evaluation judged that the
Bank was wrong to get involved. The latest Country Assistance Strategy makes no
reference to the program and the follow-on project mooted in the 2002 Country
Assistance Strategy has now been dropped. By the time the Bank became involved the
die was cast and even with the best possible design and supervision the project would not
have been able to move the program in a progressive direction. This assessment has
assumed that the project's targeting criteria (which were stricter than those for the overall
program) were duly enforced. However, owing to the weakness of project monitoring, it
is not possible to prove this-indeed,  the completion report made no attempt to do so.
Also, this assessment finds that the focus of ALCAMPO was wrong. A key productivity
constraint in Mexico is the weakness of the framework for generating and transferring
agricultural technology. ALCAMPO dealt with this only tangentially: a more frontal
assault on the problem was needed.

4.28     Borrower performance for ALCAMPO is rated satisfactory: the government and
the implementing agency discharged their obligations to the project adequately.



5.      Findings and Lessons

5.1      Agricultural productivity growth has lagged in Mexico compared to other
countries in comparable circumstances. Since 1980 cereal yields have risen by one-third

in Mexico; in Brazil they doubled. In Mexico, agricultural value added per worker
increased by 22 percent over the past two decades; in Brazil it rose by 139percent.

5.2       The three projects assessed here need to be viewed in the light of Mexico's
weak agricultural productivity growth. The three projects could not by themselves have
overcome this weakness; but they did not go as far as they could to improve productivity.

5.3       The design of the two irrigation projects assessed here was consistent with a
push for higher productivity; but the expected results have not yet been delivered. The
shortfall has little to do with the performance of the implementing agency (Comision
Nacional del Agua), and is primarily a reflection of weaknesses in the incentive
environment and the absence of institutions needed to generate and disseminate improved
farm technologies. The Alianza program is explicitly intended to boost productivity but
has not targeted its resources at farmers (generally smaller, poorer producers) who have
the biggest potential for technical upgrade; a substantial share of the programs resources
finance the replacement of existing technology rather than achieving upgrade to a higher
technical plane. The Bank-supported input to Alianza (the ALCAMPO project) did not
have the leverage needed to address this design weakness.

5.4       In addition to this general finding, this assessment makes the following specific
observations:

       Investments in irrigation in Mexico continue to depend substantially on public
       sector support and there is no indication of fiscal savings following the peak
       period of District hand over (see paragraph 3.39 above).
       Although there was an immediate improvement following transfer, the quality of
       irrigation services has not continued to improve since then (paragraph 3.44).
       User associations have taken only limited steps toward financial self-sufficiency
       (paragraph 3.25).
       Producers in the Districts have not substantially diversified into higher-margin
       crops (paragraph 3.29).
       Weak control over the rate at which water is extracted from dams and aquifers,
       and the non-measurement of water use is the biggest problem facing Districts and
       Units (paragraphs 3.41, 3.45).
       The absence of an integrated planning framework for Districts and Units makes it
       harder to address the growing problem of water scarcity (paragraph 3.14).
       The absence of adequate technical support to farmers is a continuing problem-
       one that ALCAMPO did not adequately address (paragraph 4.10).

5.5       This assessment confirms the following OED lessons of broader relevance:

       Projects need to dovetail with programs; but well-designedprojects can rarely
       turn around a poorly-designedprogram. This is a particularly important lesson
       for the Bank's work in Mexico where leverage is limited. Mexico has ample
       access to alternative sources of funding, private as well as public. In line with the
       Bank's poverty reduction mandate, its resources should be tightly targeted, rather
       than added to programs where there is a high potential for subsidies to be captured
       by better-off groups.

The Bank's leverage may be substantially diluted when project fundsflow into a
multi-state program in which state governments have considerable influence over
the use to which resources areput. The number of interlocutors is so large that it
may make it difficult for the Bank to influence the overall direction-of   project as
much as program. For example, it is often difficult to secure support of state
governments for a monitoring and evaluation framework, particularly one that is
of uniform design applying the same approach in all states. Also, ALCAMPO
demonstrates how difficult it can be to persuade state governments to follow Bank
procedures for procurement andjustification of expenses.

Pvograms as large as Alianzn are candidatesfor formal impact evaluation. The
main limitation of the FAOISAGARPA evaluation of Alianza is the absence of a
control group of non-beneficiaries, a striking oversight given the level of funding
committed. The evaluation should have sampled those who did not apply to the
program; and those who applied but were rejected. (It is not clear that a list of the
rejected is maintained.) Without this control it is impossible to assess claims
about the program's leverage: much of the investment (and the income growth
attributed to it) might have occurred without a subsidy. Subsidies may have
leaked to better-off groups who don't need them.

                                                                                                                        Annex 1


Annex 1. Results Matrix-Irrigation and Drainage Sector
Project (L3419)

Objectives                                                Outputs                                                 Outcomes
                                           Expected                      Actual                   Expected                        Actual
(a) Make sound new irrigation    Total irrigatedarea          Total irrigatedarea         Benefit about 425,000       No data in ICR on N of
and drainage investmentsin       covered, 1.9 m. ha           covered,2.0 m. ha           farmers, of which 50%       beneficiariesor poverty
Districtsand the smaller Units   of which                     of which                    have an income lower        impact
(b) Exploit existing irrigation  132,000ha new                149,000ha new               than the minimumwage
and drainage schemes more        66,000 ha improved           49,000 ha improved                                      Agricultural output has
effectively in Districtsand the  753,000 ha deferred          360,000 ha deferred                                     grown by 4.8% per year in
smaller Units                    maintenance                  maintenance                                             1992-98,compared to 0.4%
                                 967,000 ha rehabilitated     1,403,000ha rehabilitated                               in 1982-89,partly
                                                                                                                      attributableto improved
                                                                                                                      services resultingfrom
                                                                                                                      transfer

                                 Cost US$1.1 billion r)       Cost US$1.3 billion C)                                  Slow diversification:
                                                                                                                      Only 10% of cultivatedarea
                                                                                                                      in high-valuecrops
(c) Decentralize funding and     Transfer 21 of 82 Districts  Transfer 72 of 82 Districts All projects have at least  Ten out of 11 Districtshave
management                       under ComNaAguacontrol       under ComNaAguacontrol       12% ERR with the mean      ERR above 12%with the
(d) Make water and energy        to Water User                to Water User               over 14%                    mean at 31%
use more efficient               Organizations                Organizations
(e) Strengthen institutions,inc. (2.0 m. ha)                  (3.3 m. ha);transfer covers Efficient use of water and  Efficient use of water and
ComNaAgua and water user                                      96% of the 3.4 m. ha of     energy on 380,000 ha        energy on 702,000 ha
organizations                                                 publiclyirrigated land
(f) Optimize land and water                                                               Full O&M cost recovery      Substantial O&M cost
use by ensuring that only                                     431 Water User              in 21 Districts             recovery in 72 Districts
viable projects are financed                                  Organizationshave taken                                 User share of O&M up from
                                                              over O&M and have                                       20% to 90% (but only 70-
                                                              hireifire authoritywithout                              80% of funds needed for
                                                              recourseto CNA                                          optimal O&M have been
                                                                                                                      collected in recentdrought
                                                                                                                      years)
                                                              Cost US$208.7 m. (**)
                                 Cost US$112.0 m.(**)                                                                 O&M costs reducedby 30-
                                                                                                                      40% underWater User
                                                                                                                      Organization management

                                                                                                                      Water User Organizations
                                                                                                                      finance most of the main
                                                                                                                      canal 0&M and land-
                                                                                                                      leveling carried out by
                                                                                                                      ComNaAgua

                                                                                                                      50150 cost sharing scheme
                                                                                                                      introducedfor
                                                                                                                      rehablmodernization

                                                                                                                      Volumetricmeasurement
                                                                                                                      started but not all problems
                                                                                                                      resolved

                                                                                                                      National Water Law passed
                                                                                                                      (1994) allowingsale of water
                                                                                                                      use rights
(g) Prevent environmental        Reuse sewagewaters over      Reusesewagewaters                                       Routine control of water
degradation                      3,000 ha                     over 3,900 ha                                           quality, pesticide levels,
                                                                                                                      drainage and soil salinity
                                 Cost US$44.0 m. y )          Cost US$9.4 m y )                                       performed in many Districts
                                                                                                                      Silting of reservoirsand
                                                                                                                      canals and over-~umoincrof
                                                                                                                      groundwater stilla problem
(*) Covers components (a) construction of irrigation districts, (b) construction of small irrigation units, (c) rehabilitation
of irrigation districts, (d) rehabilitation of small irrigation units, (e) deferred maintenance and (f) O&M equipment
(**) Covers components (a) institutional development, (b) small river training works, (c) d a m safety and (d) rain-fed
areas

                                                                                                                            Annex 1


(***) Covers colnponents (a) environmental actions and (b) reuse of sewage waters.Annex 2. Results
Matrix-On-Farm             and Minor Irrigation Networks Project (L3704)


Objectives                                          Outputs                                                Outcomes
                                     Expected                     Actual                    Expected                      Actual
(a) Reduce the loss and                                                             Water conveyance            Water conveyance
waste of irrigation water   Components,                 Components,                 efficiency, 84%             efficiency, 87%

                            (a) Technical support,      (a) Technical support,     Water application            Water application
                            communications and          communications and          efficiency, 69%             efficiency, 69%
                            training,                   training,
                            US$37.4 m.                  US$21.2 m.                  Increased availability of   Increased availability of
                                                                                   water for irrigation,        water for irrigation,
                                                        Physical targets           667 m. cubic metres          425 m. cubic metres
                                                        mainly exceeded




(b) lncrease cropping       (b) Minor network           (b) Minor network           Cropping intensity, 19%     Cropping intensity, 21%
intensities and yields      improvements                improvements,
                            US$225.3 m.                 US$177.2 m.                Yields, tiha                 Yields, tiha
                                                                                    Maize, 5.0                  Maize, 8.9
                                                        Several physical           Wheat, 5.1                   Wheat, 6.5
                                                        targets not m e t          Tomato, 21.0                 Tomato, 52.3
                                                                                   Chile, 18.1                  Chile, 29.7
                            (c) On-farm                 (c) On-farm                Melon. 24.0                  Melon, 25.1
                            improvements,               improvements,
(c) lncrease                US$238.9 m.                 US$198.3 m.                Revenues, (US$'OOO)          Revenues, (US$'000)
diversification into higher                                                        Maize, 120                   Maize, 124
value crops                 Benefit 178,000 ha          Benefited 225,691 ha       Wheat, 132                   Wheat, 69
                                                        and 27,121 producers       Tomato, 132                  Tomato, 22
                                                                                   Chile, 42                    Chile, 69
                            Lining of irrigation        Lining of irrigation       Melon, 29                    Melon, 1
                            ditches,                    ditches,
                            6,000 km                    0 km                       Useis annual income,         Useis annual income,
                            Land grading, 120,000       Land grading, 42,373 ha    US$22,700                    US$20,560
                            ha                          Drip irrigation, 72,496 ha
                            Drip irrigation, 15,750 ha  Micro-sprinkler, 20,732    ERR, 19%                     ERR (partial),
                            Micro-sprinkler, 5,500 ha   ha                                                      11% to 19%
                            Pump electrification, 250   Pump electrification, 0
                            Underground drainage,       Underground drainage,
(d) Promote                 200 ha                      12.840 ha                                               Water User Associations
decentralization                                                                                                strengthened, e.g.
(Consolidate transfer of    Total cost,                 Total cost,                                             machinery procurement
lrrigation Districts and    US$568.8 m.                 US9396.7 m.                                             decentralized, greater
Irrigation Units to Water                                                                                       transparency in
User Associations)                                                                                              accounting




(e) Promote private                                                                                             Investmentsaid to be up
investment                                                                                                      but no data in ICR

                                                                    31                                                     Annex 2


Annex 2. Results Matrix-On-Farm and Minor Irrigation
Networks Project (L3704)


Objectives                                          Outputs                                               Outcomes
                                     Expected                     Actual                   Expected                      Actual
(a) Reduce the loss and                                                            Water conveyance            Water conveyance
waste of irrigation water   Components,                 Components,                efficiency, 84%             efficiency, 87%

                            (a) Technical support,      (a) Technical support,     Water application           Water application
                            communications and          communications and         efficiency, 69%             efficiency, 69%
                            training,                   training,
                            US$37.4m.                   US$21.2 m.                 Increased availability of   Increased availability of
                                                                                   water for irrigation,       water for irrigation,
                                                        Physical targets           667 m. cubic metres         425 m. cubic metres
                                                        mainly exceeded




(b) Increase cropping       (b) Minor network           (b) Minor network          Cropping intensity, 19%     Cropping intensity, 21%
~ntensitiesand yields       improvements                improvements,
                            US$225.3 m.                 US$177.2 m.                Yields, ffha                Yields, ffha
                                                                                   Maize, 5.0                  Maize, 8.9
                                                        Several physical           Wheat, 5.1                  Wheat, 6.5
                                                        targets not met            Tomato, 21.0                Tomato, 52.3
                                                                                   Chile, 18.1                 Chile, 29.7
                            (c) On-farm                 (c) On-farm                Melon, 24.0                 Melon, 25.1
                            improvements,               ~mprovements,
(c) Increase                US$238.9 m.                 US$198.3 m.                Revenues, (US$'000)         Revenues, (US$'000)
diversification into higher                                                        Maize, 120                  Maize, 124
value croDs                 Benefit 178,000ha           Benefited 225,691 ha       Wheat, 132                  Wheat, 69
                                                        and 27,121 producers       Tomato, 132                 Tomato, 22
                                                                                   Chile, 42                   Chile, 69
                            Lining of irrigation        Lining of irrigation       Melon, 29                   Melon, 1
                            ditches,                    ditches,
                            6,000 km                    0 km                       User's annual income,       User's annual income,
                            Land grading, 120,000       Land grading, 42,373 ha    US$22,700                   US$20,560
                            ha                          Drip irrigation, 72,496 ha
                            Drip irrigation, 15,750 ha  Micro-sprinkler, 20,732    ERR, 19%                    ERR (partial),
                            Micro-sprinkler, 5,500 ha   ha                                                     11% to 19%
                            Pump electrification, 250   Pump electrification, 0
                            Underground drainage,       Underground drainage,
(d) Promote                 200 ha                      12,840 ha                                              Water User Associations
decentralization                                                                                               strengthened, e.g.
(Consolidate transfer of    Total cost,                 Total cost,                                            machinery procurement
Irrigation Districts and    USS568.8 m.                 US$396.7 m.                                            decentralized, greater
Irrigation Units to Water                                                                                      transparency in
User Associations)                                                                                             accounting




(e) Promote private                                                                                            Investment said to be up
investment                                                                                                     but no data in ICR


                                                                                                                       Annex 3


Annex 3. Results Matrix-Agricultural Productivity
Improvement Project (L4428)

ob@!eS-                                                  Outputs                                                    Outcomes                         -
                                          Expected-                      Actual                    Expected                           Actual
(a) Improve access of small    Productive Investment           Product~veInvestment     Average beneflc~ary             Average benef~claryhousehold
farmers to programs being      Cost, US$343 3 m                Cost, US$377 5 m         househoid lncome increases      income increases by 60%
executed under the Al~anza                                                              by 25% by project completion
para el Campo                  Subprojects, financed on a
                               matching grant basis*, for
(b) Improve integration of                                                              Economic rate of return,        Economic rate of return
various Alianza activities     Small irrigation development    Small irrigation         18.5%                           15.5%
aimed at developing irrigated  33,000 beneficiaries            development              (Mean of 28 farm models)
and rainfed agriculture        >300,000 ha                     28,815 beneficiaries,
                                                               198,000ha
                                                               US$86.9 m.
                               Pasture establishment
                               110,000beneficiaries            Pasture establishment
                               > 2 m. ha                       106,417 beneficiaries,
                                                               4.1 m. ha
                                                               US$61.2 m.
                               lmproved dairying
                               51,000 beneficiaries            lmproved dairying
                               > 10,000 production units       60,467 beneficiaries,
                                                               50,000 production units
                                                               USS45.6 m.
                               Small-scale on-farm
                               infrastructure and equipment    Small-scale on-farm
                               750,000 poor rural              infrastructure and
                               households                      equipment
                               (PADER program)                 763,000 beneficiaries
                               US$2,200/household              US$183.8 m.
                                                               <US$25O/household

(c) Generate, test and         Production Support Services     Production Support       Productivity increases of 25%   Productivity increase of 20%
transfer technologies          Cost, US$172.9 m.               Services                 in target farming systems
appropriate for small farmers                                  Cost, US$172.5 m.
                               Applied research
(d) Strengthen production      >50% research projects          Not measured
support services for small     address beneficiary needs
farmers
                               Extension
                               350,000 beneficiaries,          540,000 beneficiaries
                               (SINDER)                        (SINDER)

                               Training for small farmers
                               1.2 m. beneficiaries,           197,000beneficiaries
                               (PEAT)                          (PEAT)



(e) Promote decentralization   Institutional Strengthening     Institutional            Evaluation of outcomes and      FA0 monitoring effort covers
by strengthening institutions  Cost, US$34.9 m.                Strengthening            impact as well as physical      Alianza as a whole; hard to
in the states and producers'                                   Cost, US$O               and financial indicators        assess impact on project target
organizations                  Includes                                                                                 group; data from states of
                                                               No funds disbursed from                                  variable quality
                               Training and technical          Bank loan
                               assistance for staff in                                                                  Regional offices of Ministry of
                               Ministry of Agricultural and                                                             Agriculture not equipped for M&E
                               at state level

                               Establishment of a
                               monitoring and evaluation
                              system
SINDER National Extension System PEAT Technical Assistance Program
* Beneficiary contribution was at least 50% (in cash or kind) for irrigation, pasture
and dairy programs and 30% for rural development (PADER)


                                                                                                                                      Annex 4




Annex 4. Productivity of Land and Water in Irrigation Units and Districts, 1980-2002


Year    Area     Area         Water          Water          Output value  Output value Output value  Output value $/ha  $/ha       $/m3   $/m3
        Units    Districts    volume units   volume         Units         Districts    Units         Districts    Units Districts  Units  Districts
        000ha    000ha        000 m3         Districts      000 Pesos     000 Pesos    000 Pesos     000 Pesos
                                             000 m3- (current)            (Current)    $1993       i%99!?!-   -        -    -- -- -- -- -
                                                                                                                                 --         -- - --
1980    1,657    3,241        12,073,223     29,509,285     56,331        68.891       \
                                                                                        1.735)623    14.352.294   6.798 4252       0.972  0 486
1981    1,676    3,457        11,829,614     30,503,348     77,061        92,443       12,231,944
1982    1,731    3,438        13,355,652     33,154,120     98,573        153,521      11,201,472
1983    1,524    3,321        10,753,159     29,304,348     195,351       298,361      11,628,058
1984    1,370    3,512        10,019,341     32,113,723     288,482       510,234      9,779,044
1985    1,725    3,593        13,975,259     36,389,336     560,390       798,352      11,797,683
1986    1,942    3,234        19,482,230     40,563,698     918,788       1,324,541    11,096,468
1987    2,202    3,252        20,594,354     38,018,767     2,570,627     3,535,991    13,565,314
1988    2,075    2,937        18,506,817     32,740,134     3,452,324     6,375,885    8,598,566
1989    2,019    3,213        16,637,730     33,096,521     6,152,439     9,467,867    11,521,421
1990    1,908    3,035        16,604,059     33,020,522     10,249,402    10,330,423   14,815,557
1991    2,137    2,995        19,156,886     33,568,670     14,122,671    13,173,385   16,634,477
1992    2,250    2,759        20,308,637     29,822,849     13,918,388    14,195,687   14,600,218
1993    2,025    3,004        19,225,788     33,772,972     16,217,200    15,757,300   16,220,444
1994    2,340    3,066        22,740,202     35,893,814     17,372,949    16,638,069   16,312,628
1995    2,163    2,798        19,183,352     29,844,280     21,442,864    19,905,313   16,758,784
1996    2,191    2,778        21,698,156     29,461,809     31,529,589    31,343,515   16,802,339
1997    2,202    2,963        22,537,201     33,385,057     39,244,404    35,312,977   18,359,955
1998    2,118    2,774        22,915,183     29,929,472     44,363,173    39,166,796   18,329,617
1999    2,101    2,631        22,963,930     25,794,390     52,755,232    35,401,692   20,867,542
2000    2,076    2,604        22,836,000     27,466,293     44,909,545    41,922,643   17,318,196
2001    2,050    2,698        22,345,000     24,807,031     50,638,639    39,566,529   18,844,776
2002    2,241    2,602        21,393,100     26,160,855     50,023,633    43,058,188   17,833,255
Source: Enrique Palacios, Colegio de Posgraduados (based on data from SAGARPA and CNA).


                                                                                     Annex 5


Annex 5. Additional Tables


Table A5.1 Rating of Survey Modules, 1999 and 2005

% (based on N of positive      Organizati   Operation  Maintenan Technical   Accounti MEAN
responses to 10 questions      on                      ce        Efficiency  ng &
in each category                                                             Finances

ALTO RIO LERMA
Module Salvatierra
1999                               70           70        90         55         80      73
2005                               53           75        80         60         78      69
Module Cortazar
1999                               95           70        80         30         90      73
2005                               50           94        84         59         65      70
RIO MAY0
Module 04
1999                               100          85        80         70         70      81
2005                               51           89        74         67         67      70
Module 13
1999                               100          80        85         90         80      87
2005                               67           78        84         69         85      77
COSTA DE HERMOSILLO
1999         -                     80           50        50         70         80      66
2005                               60           14        50         50         75      50
Source: 1999 data: Palacios; 2005 data: OED Survey.



Table A5.2 Rio Mayo: Has Irrigation Service Improved Since Transfer?

                       --                      Module 04                     Module 13
                                        1993             2005            1993         2005
N of users interviewed                   16               39               18          32
N replying "Yes"          -               0               20               15          21
% "Yes"                                  0%              51%              83%         66%

                                                                                                                              Annex 5


                        Table A5.3. Performance Rating of Irrigation Districts (by Module), 1999

                        N=230 (229 Modules plus DR051 Costa de Hermosillo)                                                     % of responses
                        Response categories were binary in each case ("Yes" and "No") unless othewise specified                that signify a
                                                                                                                              positive outcome-
--p--------...-....--p-                                                                                               ""me---

                        ORGANIZATION
                        (1) Are the directors of the Users' Committee familiar with the Water Law?
                        (2) Is the Water Law complied with?
                        (3) Have there been problems in electing directors to the Users' Committee? (Positive response="No')
                        (4) Do private owners and land reform farmers alternately head the Committee?
                        (5) Are water rights transmitted according to the regulations?
                        (6) Is the Module registered in the Public Registry of Water Rights?
                        (7) Is the water tariff set according to the regulations?
                        (8) Do users fail to carry out their statutory obligations? (Positive response="No')
                        (9) Are supplementary tariffs authorized by a General Assembly vote?
                        (10) Are there training programs for the directors of the Users' Committee?
                        OPERATION
                        (11) Is the Register of Water Users up-to-date?
                        (12) Is implementation of the irrigation plan properly monitored?
                        (13) Does irrigation programming follow CNA guidelines?
                        (14) Do ditch tenders verify the area irrigated by users?
                        (15) Does the Module receive water at the established control points?
                        (16) How timely is the delivery of water to parcels? (Positive response="Goodq
                        (17) How adequate is the amount of water delivered? (Positive response="Good')
                        (18) How sound a consideration is given to water resource sustainability? (Positive response="Good')
                        (19) Does the Module operate water use planning targets?
                        (20) Does the Users' Association report the area sown and harvested to the CNA?
                        TECHNICAL EFFICIENCY & MODERNIZATION
                        (21) Does the Module deliver planning information to the Irrigation District?
                        (22) Is this information delivered systematically every month?
                        (23) Has the Module benefited from government development programs?
                        (24) Has land leveling been carried out?
                        (25) Have water meters and other measurement devices been installed?
                        (26) Has the efficiency of water application been studied?
                        (27) Has the cropping pattern change since the Module was handed over?
                        (28) Is the level of the water table regularly measured?
                        (29) Is soil quality analysis carried out?
                        (30) Have programs to improve soil quality been carried out?
                        MAINTENANCE
                        (31) Is the list of scheduled maintenance works updated every crop cycle?
                        (32) Is the machinery and equipment inventory checked every year?
                        (33) Is the canal layout in line with CNA guidelines?
                        (34) Are maintenance needs assessed before each crop cycle?
                        (35) Does the annual maintenance program follow CNA guidelines?
                        (36) Is the maintenance program reviewed and approved by CNA?
                        (37) The Water User Association participates in the district-wide planning of maintenance?
                        (38) Have there been projects to rehabilitate or modernize plant and equipment?
                        (39) In carrying out maintenance does the Association follow the approved program?
                        (40) In what state is the infrastructure of the Module? (Positive response="Good")
                        ACCOUNTING & FINANCE
                        (41)Are incomes and expenditure budgets prepared?
                        (42) Is budget reporting up-to-date?
                        (43)Are the budgets approved by the General Assembley?
                        (44) Is training in accounting principles provided?
                        (45) Are supplementary charges levied (in addition to the water tariff)?
                        (46) Is the water tariff revised each year?
                        (47) Is there a special fund for meeting unforeseen contingencies?
                        (48) Has the Association taken steps toward financial self-sufficiency?
                        (49) Is the Association up-to-date with its income tax returns?


                        Note: Items for which the positive response rate was under 50% are shown in bold italic font.
                        Source: Palacios (Colpos)

                                                                                                                                    Annex 6




Annex 6. Revised Economic Rate of Return (PSRD)


                                          REVISED                              REVISED                  REVISED
          ORIGINAL                         INFLOW                              OUTFLOW                  CASHFLOW
               Wlo       W Difference        Wlo          W Difference Less 25%    Wlo       W Difference
      Y1     10,677   9,034    -1,643       22,046    22,046                  -  11,369  13,012    1,643  -1,643
      Y2     9,349    8,111    -1,238       20.594    20,952      358       269  11,245  12,841    1,596  -1,328
      Y3      8020     7187      -833        19142    19857       715       536   11122  12670     1,548  -1,012
      Y4      6949     7263       314        17917    19950     2,033      1525   10969  12687     1,718   -193
      Y5      5877     7339     1,462        16692    20044      3,352     2514   10816  12705     1,889     625
      Y6      5431     7182     1,751        16692    20044      3,352     2514   10816  12705     1,889     625
      Y7      4987     7026    2,039         16692    20044      3,352     2514   10816  12705     1,889     625
      Y8      4544     6869    2,325         14343    20571      6,228     4671   10688  14015     3,327   1,344
      Y9      4099     6713    2,614         14343    20571      6,228     4671   10688  14015     3,327   1,344
     Y10      3656     6556    2,900         14343    20571      6,228     4671   10688  14015     3,327   1,344
     Y11      3651     6588    2,937         14343    20571      6,228     4671   10688  14015     3,327   1,344
     Y12      3646     6621    2,975         14343    20571      6,228     4671   10688  14015     3,327   1,344
     Y13      3642     6653     3,011        14533    21282      6,749     5062   10898  14547     3,649   1,413
     Y14      3638     6686     3,048        14533    21282      6,749     5062   10898  14547     3,649   1,413
     Y15      3634     6718     3,084        14533    21282      6,749     5062   10898  14547     3,649   1,413


               ICR      IRR      31%                                                      OED IRR           15%




Note-The     analysis covers 11 Irrigation Districts that were included in PSRD, representing those that absorbed the largest part of project
investment (46 percent); these Districts also accounted for 46 percent of the area transferred under PSRD. The analysis in the completion
report is based on five representative farm models. OED checked the price and yield assumptions and found them to be reasonable. The
revised cash flows retain all the original assumptions, adjusting only for the area actually harvested and the crop mix


                                                                                         Annex 7


Annex 7. Basic Data Sheet

IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN2700)


                                            Appraisal         Actual or          Actual as % of
                                            estimate       current estimate     appraisal estimate

IDA Loan                                     400.0              350.0                  88.0

Cofinancing                                  200.0              200.0                 100.0

Government                                   645.0              932.7                 145.0

Total project cost                           1245.0            1482.7                 119.0


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
                           FY92 FY93  FY94  FY95   FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99   FYOO
Appraisal est~mate         52.5 122.5 122.5 77.5    25.0    -
Actual                     39.9 96.3  33.9  404     21.4   13.2    13.1    54.0   37.8
Actual as % of estimate     76   79    27    52      86
Date of final disbursement




                                                   Original                       Actual


Board approval                                                               December 3, 1991

Effectiveness                                  November, 1991                  June 18.1992

Mid Term Review                                                                May 16, 1997




Staff Inputs (stnffweeks)
                                            Actual Weeks                   US$US$('OOO)
 IdentificationiPreparation                    149.9                           201.1
 AppraisalINegotiation                          57.6                           101.4
 Supervision                                   187.0                           637.2
 ICR                                            10.0                           25.0
 Total                                         404.5                           964.7

                                                                                                                 Annex 7




Mission Data

                          Date              h'o of
                                                                     Specializatio~zsrepresented
                     firzoilth/year)      persons
                                                                                                            on status  objectives

 Identification1    February 1988              1                             Agronomist
 Preparation

                      May 1988                 1                              Engineer

                       July 1988               1                              Engineer

                   November I988              2                         Engineer, Econom~st

                      June 1989                I                       Agricultural Economist

                       July 1989               1                         Irrigat~onEngineer

                   September 1989             6       Mission Leader, Agricultural Economist, 2 Irrigation
                                                      and Drainage Engineers, Agronomist, Institutionalist

                     October 1989             1                           Environmentalist

                    February 1990             5       Mission Leader, Agricultural Economist, Irrigation &
                                                         Drainage Engineer, Agronomist, Project Analyst

 Pre-appraisal                                           Mission Leader, Economists (3), Environmental
                      April 1990              11      Officer, Institutional Specialist, Lawyer, Agronomist
                                                            Consultant, Engineers (2), Project Analyst

                   December 1990              2                      Mission Leader, Engineer

 Appraisal/         February 1991             1 1      Mission Leader, Economists (3), Environmentalist,
 Negotiation                                               Institutional Specialist, Lawyer, Accountant,
                                                                           Engineers (3)

                      May 1991                3                       Engineer, Economists (2)

 Supervision 1        June 1991               1                           Environmentalist

 Supervision 2       January 1992             4          Mission Leader, Economist, Legal, Sr. Irrigation
                                                                              Engineer

 Supervision 3        April 1992              1                            Mission Leader

 Supervision 4      October 1992              2                      Mission Leader, Economist                 2           1

 Supervision 5     December 1992              1                            Mission Leader                      2           1

 Supervis~on6         Apnl 1993               1                            Miss~onLeader                       2           1

 Supervision 7      February 1994             3             Sr. Irrigation Engineer, Drainage Engineer,        2           1
                                                                       Procurement Assistant

 Supervision 8       August 1994              2                Irrigation Engineer, Financial Expert           S          HS

 Supervision 9     November 1994              2                Irrigation Engineer, Financical Expert          S          HS

 Supervision 10       June 1995               2                Irrigation Engineer, Financial Expert           S          HS

 Supervision 11       April 1996              3         Irrigation Engineer, Financial Expert, Operations      S          HS
                                                                              Officer

 Supervision 12    September 1996             3         Irrigation Engineer, Financial Expert, Operations      S         HS
                                                                              Officer

 Supervision 13       May 1997                3        Irrigation Engineer, Financial Expert, Agricultural     S          S
                                                                             Economist

 Supervision 14     January 1998              3              Irrigation Engineers (2), Financial Expert        S          S

 Supervision 15     October 1998              2                Irrigation Engineer, Financial Expert           S          S

 Supervision 16       June 1999               2                Irrigation Engineer, Financial Expert           S          S

 Supervisi6n 17    November 1999              2                Irrigation Engineer, Financial Expert           S          S

 Supervision 18       June 2000               2                Irrigation Engineer, Financial Expert           S          S

 ICR

                   November 2000              1                        Agricultural Economist                  S         HS
* Performance Rating: 1: Improving; 2: Stationary; S: Satisfactory; HS: Highly Satisfactory

                                                                                 Annex 7



ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3704

Key
 '                                                                                 ,*-.
  ~"4
    <, em.,..                                                                                 --,,,a

                                Appraisal       Actual or          Actual as % of
                                estimate     current estimate    appraisal estimate

IDA Loan                         200.0            170.2                         85.0

Government                        137.2           23.9                          17.0

Banking                          146.2

Farmers                           85.4            202.8                       237.0

Total Project Cost               568.8            396.9                         70.0




Board approval                                                  July 17, 1994

Effectiveness                                                September 20, 1994

Mid-Term Review                                                 June 11, 1997
                                                                  rch 31, 2002
                                                                  W'"~~.
                                                                      "m,,,--*-"         ~>-.,.~"-,a*




Staff Inputs (staflweeks)
                                Actual Weeks                 US$US$('OOO)
  IdentificationIPreparation
  AppraisalINegotiation
  Supervision
  ICR


                                 45                                        Annex 7




AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 4428)


                               Appraisal         Actual or         Actual as % of
                               estimate       current estimate    aaaraisal estimate

IDA Loan

Cofinancing

Government

Total ~roiectcost




                                      Original                      Actual

Appraisal                                                     September 11, 1998

Board approval                                                 December 22,1998

Effectiveness                      March 31, 1999                June 23, 1999

Mid-Term Review                    March 31, 2001

Closing date                       June 30,2003                  June 30,2003



Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
                               Actual Weeks                   US$US$f'OOO)
 IdentificationiPreparation
 AppraisaliNegotiation
 Supervision
 ICR

                                                                                                     Annex 7



Mission Data
                                                                                                                   *
                                                                                                 Perfor~nunceratzng
                                     Date
                                             No          Spec~al~zat~onsrepresented
                            (tnonth/>ear)   per~ons                                         Implementation Development
                                                                                                status      oblect~ves

 Identification1           October 1997
 Preparation


 Appraisal1              September 1998        5         Inst~tut~onalSpec~al~st,Ag
 Negotiation                                         Econom~st,Soc~alSc~entist,Ag
---           -                          -- -      -      "*.
                                                          Extenslon~st,Consultant              -                  --- -
      *"'*" *      *                                                               ,--.-
                     ',v-"ess-"----ea"""     a-   *     ~    "a- "*-'      *"vw-s-        -a      -*- <"-             z*

 Superv~s~on  1             March 1999         5    Sr Agrlculturahst, Soc~alSclent~st,           S              S
                                                      Ag Economist (2), Flnanclal
                                                                  Spec~altst

 Superv~slon2               March 1999         3    Sr Agncultural~st,M&E Spec~ahst,              S              S
                                                             Sr Ag Econoni~st

 Supervision 3                May 2001         3    Sr. Agriculturalist, Ag. Economist,           S              S
                                                             Operations Analyst

 Supervision 4          November 200 1         2      Sr. Agricultural~st,Consultant              S              S

 Supervision 5          November 2001          3    Ag. Economist, Sr. Agriculturalist,           S              S
                                                             Operations Analyst

 Supervision 6          November 2001          3      Sr. Agriculturalist, Operations             S              S
                                                         Analyst, ConsultantIRural
                                                          Development Specialist

 Supervision 7              March 2003         2      Sr. Agriculturalist, Operations             S              S
                                                                  Analyst

 ICR

                              May 2004         2         Sr. Agricultural Economist,
                                                                 Economist
* Performance Rating: S:Satisfactory

                                                                                              Annex 8


Annex 8. Borrower Comments

Unofficial Translation

[logo]                                                  Subdirectorate of General Programming
                                                        Financial Management Unit

                                                        Official Corr. No. B00.06.04.- 420

                                                        Subject:Conlments on the Preliminary
                                                        Assessment of Irrigation Projects

                                                        Mexico City, July 12, 2005


Mrs. Ethel Sennhauser
Sector Manager
Rural Development and the Environment
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Av. Insurgentes Sur 1605, Piso 24
Col. San Jose Insurgentes
03900 Mexico City

I am wrlting in reference to the evaluation of the Sectoral Irrigation and Drainage and On-farm and
Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Programs, which were partially financed by the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) through Loans 3419-ME and 3704-ME and, more
specifically, to your letter of June 4, 2005, requesting our comments on the preliminary version of the
report.

Further to the report and to the request from the IBRD, I am attaching the comments on the document
in question for transmission through you to Mr. Alain Barbu. They were prepared by the staff of the
Offices of the General Subdirectorates for Hydroagriculture and Programming.

I would be very grateful if you would send us a copy of your final report on the evaluation of the
aforementioned programs.

I look forward to hearing from you.

Regards
                                 REAL SUFFRAGE, NO RE-ELECTION
                                             THE MANAGER
                                                     Is/
                                 RAUL DESCHAMPS DIAZ, ENGINEER

Cc: Grayeb Bayata   -  Director of International Financial Organizations - SHCP, Palacio Nacional,
National Palace, Segundo Patio Co. Centro
Escobedo de la Peiia International Subdirector Nacional Financiera, Av. Insurgentes Sur 1971,
                      -                            -

Plaza Inn Torre IV
...dalupe Inn.
r. 0.Ramos Va1dks.-General SubDirector of Hydroagriculture.- CNA, Insurgentes, -1nsurgentes Sur
2416, Col.
Herrera Toledo.- General SubDirector of Programming.- CNA, Insurgentes Sur 2416, Col. Copilco El
Bajo
--andon Pimental.-Irrigation Districts and Units.- CNA, Insurgentes Sur 2416, Col Coplico El Bajo.
. . .aMedia Laguna  -  SubManager for Financial Management.-CNA, Insurgentes Sur 2416, Col.
Coplico El Bajo.

                                                                                                      Annex 8




                              National W7aterCommission
                       Subdirectorate of General Programming
                                    Financial Control




With reference to the evaluation of the Sectoral Irrigation and Drainage and On-farm and Minor
Irrigation Networks Improvement Programs, which were partially financed by the International Bank for
Reconshuction and Development (IBRD) through Loans 3419-ME and 3704-ME and, more specifically,
to your letter of June 4, 2005. requesting our comments on the preliminary version of the report,

our comments are as follows:


  Reference                         Text                                           Observation
  1.1           Two of the projects aimed to improve the        What is meant by improve the administration
                administration of irrigated areas.              of irrigated areas?
  1.1           The irrigation projects were intended to        We suggest you mention the initial number of
                consolidate the process of transferring         Irrigation Districts that were going to be
                responsibility for operating and                transferred and how many Irrigation Districts
                maintaining the public irrigation districts     were actually transferred by the time the
                from a central government agency to             PSRD was closed.
                associations of water users.
  Table 1       By water logging                                Registro del agua [translator's note: the
                                                                suggested Spanish translation is incorrect.
                                                                They seem to be misconstruing the meaning
                                                                of "logging", taking it to mean the act of
                                                                "registering", as in "entering in a record or

                que generalmente cobren..                       Que generalmente czlbren.. . [Correct form of
                                                                Spanish verb]
                The government continues to heavily             We suggest the text mention the requirements
                subsidize the electricity used for              that users must meet, from registration of the
                pumping. This pushes up net inconles in         well to the tariff payable.
                the Units relative to the Districts; and it
                also encourages the over exploitation of
                aquifers.
                headworks                                       Should be translated in the Spanish as "obras
                                                                de cabeza"
                transfer of Irrigation Districts, including     [translator's note: Borrowers comments
                preparation of the necessary regulations;      /unclear-please verify]
                supply of the operation and maintenance
                equipment needed by water user
                associations
                users associations                             /water users associations
                Given that the agency's budget is not        I  We suggest this text be deleted.
                dependent on the loan there is little
                incentive for the agency to comply with
                Bank procurement and auditing
                procedures-and     long delays between
                the presentation of expense statements to
                the Bank for reimbursement. Slow
                disbursement led to three extensions of
                loan closing.
                Also, project implementation was                U7esuggest the text be modified, with
                partially impeded by Mexico's financial         mention made of the vroblem of the banking

                                                      49                                          Annex 8


             crisis of 1994-95 and several years of         crisis of 1994-1995 and the drought that
             severe drought which reduced the               occurred in seven states of the Mexican
             availability of water to users, particularly   Republic.
             in north-west Mexico.
3.12         Once again, the emphasis was on                Once again, the emphasis was on improving
             improving existing schemes rather than         existing schemes rather than expansion of the
             further expansion of the irrigated area.       irrigated area. [Translator's note: the
                                                            suggested change in the Spanish could
                                                            suggest that they wish to have the mention of
                                                            "further" removed.]
3.13        /At the same time, the loan amount was          We suggest modifying the text to say how
             reduced by US$30 million to                    much the original loan amount was and how
             accommodate fiscal tightening by the           much it was reduced to. We suggest deleting
             government                                     "to accommodate fiscal tightening by the
                                                            government", unless you have the grounds on
                                                            which to base your assertion.
3.18         The projects spurred the introduction of       We suggest giving the names of the engineers
             subsurface drainage (which, before 1990,       that opposed subsurface drainage, and of the
             many Mexican engineers had dismissed           person who proposed using light-weight
             as Inappropriate for Mexlco) and               equipment for maintaining the secondary
             promoted the use of light-weight               network. Do you have the figures to back
             equipment for canal dredging. Both             your assertion about lower costs?
             innovations helped to reduce investment
             and maintenance costs.
             Cost containment was also favored by           We suggest you mention the origin of the idea
             allowing the water user associations to        of federalization with respect to the Alianza
             take the lead in the tendering of works        para el Campo Program. The idea of the
             contracts: this had initially been resisted    federal government contributing $1 for every
             by the Commission (which preferred to          $1 contributed by the users.
             do the tendering itself) but the Bank
             strongly advocated the decentralized
             approach and eventually the Commission
             came round.
3.18         In the view of one expert observer, "the       We suggest you name the expert, as well as
             machinery operators hired by the water         the reference.
             user associations are much more
             productive than the government staff that
             operated the machinery before farmers
             undertook the management of these
           / systems".
3.27       / One issue is whether tariffs are high         /We suggest this be recast as follows: whether
           / enough to cover costs; the other is          1 the tariff collected from users is sufficient to
           / whether they are actually collected.          1cover the operating, maintenance, and
           1                                               /administrative costs of the Module and the
                                                            Irrigation District."
3.38         a law was passed permitting the sale of        We suggest specifying the name of the law
             water rights                                   and the corresponding articles, if not, delete.
Annex 1      New law passed allowing sale of water          We suggest you delete this paragraph
Results      use rights
Matrix

                                                                                                    Annex 8



                     NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION
       GENERAL IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE SUBDIVISION
  IRRIGATION DISTRICT AND UNIT MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY

ASSESSMENT REPORT ON THE RESULTS OF THREE PROJECTS IN MEXICO:
IRRIGATION AND SEWAGE PROJECT (LOAN 2700);
ON-FARM AND MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN
3704);
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 4428)




                                                COMMENTS



One's attention is drawn to the fact that the Operations and Evaluation Department (OED)
communique refers to the Irrigation and Sewage Project (Loan 2700) and proceeds instead to assess
the Immigration and Sector Drainage Project (Loan 3419). Likewise, the name of the On-Farm
Improvement Project was changed in the same communique, (Loan 3704).



The correct name for PRODEP, which is Programa de Desarollo Parcelario (On-Farm and Minor
Irrigation Networks Improvement Project), should be included among the abbreviations and acronyms.



Paragraph 1.1reads: The irrigation projects were intended to consolidate the process of transferring.



This is not accurate, in that, there was support for the transfer under the PRSD and there was support
for its consolidation under PRODEP, which is borne out in Table 1, in the Assessment Report.



There are several inaccuracies in paragraph 3.2. For example, it refers to the Units as smaller private
schemes, which is not accurate, as the two irrigation units evaluated, El Cubo and La Golondrina, are
public. Concessions for their operation were awarded to organized users for them to provide irrigation
services to their members.



Again in paragraph 3.2, an attempt is made to explain the difference between districts and units in
terms of size. saying that the districts are larger than the units, which is false. The irrigation unit
evaluated, El Cubo (2029 ha) have (sic) a larger surface area than irrigation districts 028, in
Tulancingo (753 ha), and 068, in Tepecuacuilco (1991 ha).




There are two differences between irrigation districts and units:

                                                      5 1                                         Annex 8


          For strategic and security reasons, the National Water Commission is responsible for part of
          the infrastructure of irrigation districts while the users organizations are in charge of the entire
          infrastructure in the irrigation units.



          In the irrigation districts, the National Water Commission (CNA) collects the charge for block
          water supply to users associations, that is to say, of the charge paid by the users for the
          irrigation service, a portion goes to the users association, and another to the CNA. This, in
          accordance with Article 105 of the Regulations under the National Water Law. In the
          irrigation units, the CNA does not collect a charge, since the users association is responsible
          for the entire infrastructure.



Further in paragraph 3.2 it reads: "The Units take a larger share of their water from aquifers", but there
is no basis for this. It then goes on to say that: "Aquifers provide water on demand which is a
prerequisite for producing high-margin fruit and vegetable crops." This means that, because of gravity,
no fruit and vegetable cultivation was pursued in the irrigation districts, an assertion refuted by the
statistics published by the Irrigation Districts and Units Management Unit ,which show that in the
2002-2003 agricultural year, 14,106ha and 35,533 ha of fruit and vegetable crops were harvested in
irrigation districts 010, in Culiacan-Humaya and 075, in Rio Fuerte, Sinaloa, respectively.



Paragraph 3.3 is not accurate either in saying: "This means that responsibility for operating and
maintaining the secondary and tertiary canal network (but not the main canal and headworks) is
transferred from a federal government agency (Comision Nacional del Agua) to a number of user
groups in the Districts."



The Irrigation Districts and Units Management Unit notes with surprise that the report says that user
organizations were not the ones responsible for operating and maintaining the main canals, whereas the
report says that the OED visited irrigation districts 011, in Alto Rio Lerma, Gto., and 038, in Rio
Mayo, Son., where the main canals are under the responsibility of Sociedades de Responsabilidad
Limitada (SRLs)-Limited Liability Companies.



We would like to make it clear to the OED in this connection that the transfer of the irrigation districts
took place in two phases. In the first, concessions were awarded for the minor infrastructure
(secondary and tertiary canal, road, and drainage networks) to users organized into civic associations
for them to deliver the water to their members.



In the second phase, the civic users organizations formed SRLs. The CNA awarded concessions to the
SRLs for the major infrastructure, (canals, drains, and main roads) so they could deliver the water to
their partners, which are the civic users associations.



In paragraph 3.10 we read: "A Hydraulic Committee is also created which represents all the Modules
(Associations) in a District and is the key interlocutor between the District and the Comision Nacional
del Agua." The Management Unit proposes that the paragraph align itself with the provisions of
Article 66 of the National Water Law:

                                                                                                Annex 8


          A hydraulic committee shall be established in each irrigation district. The terms of its
          organization and operation shall be stipulated in the relevant regulations drafted by each
          district, and it shall function as a deliberative body building consensus for proper water and
          infrastructure management.



Provision is made in the irrigation district regulations for the Hydraulic Committee to be chaired by the
Chief Engineer, who is a CNA staff member, and a representative of each civic users association and
SRL.



Paragraph 3.11 says: "Given that the agency's budget is not dependent on the loan there is little
incentive for the agency to comply with Bank procurement and auditing procedures-and          long delays
between the presentation of expense statements to the Bank for reimbursement. Slow disbursement led
to three extensions of loan closing. Also, project implementation was partially impeded by Mexico's
financial crisis of 1994-95 and several years of severe drought which reduced the availability of water
to users; particularly in north-west Mexico."



These two paragraphs are not correct at all. The Irrigation District and Unit Management Unit would
like to point out the following:



          It is true that the budget of the National Water Commission is not dependent on the loan,
          since the Federal Public Administration Budgetary Rules Manual published by the Ministry of
         Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), stipulates in Article 98 that: "The units shall be
         responsible for allocating sufficient budgetary resources for implementing externally financed
         programs and projects, in accordance with the implementation program agreed upon with the
         source of financing. The amount of the external loan shall be part of the budget ceiling
         approved for such programs and projects, as a result of which all the expenditure to be
         undertaken shall include the part financed with the foreign loan as the national counterpart."



         Regardless of whether there are incentives at CNA to work with externally financed
         resources, the General Irrigation Infrastructure Subdivision has always complied in a timely
         manner with the procurement and auditing procedures of the Bank. By the same token, CNA
         submitted the expense statements promptly to the Bank for reimbursement.



         In summary, the point can be made that the delay in the disbursement of the loan was due to
         the fact that in the budget ceiling authorized by the SHCP to the CNA, it was not possible to
         allocate sufficient resources for the PSRD to effect the disbursements, in accordance with the
         established program.



         The Irrigation District and Unit Management Unit queries whether the drought had any
         influence on disbursements because every year the users had a larger counterpart than the
         resources allocated by the CNA because of a lack of budget availability.



In paragraph 3.12, the Spanish used is not appropriate. We propose the following changes:

                                                        53                                            Annex 8


          El proyecto tenia como proposito apoyar el revistimento y entubamiento de 10s canales, la
          nivelacion de tierra, la sustitucion del riego por gravedad por el riego en alta y baja presion, la
          electrificacion de equipos de bonibeo y la instalacion de drenaje parcelari~.~



Paragraph 3.13 says that operation of PRODEP was also lengthy for the reasons mentioned in
paragraph 3.11. The Management Unit reiterates the arguments in 3.11 regarding the causes for the
d~sbursementof resources from external loans.



Paragraph 3.14 reads: "...data from the Units is patchy (none are cited in the completion reports),
partly it seems because there is not a clear division of labor between the National Water Comniission
and the Agriculture Ministry when it comes to monitoring, and planning for the Units." This is an
incorrect assessment since the planning, implementation, and evaluation of the rehabilitation and
modernization works in the irrigation units is a challenge for the federal government because the units
are scattered. The dearth of information in the irrigation units is due to the fact that the Mexican
Government does not have a body with the human, material, and economic resources to service them,
and not due to a lack of coordination between CNA and SAGARPA. The Management Unit also has
its doubts as to whether the sample is sufficiently representative (irrigation districts 011,Alto Rio
Lerma, Gto., and 038, Rio Mayo, Son.) for inferences concerning the 86 irrigation districts to be
drawn.



The Irrigation District and Unit Management Unit is concerned over the contents of paragraph 3.17
where it says "The Comision Nacional del Agua introduced a matching grant scheme for rehabilitation
and modernization works with users bearing 50 percent of the investment cost", because they are
inaccurate. When the CNA proposed awarding concessions for the rehabilitated infrastructure of the
irrigation districts to the users organizations to provide irrigation services to their users, the users made
two requests: that the CNA give them the concession for the rehabilitated infrastructure and that the
irrigation service charge be increased gradually until it is self-sustaining. In the negotiations, the users
organizations agreed with CNA that they would take the infrastructure in the state it was in and that
CNA would be responsible for 100percent of the investment in the rehabilitation and modernization of
the infrastructure under concession.



In the initial stages of the transfer of the irrigation districts, the entire CNA budget was earmarked for
rehabilitation and modernization of the infrastructure under concession. The transfer program
advanced apace, as a result of which approximately 2.75 million hectares were transferred in the first
five years, but not only did the CNA budget earmarked for the rehabilitation and modernization of the
infrastructure under concession not grow, but it contracted in 1995, such that there was a drastic
reduction in the budget earmarked for rehabilitation and modernization per hectare under concession.
This contraction gave rise to fresh negotiations with users organizations, in 1996 under the umbrella of
the National Association of Irrigation Users, who proposed that investments in rehabilitation and
modernization of the transferred infrastructure be done on a peso-for-peso basis, in exchange for an
increase in the CNA budget for this heading. The proposal was accepted [and implemented] as of
1997.



It should be made clear in paragraph 3.18, that the use of the light equipment is for the maintenance of
canals and drains and not "for canal dredging".



* Translator's note. The changesmade in the Spanishhere are not reflected in the updated English version of the
Report.

                                                                                                   Annex 8


The Spanish used in paragraph 3.19 is, again, inappropriate. Perhaps the OED meant to say "la
eficiencia de corzduccidrz y nplicacidn del agua" [translator's note: the Borrower is proposing the
words in italics to render the English more accurately].



Paragraph 3.20 deserves a closer look because it says that the "...OED found in 2005 that, in the (few)
areas that it surveyed in Guanajuato and Sonora, technical upgrade was not as great as the completion
reports indicated. Only a minority of the water users that were interviewed reported receiving a subsidy
explicitly for inigation investment and an even smaller proportion had upgraded to pressurized
inigation (Table 2). However, most of the upgrade took place after the startup of the two projects
assessed, suggesting they may have contributed. Access to groundwater sources favors the introduction
of pressurized irrigation, helping to explain why Costa de Hermosillo-which         is entirely geared to
groundwater-showed        the highest incidence of investment."



There is an apparent discrepancy between the implementation reports and the OED-a            difference due
perhaps to the representativeness of the sample taken by the OED, as we have already remarked in
reference to paragraph 3.14.



The statement that only a minority of the water users interviewed reported receiving a subsidy
explicitly for irrigation investment, except irrigation district 051, in Costa de Hermosillo, is explained
by the fact that in the initial stages of the transfer all the investment went to the primary and secondary
networks. Subsequently, with the start-up of PRODEP, an investment was made in interfarm and on-
farm irrigation, while in all the pump-irrigation districts, such as 051, in Costa de Hermosillo,
investment was made from the outset in on-farm irrigation, since there are no networks of shared
canals. Besides, all the wells are privately owned.



The last part of paragraph 3.23 reads: "The staffing target for the Districts-based      on projections in the
early 1990s about the number of staff needed following transfer (around 2,000)-had          been achieved by
1 9 9 8 . ~But between then and now numbers have risen by 37 percent, suggesting that the Comision
           ~
initially overestimated the scope for reducing staff following District transfer."



The Irrigation District and Unit Management Unit finds this statement rash and disconcerting because
in June 2004 there were 3008 workers on the general payroll and 263 middle managers. In all there
were 3271 workers, which means that if it is true that in 1998 there were 2000 workers, then there was
a 64 percent increase in the staff payroll. Regardless of whether the OED can verify with Personnel
Management the roster of workers in the 86 irrigation districts on different dates, what the report does
not say is that in June 2004 there was a surplus of 1014 workers on the roster who were not assigned
any work because the work was being performed by the irrigation users organizations, while 39 middle
managers were needed because of the federal government's voluntary retirement program.



One of the lessons learned from the transfer, by the Irrigation District and Unit Management Unit ,is
that an early retirement program should have put in place for the staff that was made redundant.




10. See Table 6 in S.H. Johnson, Irrigation Management Transfer in Mexico, Research Report No. 16,
International Irrigation Management Institute, 1997.

                                                                                                  Annex 8


The Irrigation District and Unit Management Unit is concerned by the proposal of the OED in
paragraph 3.25 to establish a contingency fund to receive the surplus funds collected during years of
abundant water availability. This, because according to the statistics on water inflows to storage dams,
there are more years with inflows below the arithmetic mean than years when inflows are equal or
heavier and this proposal from the OED implies that in years of abundant water availability, more
water is extracted than not only the mathematical models for optimization of dam operation, but also
common sense, u~oulddictate. There is a proposal from the Irrigation District and Unit Management
Unit to readjust the size of the irrigation districts based on the sustainable extraction of water from the
dams, cropping patterns, climate, and the overall efficiency of water use, in order to achieve more
stability in irrigation coverage every year.



Paragraph 3.26 refers to the irrigation service charge, saying that the charges quadrupled as a result of
the transfer, making it possible to cover 90 percent of the operating and maintenance costs, which is
accurate.



The same paragraph ends with the following statement, however: "Since transfer, although most
associations have continued to raise their tariffs in nominal terms, the increase has not keep up with
inflation leading. in most cases, to a deferment of maintenance." This is accurate, but the Irrigation
District and Unit Management Unit does wish to make the following remark:



          As said in reference to paragraph 3.2, the civic users associations are the ones responsible for
          collecting the charges for irrigation services, which should be enough to cover the cost of
          managing, operating, and maintaining the irrigation districts. A portion of the charge is paid
          over to CNA by the civic users association as payment for the management, operation, and
          maintenance of the infrastructure under its responsibility. Now, it is common knowledge that
          most of the collection takes place in the months of October, November, and December, and
          therefore, for lack of time, it is not possible to invest the money in maintenance because the
          fiscal year ends on December 31. Furthermore, for budgetary reasons, the money budgeted is
          always less than the money collected. As a result of these two factors the resources
          implemented are less than what is collected, which is a disincentive to increasing the charge
          for block water supply, which means the maintenance of the facilities for which the CNA is
          responsible is not always the best.



The second past of paragraph 3.29 reads: "When the irrigation projects assessed here were being
designed one of the stated objectives (Table 1)was to promote crop diversification. So far this has not
happened to any significant degree. This is a function not only of distortions in the incentive regime; it
reflects the high risks associated with diversification, the limited development of contract farming and
export niches and the relative ~nflexibilityof the water supply in the Districts: most of the water is
from surface sources and does not lend itself to the on-demand irrigation required by many fruit and
vegetable crops."



The OED persists in saying in this paragraph, as it does in 3.2,that it is not possible to increase the
area under high-margin fruit and vegetable cultivation in the irrigation districts because the water
comes from surface sources. This statement is not accurate, as in its comments on paragraph 3.2, the
Management Unit mentioned that in Irrigation District 075, Rio Fuerte, Sinaloa, 35,553 ha of fruits
and vegetables were harvested in the 2002-2003 agricultural year.

                                                                                                   Annex 8


In the same district, in the same agricultural year, they harvested 91,138 ha of corn, with an average
yield of 9.9 tonsha. Converting part of this area under corn cultivation to high-value crops, such as
potatoes, pumpkin, chilies, tomatoes, and fruits, will not be possible unless the issue of farm credit and
marketing is resolved. This, because it costs 10 ten times more to produce fruit and vegetable crops
because the price is very sensitive to supply and the fruit and vegetable farmers have very well defined
marketing channels.



Another of the lessons learned by the Irrigation District and Unit Management Unit from the
implementation of the PRSD and PRODEP, is that investment in modernizing irrigation infrastructure
and technology, as well as improving the operation and maintenance of the irrigation districts are
necessary but, alone, are not enough to restructure production.



There is renewed emphasis in paragraph 3.30 on the fact that the districts are public and the units,
private, which echoed a previous assertion in 3.2.This paragraph says that output, measured in pesos
per hectare, is higher in the irrigation units than in the districts. The Irrigation District and Unit
Management Unit questions the sources of information on the irrigation units, since, as mentioned in
paragraphs 3.14 and 3.36 on the Units, the data is patchy and, generally speaking, the information is
less systematic than the information on the Districts.



We read in paragraph 3.41 that: "In the case of groundwater, [translator's note: insertion of (sic) in
Spanish indicates Borrower's dissatisfaction with agun n% szdelo as a translation of groundwater]
decentralization has not been accompanied by the development of a regulatory framework for
controlling the rate of extraction." This is inaccurate, because the regulatory framework does exist in
the National Water Law.



Following are some of the articles of the National Water Law dealing with the regulatory framework
for controlling the extraction of groundwater (or water from the subsoil).



Article 29.- The concession holders shall have the following obligations, in addition to those set forth
in this Title:



         XI. To not exploit, use, take advantage of, or discharge volumes greater than those authorized
         in the concession titles;



Article 29 Bis 4. The concession, allocation, or pennit to discharge, as well as the applicable
provisional permit, may be revoked in the following cases:



         I.        If the beneficiary uses more than a fifth of the volume of water authorized and is
                   subject to a prior suspension of this right for the same reason;



Article 119. "The Water Authority" shall apply penalties in accordance with the provisions of this Law
for the following breaches:

                                                                                                 Annex 8


          111.     Exploiting, using, or taking advantage of national waters over and above the volun~e
                   authorized in the respective titles or in the records entered in the Public Registry of
                   Water Rights;



It is the view of the Irrigation District and Unit Management Unit that above and beyond a mere
regulatory framework, what is required is the enforcement of the National Water Law, although the
problem will persist in the aquifers exploited by too many concession holders.

