Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24603
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37040; SCL-3704A; SCPD-3704S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$170 MILLION
TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
MEXICO
FOR AN
ON-FARM & MINOR IRRIGATION NETWORKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECr
12/12/2002
Environmentally and SociaLly Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia - Mexico - Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 18, 2002)
Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (Mex$)
Mex$1 = US$ 0.11
US$ 1 = Mex$9.16
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANUR           -      National Association of Irrigation Users (Asociaci6n Nacional de Usuarios de Riego)
BTO            -      Back to Office
CAS            -      Country Assistance Strategy
CNA            -      National Water Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del Agua)
ERR            -      Economic Rate of Return
ESW            -      Economic and Sector Work
FIRCO          -      Trust Fund for Shared Risk (Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido)
FRR            -      Financial Rate of Return
GIS            -      Geographic Information System
GOM            -      Government of Mexico
IBRD           -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR            -      Implementation Completion Report
IDs            -      Irrigation Districts
IDSP           -      Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project
IMTA           -      Mexican Technology Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua)
lUs            -      Irrigation Units
LA             -      Loan Agreement
M&E            -      Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFTA          -      North American Free Trade Agreement
NPV            -      Net Present Value
O&M            -      Operations and Maintenance
OED            -      Operations Evaluation Department
OP             -      Operational Policies
PRODEP           -    On-farm and Minor Irrigation Improvement Project (Proyecto de Desarrollo Parcelario
y Redes Pequenas de Riego)
QAG            -      Quality Assurance Group
SAGARPA        -      Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries and Food
(Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentacion)
SAR            -      Staff Appraisal Report
SEMARNAT       -      Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y
Recursos Naturales)
TA             -      Technical Assistance
WUOs           -      Water Users Organizations
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:    John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Michael Carroll



MEXICO
On-farm & Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             47
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                50
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            51
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          52
Annex 9. List of Studies and Publications by CNA                                 62






Project ID: P00770 1                                     Project Name: On-farm & Minor Irrigation
Networks Improvement
Team Leader: Michael G. Carroll                          TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 12, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: On-farm & Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement L/C/TFNumber: CPL-37040;
SCL-3704A;
SCPD-3704S
Country/Department: MEX[CO                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Irrigation & drainage (96%); Central government
administration (4%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/13/1992                             Effective:                   09/20/1994
Appraisal:  07/10/1993                               MTR:                       06/11/1997
Approval:  02/17/1994                             Closing: 06/30/2000          03/31/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN) /National Water Commission (Comisi6n
Nacional del Agua -- CNA) and Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido
Other Partners: Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido (SAGARPA)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Mark E. Cackler                           Michael Baxter
Team Leader at ICR:  Michael G. Carroll                        Jose Sinias
ICR Primary Author:  Samuel Taffesse with input from
Fernando Pizzaro; Juan Morelli
and Edgardo Flato.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Safisfactory, S=Safisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.2 Background: The need for the On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Improvement Project (PRODEP) was
embedded in the importance of the irrigation subsector to the Mexican economy in general and to the
agricultural sector and the rural economy, in particular. The PRODEP project complemented the Irrigation
and Drainage Sector Project (IDSP), also financed by the World Bank." The IDSP project supported the
transfer of management responsibility of Irrigation Districts (IDs) from the National Water Commission
(CNA - Comisi6n Nacional del Agua) to Water Users Organizations (WUOs). The IDSP focused its
activities on major off-farm networks and did not include on-farm and minor network improvement. Thus,
PRODEP was the result of the Government's integrated approach towards the subsector. Understanding
the importance of the subsector in the context of the agricultural sector and its status during the preparation
of PRODEP is therefore in order.
3.1.2 Irrigation was the vital subsector in the Mexican agricultural sector: Before 1964, Mexican
agriculture demonstrated a robust growth mainly from an expansion of the area under irrigation.2' In the
1980s irrigated crops utilized only about one-third of cultivated land, but the value of production
constituted 55% of agricultural output and 70% of agricultural exports. In 1991, the per hectare value of
production and yields in irrigated areas were about 175% and 150%, respectively, higher than the value of
production and yields of rainfed areas. Out of the total 5.2 million hectare (ha) irrigated agriculture land,
3.2 million ha were organized under 78 IDs and the remaining 1.8 million irrigated ha were under more
than 27,000 Irrigation Units ([Us).
3.1.3 The agricultural sector and the irrigation subsector were suffering from policy distortions:
Traditionally, the Government of Mexico (GOM) supported parastatals, invested in irrigation and other
infrastructure, limited land transactions (especially on communally-owned ejido3' land), mandated
production targets for growers, marketed crops, and subsidized fertilizers, farm credit and crop insurance.
Fiscal incentives were provided by the subsidization of inputs - notably electric power (for pumping),
irrigation water, agrochemicals and seeds. The overall effects were to distort market signals and inhibit
private agricultural investment for decades, resulting in a heavy reliance of the subsector on public funds.
Irrigation policy was largely an instrument of agrarian reform and support for the achievement of
self-sufficiency in the production of basic grains.
3.1.4 Fiscal incentive became unsustainable: Public investment in the sector fell from US$3.6 billion
in 1981 to less than US$0.23 billion in 1990. This decline in public investment was the result of the 1982
financial crisis.  The economic crisis also left unattended the maintenance works of irrigation
infrastructures. Hence, lack of funds cut the rate of growth of irrigated areas and most importantly it
adversely affected their productivity by reducing maintenance. As a result, expansion of the irrigated area
ended with the financial crisis of 1982 and the consequent reduction in public investment in irrigation.
3.1.5 Irrigation subsector was faced with several problems requiring immediate intervention. By the
late 1980s, the irrigation subsector was showing signs of decline. Cropping intensities (i.e., repetition of
annual crops in the same area) in IDs were, on average, only 1.1 and due to past policies, scarcity of water
limited the potential exploitation of about 75% of the second cropping season. Partly due to traditional
reliance on unlined minor network and on-farm gravity systems, together with low levels of expenditures
for operation and maintenance (O&M), significant water losses were a characteristic feature of the
subsector. In addition, subsidized energy rates led to the intensive use of groundwater in IUs, which
endangered the long-terrn sustainability of aquifers by lowering water pressure and water levels. Salinity
and waterlogging, in various degrees of severity, affected about 7% of the irrigated area. Composed of
- 2 -



more than 600,000 ha in the HUs and 300,000 ha in the IDs, there were almost 1 million non-productive
hectares in the irrigated areas. The most important causes for non-productivity included: (i) incompleteness
of the systems; (ii) deferred maintenance; (iii) drainage and salinity problems; (iv) obsolescence and expired
life of pumping equipments; and (v) reduction in investment due to elimination of high subsidies. Lack of
infrastructure maintenance made water delivery more difficult, diminished the network's flexibility, delayed
water delivery, delivered too much or too little water leading to uncertainty in production and investment
decisions.
3.1.6  The project therefore optedfor improvement of existing irrigation schemes rather than further
expansion of irrigated area. Irrigation in Mexico was (and still is) predominantly gravity-based, with
large schemes developed around storage reservoirs, diversion dams, and conveyance canals. In these
schemes, water conveyance losses are about 40%, while losses in the minor canal networks are almost
20%. At farm level, losses were normally between 30% and 50%. Overall conveyance efficiency was
estimated to be at a low level, between 24% and 34%. 4  The further expansion of the irrigated area was
believed to be technically challenging, expensive, and in some cases of doubtful economic feasibility due to
the difficulty of tapping more groundwater on a sustainable basis and of developing new surface water
resources. In fact, the Bank's assessment in 1991 stated that: "[p]robably some of these areas, especially
the ones supplied with ground water with high energy costs of operation, will never come back into
production."5' Therefore, the project rightly opted for improvement of the existing irrigation systems before
further deterioration and abandonment of farmland continued. The proposed project was expected to tackle
the low-efficiency problem by improving the minor irrigation network and on-farm systems and by training
farmers and WUOs to improve their skills.
3.1.7 Specific geographic area and selected IDs were targeted by the project: The project targeted
irrigated areas of arid zones, in 14 IDs, which were transferred to WUOs, based on the willingness of
farmers involved to participate in improvements to their irrigation systems through cost sharing. In 14 IDs,
44 modules" were selected as the "core area" of the project, which were considered to be the best in Mexico
in terms of productive potential and willingness of the relevant WUOs to improve productivity. In these
selected modules the project aimed to consolidate the decentralization and privatization of irrigation
management, thus promoting private participation in the subsector, targeting public investments to areas of
public good, and reinforcing the role of WUOs.
3.1.8 Taking advantage of improved policy climate. Historically, incentives for private investmnent in
irrigation were limited by legal, regulatory and administrative restrictions. The Agrarian and Water Laws
of November 1991 and December 1992, respectively, provided the legal framework and created a better
environment for private investments in agriculture, specifically in irrigation. The reform to change the
agricultural incentives started in 1982 and the Government's strategy during project preparation was to
reduce government involvement in the sector, eliminate nearly all trade and price protection, cut untargeted
consumer food subsidies, and target spending on public goods and poverty alleviation. This Project was in
line with the Government's objectives as it targeted improvement in private investments in the subsector
while reserving the Government's public good role. With support from several Bank sectoral adjustment
loans," the GOM's successive administrations opened agriculture to international trade with lower and
more transparent protection or taxation. Further, the Government's policy letter spelled out subsector
policies, established that the project was a priority to the country, and committed the GOM to allocate
adequate annual budgets.&
3.1.9 Original Objectives of the Project: As stated in the Loan Agreement (LA),9 the project's objectives
were to: (a) assist the GOM in consolidating the transfer of management and operation of IDs from the
- 3-



public sector to WUOs; and (b) assist irrigation farmers in participating IDs in diversifying their
agricultural production and increasing their efficiency in the use of land and water resources. The specific
objectives cited in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)'0' were to: (a) reduce the loss and waste of irrigation
water, (b) promote decentralization and private investment... in irrigation; (c) increase cropping intensities
and yields; and (d) increase crop diversification into higher value crops.
3.1.10 The objectives reflected the priorities and areas in which immediate intervention was crucial as
diagnosed by the study done by the Bank"' The objectives were consistent with the Government's
strategy of self-sufficiency in O&M, transfer of irrigation districts to WUOs, promotion of a shift away
from basic grains production and of more private sector participation in decisions and investment. The
project was timely in the country's economic context in that Mexico was positioning its economic sectors
for exploiting potential markets under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Increased
private investment in irrigation was planned to be encouraged through the participation of WUOs and
through farmers in decision-making on investments and priorities, under a sound legal, regulatory and
administrative framework.
3.1.11 The project objectives also reflected the Bank's strategy of increasing the efficiency of the
agricultural sector in Mexico through promoting both economically and financially viable private sector
investments in agriculture, and the overall efficiency of the sector. The project was fully consistent with
the Bank's operational policies (see OP 4.07), which among other things calls for "decentralizing water
service delivery, involving users in planning and managing water projects, and encouraging stakeholders to
contribute to policy formulation."
3.1.12 The project clearly stated that the impact on poverty would be indirect by generating 52,000 new
jobs, through increments in harvested land (150,000 ha) and diversification into high value crops (50,000
ha). Diversification and increments in irrigated land were expected to be labor intensive, thereby
contributing indirectly to poverty alleviation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1 During implementation, the objectives were revised. According to the first amendment to the
Loan Agreement (dated June 6, 1997), the project's new objectives were: "(a) to assist the Guarantor
[GOM] in consolidating the transfer of management and operation of Irrigation Districts and Irrigation
Units from the public sector to Water Users Organizations; and (b) to assist Irrigation Farmers in
diversifying their agricultural production and increasing their efficiency in the use of land and water
resources." The change in the objective was related to the inclusion of IUs, whereas the project scope was
originally limited to IDs.
3.2.2 Two amendments were made to the Loan Agreement (LA). The amendment to the project
objective was prompted by the success of the consolidation effort at the ID level. LUs expressed their desire
to benefit from the project's activities and thus the GOM requested the Bank to amend the LA. The
economic crisis of 1994/95 which forced the GOM to significantly reduce the budget for the subsector;
incidence of natural disasters which temporarily shifted CNA's focus on emergency works; and the
institutional restructuring of CNA and the Mexican Water Technology Institute (LMTA - Instituto
Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua), were also factors that contributed to justifying the amendment to the
Loan. The first amendment, in addition to revising the project objective, it also reduced the Loan amount
from US$200 million to US$170 million. (See section 5.4, Cost and Financing).
3.3 Original Components:
-4 -



The Project had the following three components:
3.3.1 Technological Support, Communications and Training (US$39.6 million). This component
was aimed at promoting modem concepts of irrigation design, professional development, adaptive research,
and water user participation, principally in the participating [Ds. The main goal was to assist farmers and
their WUOs to develop and implement improvements in minor-networks and on-farm irrigation systems.
The component included six subcomponents: (i) feasibility studies (US$2.9 million); (ii) training and
professional development (US$5.4 million); (iii) field monitoring and soil surveys (US$12.8 million); (iv)
communication and participation (US$3.7 million); (v) adaptive research (US$10.2 million); and (vi)
technical assistance (US$4.6 million).
3.3.2 Minor Network Improvements (US$259.6). This component, constituting 45.6% of total project
cost, was planned to finance activities and works mainly related to field surveys, engineering works, small
irrigation and drainage networks, water measurement and control structures, access roads, electrical
distribution systems, regulating works and equipment in a "core area" (0.4 million ha). The component
was designed to help fanners and their WUOs to improve off-farm minor irrigation and drainage networks
related to command areas of between 80 and 500 hectares. The completion or improvement of such works
was expected to allow farmers to save water and to develop more frequent, flexible, and dependable
irrigation schedules; with an overall expected impact on productivity increase, and diversification into
higher value crops or intensified cropping. This component incorporated five subcomponents: (i) field
surveys, engineering services, designs and construction supervision (US$19.5 million); (ii) machinery for
construction and maintenance (US$66.1 million); (iii) construction materials (IJS$73.4 million); (iv) minor
networks civil works (US$98.2 million); and (v) inventory control and auditing (US$2.4 million).
3.3.3  3.3.1  On-farm Improvements (US$269.6 million or 47.4% of total project cost). The aim of
this component was to address the observed problem of inadequate mix of machinery and equipment for
construction and maintenance operations (benefiting 0.4 million ha), which was believed crucial in
improving the efficiency of the drainage networks. Through the activities of this component, it was
estimated to cover a total area of 394,000 ha. The activities under this component were mainly comprised
of works that included: (i) 6,000 km of ditch lining; (ii) 800 km of piped farm ditches; (iii) installation of
22,500 ha of sprinlcer, 16,000 ha of drip, 5,500 ha of micro-sprinkler irrigation systems; (iv) 120,000 ha
of land leveling; (v) installation of 15,000 ha with gated pipes; (vi) implementation of about 20,000 ha of
on-farm drainage; (vii) installation of a considerable number of measuring and control structures; and (viii)
electrification for about 250 pumps for pressurized irrigation systems and concrete pipes for subsurface
drainage. This component was comprised of three subcomponents: (i) construction materials (US$44.1
million); (ii) on-farm works (US$120.1 million); and (iii) pressurized equipment (US$105.4 million).
Table 1. Cost by components,  raisal estimate and actual, and ratins.
Component                 Appraisal   Actual/Latest    Actual/Appraisal  Ratings
estimate*  estimate         (%)
Technological support,    39.6        21.2             56.7
Communications & Training                                               S
Minor Network Improvements 259.6     177.2             78.7             S
On-Farm Improvements      269.6      198.3            83.0              S
Total Project Cost*       568.8       396.7            69.7
* Includes physical and price contingencies.
-5 -



3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision of components. However, the project was restructured in 1997. The restructuring
consisted of: (i) inclusion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural Development, Fisheries and
Food        (Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentaci6n --
SAGARPA), through the Trust Fund for Shared Risk (FIRCO - Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido), as
co-executing agency, which was believed to enlarge the project's impact considering that it has proven
mechanisms in place to cofinance private on-farm investments, through the Alianza para el Campo;'3' (ii)
eligibility of [Us for assistance under the project, mainly through the activities of the on-farm improvement
component; (iii) the modification of procurement procedures to allow water users organizations to carry out
procurement of construction materials and design of civil works. To reflect the new procurement
arrangements and restructuring, the allocation of loan funds among the different categories was adjusted.
In addition, the project expanded its geographical coverage to all transferred IDs for three activities: (i)
training of irrigators; (ii) land leveling; and (iii) subsurface drainage. The second amendment also
authorized the transfer of US$15.0 million from category 4 to category 3.
3. 5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  Relevance: The project's objectives were consistent both with the GOM's priorities and the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).  The project objectives are still relevant in that the
Government's current strategy is to continue with decentralization and to deepen consolidation work in the
irrigation subsector as well as to encourage and create the necessary conditions for private sector
investment. The Bank's CAS (April 2002) further validates this strategy, stating that the Bank would
continue to help the Mexican Government in the development of the subsector. The increasing shortage of
water and competition among different users justifies future intervention for the sustainable management of
the country's water resources. The 2002 CAS alluded to the fact that in Mexico, sustainability is one of
the major issues confronting the water sector, which faces a crisis in the near term.
3.5.2  The Project design reflected lessons learnedfrom previous Bank involvement. This Project was
the 19th Bank loan for Mexico's irrigation and drainage subsector. Out of these operations and the IDSP
project (See 3.1.1), five important lessons were learned which were incorporated in the design of this
Project. The five most crucial lessons were the importance of: (i) training in modem irrigation methods and
technology; (ii) early preparation of a manual for minor hydraulic structures; (iii) ensuring sustainable
farmer participation through improved communications; (iv) improvement of field monitoring of yields,
water table movement, salinity levels, irrigation schedules, and water distribution efficiency; and (v)
strengthening the capacity for subproject preparation (notably through feasibility studies and construction
design).
3.5.3 Important agreements were reached with the Government during project preparation. The
preparation of this project required significant up-front Government action in terms of institutional, legal
and regulatory changes. To support these changes several studies were carried by CNA and as a result
new provisions were developed under a new Water Law; priorities were set to speed up the creation of
Water Committees and District regulation, among other things. During negotiations, several agreements
were reached and conditions on Board presentations and Loan effectiveness were put in place to ensure the
swift implementation of the project.
3.5.4 Overall the Project identified the right risks. The project identified three principal risks facing
the implementation of the project and outlined mitigation measures. The three risks were: (i) availability of
adequate and timely govemment counterpart funds; (ii) timely availability, for each subproject, of
feasibility studies, field surveys, detailed designs, and up-front agreements with the beneficiaries for
implementation and cost-sharing; and (iii) the willingness of farmers to invest in on-farm improvements by
- 6-



borrowing money from private banks, and the availability of credit from banks. However, the design did
not reflect risks related to macroeconomic crisis, natural disasters, nor the importance of institutional
coordination. The project also would have benefited substantially if enough considerations were given to
climatic, national and world market conditions since the agricultural sector is prone to changes in these
variables.
3.5.5 During negotiations project implementation and impact indicators for monitoring progress
were established. The SAR contained both progress and impact indicators (See Annex J, pp. 102-108 of
the SAR). Because the SAR predates the adoption of the Logical Framework, the inclusion of detailed
indicators in the SAR was innovative.
3.5.6 Safeguard policies were followed in the design. Since the project was not financing new
irrigation development or increased exploitation of groundwater, no major environmental issues surfaced
during project preparation. As the project improved existing irrigation infrastructures, it was expected to
contribute towards alleviating water scarcity in Mexico. Specifically, the project was expected to reduce
waterlogging and salinity through the development of more efficient water distribution and drainage
systems, by providing incentives to save water through investment in minor network and on-farm systems,
by providing training to farmers and WUO members. The reduction in waterlogging was also believed to
contribute towards controlling waterbome diseases.
3.5.7 The project design conducted an economic analysis: Based on 34 farm models, the preparation
of the project undertook an extrapolation of expected benefits from proposed investments. The ERR was
estimated at over 19%. A sensitivity analysis was made considering the identified risks for the project. As
a result, the ERR was reduced to 16% and 14.5% if the implementation schedule were delayed one and two
years respectively.
3.5.8  There were some shortcomings: Overall the project quality at entry is satisfactory as was also
assessed by QAG. However, there were some weaknesses in the project design. Consolidation work of
transferred irrigation systems, especially for a project aimed at improving productivity and diversification,
should be complemented with agricultural extension service and TA for improving agricultural systems.
Initially, during project preparation, the project rightly identified the importance of including
SAGARPA/FIRCO in project implementation to provide TA to farmers and of introducing better farming
technologies, among other things. However, the final project fell short of including SAGARPA/FIRCO,
which was later included with the first amendment. The project design was over-optimistic in its estimation
of credit availability in the rural areas where banks or credit institutions are undeveloped. The project
design did not foresee the possibility of economic crisis and its potential impact on the irrigation subsector.
The design also overestimated cost-recovery.
3.5.9  According to OED's evaluation of 208 Bank-funded irrigation projects,'4 the factors that most
significantly affect the outcome of irrigation projects are the size of the irrigated area, output price, crop
yield, and unit cost. The design of this project did not fully reflect these factors or analyze these crucial
variables as part of the overall risk and determinant of the project's outcome.
- 7 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  Project achievements should be seen within the context of the economic crisis the country
experienced during the life of this project. At the outset of project implementation, the country was
severely affected by the 1994-1995 economic crisis that according to the latest CAS  had a "devastating
social effect... which in a few months, fully undid the 10-percentage point reduction in poverty levels
painstakingly achieved over the preceding decade." The other main factor, which still bedevils the
expansion and full utilization of irrigation agriculture is the continuous drought affecting the country in
general and the project area in particular. The drought reduced the amount of water normally available for
irrigation. The project also had to cope with natural disasters that the country underwent since it forced
CNA to focus its attention on rehabilitatiing damaged infrastructures and helping the affected communities
(see section 5.1). To a lesser degree, the restructuring of CNA and other implementing agencies likewise
impacted project implementation progress.
4.1.2 Notwithstanding the negative circumstances in which the project was implemented, the project
satisfactorily achieved all its objectives. As stated in the April 2002 CAS, improving water efficiency and
continuing the modernization of the irrigation subsector would be two of the areas for project interventions
the Bank identified for the CAS period (2002-2005). Therefore, the project goals are still relevant both
from the Bank's and the GOM's strategic objectives perspectives. The Government's priorities for the
sector include increasing private sector investment, reducing its budgetary commitment and improving
water efficiency in the subsector. As an outcome of the project objectives, the project has satisfactorily
achieved the Government's triple priorities. The project improved service delivery at national, regional and
local levels; the response time for emergency works has shown a marked improvement; and the work
quality has improved with a lower unit cost. As described below (paras. 4.1.3 to 4.1.10) and in Annex 1,
the indicator targets set during appraisal were largely met. As other independent studies have confirmed,
the cost of O&M, the time taken to respond to requests and the quality of work all have shown a marked
improvement since WUOs became responsible for the management of the O&M of the transferred
irrigation systems.  However, with the expansion of the command area of the project to 1.5 million ha, the
investment made per farmer became minimal. The project impact would have been more substantial had it
limited its activities to the original project areas.
4.1.3 Mexico's irrigation transfer and consolidation process has become a model to other countries.
Although the project set out to work in selected geographic areas, the improvement and benefits the project
brought to farmers in participating IDs created demand beyond the capacity of the project and the coverage
initially intended. As the project area was expanded, its overall impact was reduced because its activity
became widely but thinly distributed. While the project's main impacts, as a result of Components 1 and 2,
were observed in the initial 14 IDs, especially in the 44 selected modules, the impact of Component 3 was
pronounced in areas where FIRCO operated. In the final analysis, the improvement of the irrigation
subsector is reflected in productivity improvement in the agricultural sector, which showed an increase in
the face of reduced water availability, as shown in Annex 1.
4.1.4 There is a growing awareness that water should be treated as a scarce economic good as opposed
to a free resource. This has been a remarkable progress away from a system characterized by crumbling
infrastructure, non-functioning machinery, an increasing deterioration of irrigated lands and alarmingly
falling investment in the system and general inefficiency in water usage but with a highly subsidized
subsector. A cultural shift has begun in earnest towards self-sufficiency and away from a subsidized
system.
-8 -



4.1.5  Objective 1: Consolidating the transfer of management and operation of IDs and IUsfrom the
public sector to WUOs: Satisfactory. Despite the above-mentioned events which transpired during the life
of the project, the project managed to progressively change the Mexican irrigation subsector towards a
more efficient and sufficient system with reduced reliance on government funds. Consolidation of the
transfer implied strengthening WUOs as capable entities to manage, administer and finance their irrigation
systems. This required a continuous effort to ensure the transfer (decentralization) of these responsibilities
from CNA to WUOs. Decentralization, on the other hand, required capacity building of the users to
assume increased responsibility and continuous dialogue with CNA to devolve decision-making
commensurate with the transfer. Through training at all levels, including WUOs and farmers, an improved
capacity at farm level in managing the different aspects of their systems was achieved. A notable example
was achieved in decentralizing procurement of machineries as a result of continuous demand by the WUOs
and the engagement of the Bank. According to a study made on irrigation transfer in Mexico, the new
"machinery mix was completely modified, changing from old, expensive, and inefficient machinery to a
modem mix of light and productive machinery. In addition, the machinery operators hired by the WUOs
are much more productive than the govemment staff that operated the machinery before farmers undertook
the management of these systems. New technologies, such as chemical and biological pest control, were
also introduced. The service provided now is much better than before the transfer."'7'
4.1.6 Several types of training in irrigation management and irrigation technology resulted in an
increased capacity of the users to analyze and choose among technological options with the aim of
increasing the return to invested capital. It has created a critical mass of well-educated professionals at all
levels who share a common goal and are contributing to the modemization of the subsector. More
importantly, at the farm level, the project developed well-trained managers and technical staff.  The
creation of such well-trained staff was the basis for the complete assumption of the management and
operation of the modules by WUOs. The SAR foresaw the training of 407 professionals at all levels; the
project succeeded in training 532 personnel, 131% of the original estimate. Not only there is a consensus
that maintenance has improved since the WUO took-over the responsibility for operation and maintenance
but also these newly consolidated "WUOs are thought to do a better job of carrying out maintenance of the
infrastructure than the CNA, because unit costs have gone down and the WUOs are more flexible in
administering funds."'9' In the 1980s, for every $5 spent on O&M, $4 came out of the government budget.
This has been replaced by full financing of all O&M costs by the users.
4.1.7 Demand-driven, the coverage of the project areas was expanded beyond the 44 IDs, albeit for
selected activities. (See para. 3.4.1) Initially, most of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure as well as
machinery were transferred to the modules without being repaired. Through the combined effort of this
project, and Alianza para el Campo, in terms of machinery, today the Mexican irrigation system is
equipped with well-functioning machinery, which enabled the rehabilitation of the system.
4.1.8 Objective 2: Assisting irrigation farmers in participating IDs and IUs in diversifying their
agricultural production and increasing their efficiency in the use of land and water resources.
Satisfactory. The second major objective of the project's achievement is assessed through a review of the
achievements in specific objectives of the project: (a) reduce the loss and waste of irrigation water; (b)
promote decentralization and private investment in irrigation; (c) increase cropping intensities and yields;
and (d) increase crop diversification into higher value crops.
4.1.9 Reduce the loss and waste of irrigation water: Satisfactory. The achievement in this specific
objective was the result of lining and piping minor irrigation networks; installing sprinklers, drip-, and
micro-sprinklers; and some improvements in surface irrigation such as multigate pipes and land leveling.
-9-



However, the expected result from water saving was compromised due to the continuous drought that
afflicted the project areas. Farmers managed to achieve water savings of 425 M/m3 in 2001, which was
65% of the 650 M/m3/year targeted by the SAR. These savings were also accompanied by a 24%
reduction in the land area cultivated in 17 IDs compared to the 1994 level. (See section 5.2.2). Total
water efficiency improved from 43% to 60%, slightly higher than the 58% goal set during appraisal.
4.1.10 Promote decentralization and private investment in irrigation: Satisfactory. This required a
cultural shift towards a public-good role for the government, specifically by CNA. Once irrigation O&M
management was transferred, it was necessary to reinforce the decentralization with commensurate
responsibility in administrative, financial and managerial systems. In addition to the project activities, this
task was also assisted by the National Association of Water Users (Asociaci6n Nacional de Usuarios de
Riego - ANUR), which represents the interests of WUOs at a national level. Private investment in
irrigation has increased substantially. Many WUOs have made significant investments in improving and
modernizing their infrastructure. To do this, they have turned to private bank loans in which the irrigation
tariff serves as a guarantee. If not for the 1995/96 Mexican economic crisis, which raised the interest rate
to a prohibitive level, the impact would have been substantial. In addition, during this ICR mission, the
team visited areas where individuals are investing in improving farms independent of the project but clearly
as a result of the demonstration effect of the project. However, due to data limitation, such investments
made independently of the project were not included in this ICR
4.1.11 Increase cropping intensities and yields: Satisfactory. Cropping intensity levels increased from
1.0 to 1.20. The share of intensively cultivated land from the total cultivated land increased from 15%
before the project to 21% in 2001. However, major improvements took place in IUs and the changes made
at IDs level were not sufficient to guarantee the profitability of the investment made. Moreover, the
available information does not make it possible to analyze whether these changes are due to PRODEP or a
characteristic feature of Mexican irrigation agriculture as a whole. The observed increase in yields varied
between 15 and 190% for different crop types. The principal increases (see Annex 1) were in: corn
(100%); soybean (15%); wheat (43%); chili (85%); potato (85%); tomato (190%); and melon (25%).
4.1.12 Increase crop diversification into higher-value crops: As a result of intensification, the share of
some products from total production increased; for example, vegetables' share doubled from 4 to 8%, and
the share of processed agricultural products tripled from 4 to 12%. While the share of forage increased
from 8 to 21%, the share of some agricultural products decreased. Notably, this reduction was observed in
corn and wheat, whose combined share declined from 84% to 61%. However, a better result in
diversification could have been achieved had it not been for the government's continued subsidy for certain
types of crops.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Component 1: SuccessfuL Through this component, modern concepts of irrigation design were
developed and implemented, professionals responsible for irrigation development were trained, diverse
types of adaptive research were conducted and most importantly the active participation of WUOs was
achieved. WUOs are now responsible for overall decision-making in the development of their irrigation
systems, water usage, schedule of canal cleaning and machinery use, among other things. A feasibility
study of 89 modules was carried in contrast to the planned 44 (202% of the original plan or an increase of
102%). Through this component 124 courses (in contrast to the 107 estimated during appraisal) of
different duration for diverse participants were provided and several essential course materials were
prepared and delivered for use by WUOs and others involved in irrigation agriculture. In addition, 408
days of TA, at the farm level, by 25 professionals were delivered, which was 136% of the original plan.
- 10 -



4.2.2  To help in field monitoring and soil surveys, the project modernized 29 laboratories (207% of the
SAR estimate of 14 laboratories), prepared 595 pieces of reports (in contrast to the SAR projection of 314
-- 190%) of the original estimate on a list of variables important for the irrigation subsector, including
efficiency in the use of water and improving its quality, groundwater levels, soil salinity and agricultural
production. A remarkable achievement was also registered in soil surveying (including soil maps,
characterization and interpretation) in which 410,000 ha were covered by the study, unlike the appraisal
estimate of 60,000 ha (683% of the original estimate). In adaptive research, the project also established 76
pilot subprojects whose result was disseminated and applied in other modules. As part of the TA, the
component also finalized the preparation of 13 manuals for minor irrigation systems and national and
international experts performed 96 man/months (or 91% of the original plan) of TA. As observed by
QAG, little detailed design work was done prior to the approval of the project, which led to the slow start
of project implementation.
4.2.3  Component 2: Marginally Successful. This component financed the completion or improvement
of civil works including lining of ditches, low-pressure pipe systems, control and measuring structures,
collector drains, minor open drains, and access roads. Although these activities were expected to contribute
to: (a) the realization of water savings; (b) the development of more frequent, flexible and dependable
irrigation schedules; (c) the overall increase in productivity; and to a lower extent (d) the diversification of
output into higher-value crops or intensified cropping, the impact was marginal. The following main
activities were accomplished: (i) as part of field surveys, engineering services, designs and construction
supervision, the project prepared 82 detailed designs (174% of the original estimate) and produced 136
supervision reports (96% of the original estimate); (ii) construction materials were procured, pooled,
allocated and transferred to the participating WUOs through the cost recovery agreement signed between
CNA and each WUO; and (iii) machinery was modernized in all participating irrigation modules. It is also
believed that the project's impact would be much larger since with the acquisition of machinery, users
improved or completed civil works by themselves, which was not accounted for in the preparation of this
ICR.
4.2.4  Component 3: Highly Successful. In order to address the problems observed in the on-farm
irrigation system, this component financed the works of land leveling, on-farm irrigation distribution,
on-farm drainage systems, installation of control and measurement devices, internal regulation tanks and
pressurized irrigation systems. The contribution by WUOs in cofinancing project activities was found to
be optimistic and therefore was revised with the inclusion of FIRCO as co-executor of the project. This
component benefited an area of 225,691 ha (or 127% of the original estimate) and 27,121 producers. A
remarkable achievement was also observed in the expansion of irrigated area under drip and
micro-sprinkder irrigation -- 93,228 ha (or 438% of the original estimate). The total area under sprinkler
irrigation reached 49,519 ha -- a 120% increase of the original estimate of 22,500 ha. A total of 42,373 ha
of land leveling work was carried out, much lower than the appraisal estimate of 120,000 ha. However,
productivity in lUs is estimated to be 50% greater than in IDs, because "the cultivation patterns are more
profitable and because their smaller size and reliance on groundwater induces them to use resources more
efficiently.'"20'
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 The ERR, conducted as part of the SAR estimate, was at over 19%. The sensitivity analysis
indicated that this rate would be reduced to 16% and 14.5% if the implementation schedule were delayed
one and two years, respectively.
4.3.2 The ex-post economic and financial evaluation of the project as a whole encountered several
problems: (i) the fact that IDSP and PRODEP were implemented in the same geographical areas, made it
- 1 1 -



very difficult to separate the individual impact of each project; (ii) project investment resources of the
minor network improvements were spread out over a very large project area (1.5 million ha), which
resulted in small investment per farmer (see 4.1.3); and (iii) lack of adequate information at the beneficiary
level to carry out an adequate analysis of the project's economic and financial viability.
4.3.3  Given the above limitations, attempts were made to carry out a separate economic analysis for each
of the two main components, i.e., Component 2, "Minor Network Improvements" and Component 3,
"On-Farm Improvements". However, these attempts were only partially successful because lack of
information made it impossible to estimate economic and financial rates of return for the "Minor Network
Improvements" component. Nevertheless, as shown in Annex 3, there are some elements that would
indicate that returns to investment under this component were lower than what had been estimated at
appraisal.
4.3.4 In the case of On-Farm Improvements component, information gathered by FIRCO provided a
good basis for estimating the economic and financial rates of return on investment. Based on a sample of
28 representative farm models, the ERR for this component was estimated at 35%, with an NPV of
US$208 million. This rate of return, although relatively high, is consistent with the activities promoted
under this component, which were aimed at improving irrigation technology, increasing yields and
encouraging diversification of production towards high value crops.
4.3.5 However, several benefits were not quantified and as a result not included in this estimation. These
benefits include: (i) environmental benefits; (ii) reduction in waiting time for service; (iii) level of capacity
built across institutions; (iv) benefits of different training; (v) establishment of credit windows by WUOs;
(vi) achievement of better security, particularly in food; (vii) demonstration effect of successful
rehabilitation work and other agricultural improvement works; and (viii) cultural shift and confidence of
farmers in managing their system and administering procurement and the pride demonstrated are factors
that indicate the higher impact the project had than that demonstrated by the ERR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 For the reasons indicated above in 4.3, the FRR was analyzed only for Component 3. On the basis
of the same sample of farm models, the FRR for this component was estimated at 40% and the NPV at
M$1,979 million (or US$216 million, exchange rate on April 18, 2002). The difference between the
economic and financial rates of return is explained mainly by the incentive received by farmers on
investments to improve irrigation technology financed under the project. On average, this incentive
represented 36% of total cost of this type of investment.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 Although the SAR did not specifically discuss institutional development as part of an outcome of
the project, several activities had an institutional development impact. In addition, one of the specific
objectives of the project - promotion of decentralization and private investment in irrigation - presupposes
a change in the rules of the game and as such was an institutional development objective.
4.5.2 Although the constitution and the Agrarian Water Law, which predates the project, removed most
of the constraints, the project required the removal of some remaining regulatory and administrative
aspects. As a result, two further reforms were carried out: (i) all participating IDs established their
regulations in accordance with the objectives and requirements of the Water Law; and (ii) WUOs in
participating IDs changed their statutes as required by the Water Law.
4.5.3 CNA is a strong institution with world-renowned expertise in overall irrigation development and
- 12-



recently in transferring irrigation management. However, the project contributed to the strengthening of its
technical capacity especially through component one, including the establishment of, regional information
offices, installation of an integrated Global Positioning System - Geographic Information System
(GPS-GIS) survey interpretation system, and establishment of crop management systems.  CNA
decentralized its offices to provide continuous TA to WUOs. FIRCO also benefited from the training and
deployment of information systems financed through this project. FIRCO, through the support of this
project, was able to strengthen its management capacity and more importantly established a follow-up
system.
4.5.4  The project has had an important impact on consolidating the transfer of O&M through the
strengthening of WUOs. Today, the users are not only responsible for the O&M of their systems, they are
also responsible for design choices, contractual arrangements, financial decisions, and prioritization of
different works such as drainage works in different parts of their respective districts. The most notable
impact the project had on WUOs was in decentralizing procurement procedures in machinery acquisition.
The project established a system whereby the users would choose the type of equipment they need and
CNA's role was changed to that of facilitator. This decentralization of procurement arrangements was a
catalyst, and is expected to remain so in the future, for users' participation in the overall management of
the transferred system; and it created a sense of ownership.  At present, WUOs are the main
decision-makers on the improvement of the system and it is up to the individual user to produce the product
of his choice. In addition, the WUOs have formed a national association, ANUR, which represents their
interests at national level. (See 6.1.3 on impacts of ANUR).
4.5.5 WUOs now have computerized offices with timely data on finance, production, water use, plot
ownership and other spatial data. This is a significant improvement compared with the before-project
period when tasks were performed by the responsible government agencies with partial information. WUO
demand has shifted in favor of credit provision rather than previous reliance on subsidies and government
quotas on production. Due to this change in the rules, farmers are investing in their systems to improve
agricultural production on their plots. Moreover, there is now quick response to problems that require
immediate solution and better service, at a lower cost, provided by staff hired by WUOs, compared with
services provided by unionized government workers. This achievement, coupled with the increasing role
each member of the WUOs plays, attests to the fact that users are using available human resources more
efficiently and of course equitably since they work for their association. The users have developed a
long-term view in that they are also working on soil and water conservation, which would contribute to the
sustainable use of resources.
4.5.6 The WUOs not only improved their organization in order to deal with water issues, they are also
diversifying their activities to other important activities, which are vital to the success of their organization.
As a result of a cultural shift away from subsidies, in some IDs WUOs are organizing themselves to assist
members of their districts in commercializing agricultural production, such as distribution of fertilizers,
rental of machinery, and establishment of a credit window to provide loans for machinery repair and to
support farmers in adjusting to the new commercialized production environment. This is contributing to
the efficient, equitable use of financial resources of WUOs.
4.5.7 Another important institutional achievement was the transparency in management and financial
accounting. Decisions are made by WUO members or their elected representatives constituting the board
of directors or through the general assembly. The election of their board of directors has given users a
greater voice in selecting the govemance of their systems and the associated WUO offices have become a
source of pride.
- 13 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
5.1.1  The financial crisis that erupted at the beginning of the project had an impact on overall project
implementation. The fiscal tightening that followed the economic crisis constrained the provision of
counterpart funds. The financial crisis tightened the availability of credit especially for the WUOs which
PRODEP foresaw as a source of capital for investment. An increase in the interest rate during the
economic crisis (estimated at 90%) had a negative consequence on farmers' borrowing capacity and those
who borrowed at the market rate suffered the most.
5.1.2  Other important factors affecting the implementation and outcome of this project included the
recurrent drought, the 1997 hurricane, the 1998 floods and the 1999 earthquakes and floods. Specifically,
hydrometeorological disasters accounted for almost 30% of damage, for which CNA was responsible for
rehabilitation and reconstruction.  As an emergency task, these disasters shifted the focus of the
Government and CNA. The continuing drought has affected the project by reducing the availability of
water for irrigation and thus compared to the 1994 level, the amount of land cultivated in 2001 dropped by
24% in the 17 IDs. In some districts, the fall was dramatic - to 21% of the 1994 level. The level of
available water is estimated to have dropped by 46% in 2001 from its 1994 level. The availability of water
reduced the level of water tariffs collected by WUOs and these were felt more by those who were organized
recently with no capital to start maintenance works. These factors affected project implementation but
were beyond the control of the government or implementing agency.
5.2 Factorv generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 According to the CAS (April 2002), in Mexico IBRD loans are not additional to the budgets of the
implementing sectoral ministries; that is, their individual allocations are determined in the federation's
budget independently of how they are funded. The Government, by guaranteeing an annual budget (or by
excluding additional budget from international loans), lacked a mechanism to encourage accelerated
implementation. In the absence of a fiscal crunch, the government could have encouraged an accelerated
disbursement independent of the government budget. By omission, rather than by commission, the
government did not have a built-in mechanism in its budgetary structure to pursue an active role in project
implementation.
5.2.2  During the restructuring of CNA, the project suffered from temporary lapse of focus in project
implementation and follow-up. Changes in staff also had a marginal impact on the implementation of the
project. With the first amendment of the Loan, FIRCO was made a co-executing agency of the project.
However, coordination between FIRCO and CNA was always much below the desired level. The Bank's
supervision missions were forced to work separately with these two institutions, requiring additional time to
realize the full project implementation status.
5.2.3  The government policy of subsidizing basic grains affected the diversification of agricultural
production by distorting market signals and encouraging the cultivation of basic grains.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  As was the case for the government, the observed lack of coordination also applies to the two
co-executing agencies - CNA and FIRCO. SAGARPA, which is now responsible for agricultural
planning, used to be the parent secretariat for CNA. With a new organizational setup, CNA is structured
under the Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) with a decentralized body,
administratively independent from the secretariat. The reorganization left misunderstandings between these
two institutions. The project's implementation and beneficiaries could have benefited more from the
- 14-



synergy of cooperation of these two executing agencies. Given the relationship between these two
institutions, it is a credit to this project that they were able to "cooperate" in the implementation of this
project. However, due to the observed attitude and uncoordinated work, it was difficult to build a
functioning monitoring and evaluation system for the project as a whole.
5.3.2  Frequent changes in the staff of CNA impacted the monitoring and follow-up of project activities.
Sufficient budget for field units was not always available, which limited their overall involvement and
follow-up of the project at ID and IU level.
5.3.3 As part of component 2, Minor Networks Improvements, CNA was responsible for collecting 50%
of the cost for works under this component but payment enforcement was not at the expected level.
Fifty-two modules have paid more than the amount due for this period with an inflationary adjusted
positive balance of M$10.8 million. On the negative side, 72 modules are in arrears with an overdue
balance of M$13 million. With the arrears standing at M$2.2 million, CNA has commissioned a study to
help in the formulation of a strategy to recuperate these outstanding balances. However, this has to be
weighed from the perspective of the impact that natural disasters (especially drought) and the economic
crisis had on farmers.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1  The project disbursed 100% of the reduced Loan amount (or US$170 million). During the 1997
restructuring, the Loan amount was reduced by US$30 million (reducing the Bank's share of the total
estimated project cost from 35.2% to 29.9%), while the private sector contribution increased from 15%,
estimated during appraisal, to 29%. The share of re-discount banks, which were additional sources of
project finance, increased from 25.7% of total project cost to 29%. Understandably, due to the economic
crisis the country underwent and the fiscal problem, the Government's share was reduced almost to half of
the appraisal estimate (from 24.1% to 12.1% of total projected cost). However, the cost composition of the
components was maintained as estimated during appraisal.
5.4.2  A common feature of projects in Mexico is disbursement lags. This is due to, among other things,
the absence of an incentive mechanism for facilitating quick disbursement of international loans, which
does not affect the overall budget of the line ministry implementing a project. In this context, the Bank
team formally revised the disbursement estimate and reduced the loan amount. Considering the delays in
disbursement and the crisis the country endured during the implementation of this project, the closing date
of the project was extended twice.
5.4.3 To promote the smooth start-up of project implementation, the SAR recommended the retroactive
financing of up to US$20 million for key project expenditures incurred after June 21, 1993. However, even
with retroactive financing, disbursement always lagged, especially in 1995 and 1996. In 1996, for
example, the project disbursed US$0.5 million in contrast to the appraisal estimate of US$40 million
(12.5% of the original schedule). However, disbursement was much improved after restructuring in 1997.
5.4.4 The recent actual estimate of project cost was US$396.7 million (69.7% of the appraisal estimate).
Since the Bank's share was almost fully disbursed, the less than full realization of the estimated project
cost is explained by lack of counterpart funds. Only 34.6% of government financing commitment made
during restructuring was realized. However, the contribution of farmers was increased by a net of 93%
during restructuring. The latest estimate indicate that farmers contribution stood at 123% of the
restructured and 238% of the appraisal estimates. This achievement attests to the fact that the project had
on creating interest and commitment by farmers. The on-farm improvements component achieved 83% of
the appraisal estimate, testifying to the importance of inclusion of FIRCO as co-executor of the project.
-15 -



Technical Support, Communication and Training entailed the smallest share of the appraisal estimate
(56.7%). The share of Bank financing out of the estimated cost for this component was only 9%. Since
most of the activities financed under component one were implemented in-country and at local level, with
minimal purchases of goods from abroad, the lower cost might be explained in terms of devaluation. It is a
testament to the project's success that with an estimated 70% of the cost, the project achieved most of its
outputs. Given the observed lag in disbursement and the devaluation, the downward revision of total
project cost made during restructuring was justified.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The regulatory and administrative reforms related to water and land use have created a conducive
environment for private investments and for more efficient use of land and water resources. The
establishment of user-managed irrigation systems and the continuous effort to ensure full-cost recovery of
O&M are among the elements that would guarantee the outcome's sustainability. Since the goal of the
project is to reduce the Government's role in the irrigation subsector, the project's sustainability is largely
dependent on the interest and participation demonstrated by users and the excitement it created in
undertaking, among other things, O&M by farmers.
6.1.2  Farmers have amply demonstrated their interest in managing the transferred systems by
strengthening their organizations, investing in the improvement of their individual plots, paying the
increased irrigation tariff, and borrowing for investment, even in the extreme cases where interest rates
were prohibitive. The expansion of the project's coverage was the result of the growing demand for
consolidation work, which entails cost-sharing for which farmers exhibited their willingness to enter into a
legal agreement. The observed increase in demand demonstrates farmers' interest in improving their
systems and ensuring the resilience of the transfer and consolidation work.
6.1.3  Mexico's irrigation agriculture demonstrated a cultural shift away from a centrally-managed,
highly-subsidized and inefficient system towards a more decentralized, progressively self-sufficient and
efficient system. The decentralization of the management of O&M is non-reversible due to the
Government's interest in reducing its fiscal commitment This was evident during the 1995 financial crisis
when the Government provided almost no operating budget to line agencies such as CNA. In contrast to
the 1982 crisis, when the IDs almost stopped operating due to lack of funds and all maintenance was
deferred, during the 1995 crisis funds from users not only kept the modules operating, but they actually
carried out some of the deferred maintenance and provided critical funds to ensure that CNA could carry
out the O&M at the main canal and water source level. The increased role of WUOs and the fact that
farmers are doing a better job than the Government in the maintenance work of irrigation infrastructure
have transformed the culture in irrigation subsector management. The involvement of WUOs at national
level in negotiations and dialogue with the CNA, SEMARNAT, and SAGARPA, through ANUR, ensures
that decentralization would continue. ANUJR is attempting to create a national contingency fund to cover
financial problems in the WUOs caused by weather-related natural disasters. ANUR also "succeeded in
obtaining an agreement to share the cost of rehabilitation and improvement work evenly with the districts, a
concession for the use of the Carrizo Training Center, and several other minor agreements.'21'
6.1.4  One of the factors that would contribute to the sustainability of the system is whether farmers can
afford to invest in system improvements. Financially, the increased income farmers achieved, coupled with
the observed effort by WUOs to provide credit to their members, would facilitate such an enterprise.
Continued government involvement through Alianza para el Campo would also facilitate the availability of
TA and matching funds for system improvement. In addition, farmers are convinced that by improving
- 16 -



further and investing in their systems they can increase their marketable production, thereby improving
their living standard. Thus, the decentralized decision making implemented by the project, in which
priorities are determined by WUOs, and the increased level of income farmers attained, would be an
incentive for the continued interest in modernizing their systems.
6.1.5  From a technical perspective, the detailed design works done as part of the consolidation of each
irrigation module, the different manuals prepared (especially the users' instruction booklet), the TA
provided in improving agricultural farming techniques, the reference materials produced, the training
conducted at field level, and the modemization of the system through provision of modem equipment all
contributed to the technical resilience of the work done under this project. Among other things, the project
benefited from international experts in irrigation who contributed to the technical resilience of the system.
It is a testament to the sustainability of the system that the World Bank Institute uses the Mexican
irrigation system as a core model for its training. Given that water would remain the most important
natural resource (in terms of limitation and increasing competition for its use), the modernization of the
system would contribute to water saving and improvement in the environment since most of the problems in
the subsector were related to improving the system that was neglected for so long.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 Improvement and modernization of Mexico's irrigation subsector is an integral part of CNA's
regular operation.  The institution has in place appropriate technical staff, financial arrangements
(including cost recovery which is under review), and an institutional mandate to ensure the project's
effective operation in the future. Therefore, there is no need for special transition arrangements. In
Mexico, an international loan would not increase the budget of the sectoral ministry responsible for
implementing the loan. Therefore, there would be no need for new fiscal arrangements to continue the
operation. In fact, historically irrigation transfer in developed countries such as Australia, Japan, Spain
and the U.S. was driven by fiscal necessity, which reduced the governments budgetary commitment. This
is also true for Mexico, which reduced the Government's budgetary commitment to the subsector as a
result of the full assumption of O&M costs by the WUOs and the cost-sharing arrangement implemented
by the project in machinery and equipment acquisition.
6.2.2 However, in order to maintain the momentum achieved and to reach all of the country's IDs and
lUs, the irrigation subsector requires a long-term vision, intervention and sustainable investment.
Additional financing would be required to realize the subsector's full potential, especially in intensification
of irrigation production and continuation of the modernization and rehabilitation of infrastructure.
Accordingly, the GOM has shown an interest to prepare a follow-up project to PRODEP for which a
PHRD trust fund was approved. The new project under preparation is part of the Bank's strategy of
enhancing agricultural competitiveness "through the consolidation of the transfer of the irrigation districts
2211
and their modernization."  The Bank carried a mission to assist the GOM in the preparation of this new
project between January 7 and 11, 2002. (See Aide-Memoire dated March 7, 2002.). In addition, in its
poverty reduction and environmental sustainability objective, the CAS stated that the Bank "...will
continue to work with the line agencies leading environmental protection programs in each sector (in water,
with CNA for the Irrigation and Drainage Modernization.. .)."' Therefore, the Bank's involvement
should be important in maintaining the momentum achieved and would contribute to the future
sustainable use of the country's water resources.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
- 17-



7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  Satisfactory: The Bank preparation team clearly understood the gap that existed in the- Mexican
irrigation subsector. The preparation team placed up-front important conditions, such as completion of
feasibility studies of participating modules, to ensure a smooth implementation start-up. Preparation also
took advantage of the synergies that existed with other Bank projects, specifically the IDSP project.
Project preparation was preceded by ESW on the irrigation subsector.  Several other project working
papers were prepared, including institutional framework and subproject feasibility studies.  The
environmental checklist prepared was instrumental in ensuring that environmental standards are followed
throughout project implementation. The Bank also brought in FAO specialists in irrigated agriculture who
were involved intensively in the design of the project and the diagnosis of Mexico's irrigated agriculture
which was instrumental in project preparation. The preparation of design (including engineering design)
for subprojects was also identified as an important condition for project implementation.
7.1.2  Diagnosis of the subsector during preparation indicated the importance of consolidation and minor
irrigation works which needed immediate intervention to reverse the long-term neglect of infrastructure
maintenance.  Given that the Bank assisted the GOM  in the development of the subsector, this
modernization effort was the natural continuation of the several years of cooperative efforts by the Bank
and the GOM. Considering the prevailing conditions in the country, the preparation team identified the
appropriate level of financing for the activities identified, notwithstanding the fact that the Mexican
budgetary system lacked a mechanism to accelerate disbursement of international loans. The detailed
M&E indicators were identified and the establishment of such a system in CNA was innovative at a time
when Logical-Frameworks were not part of the Bank's project preparation. As described in Section 3.5
above, the project preparation team did a satisfactory job in identifying the right combination of
intervention to modernize the Mexican irrigation subsector.
7.1.3 However, as observed and rated by QAG, while the project design was appropriate, the project was
not ready for implementation at approval because little detailed design work was done prior to approval.
The design of the project should have incorporated SAGARPA/FIRCO as co-executing agency. Although
the preparation mission's BTO report of December 23, 1991, identified FIRCO as a possible
co-implementing agency, SAGARPA was included as a co-executing agency only in 1997 after project
restructuring. Given the responsibility for supporting irrigated farmers through TA for production and
assistance in obtaining inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and pest treatment, the laxity in including FIRCO
earlier during project appraisal might have reduced the overall project impact.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  Satisfactory. Bank supervision has generally been creative, sought solutions to problems and
adapted to the changing economic situation, institutional arrangements and personnel. As the economic
crisis started to be felt by the irrigation subsector, the supervision team restructured the project and reduced
the Loan amount. As demand for project coverage increased and farmers showed their preparedness,
geographical coverage was expanded. The Bank identified alternative sources of counterpart funds,
developed a decentralized procurement arrangement, maintained the composition of the task team, involved
Bank staff from the Bank's decentralized office, formally revised disbursements, made modifications in
disbursement categories and adapted new cost sharing for machinery.  Recently, the Bank supervision
mission was successful, to a degree, in bringing about collaboration between CNA and FIRCO. The Bank
supervision mission successfully resisted pressure from CNA to include all districts for all activities. The
Bank reasoned with the Borrower that such action would have distributed the project activities thinly across
the country and thus the project's impact would be minimal. In fact, the Bank's position was found to be
right given that the Loan was fully disbursed and there are still some uncompleted works in the transferred
- 18 -



IDs. The supervision mission argued that a project of such extent, that is, covering all the IDs, should be
taken in stages based on lessons learned from past and present consolidation experience. However, the
rationale for expanding the coverage was dictated by the fact that there was no sufficient number of eligible
IDs to implement the 50% cost-sharing mechanism.
7.2.2 The decentralization of procurement that the project implemented was a best practice which should
be applied in other cases where local communities have the capacity to make such a decision. However, the
Bank's supervision should have followed through the establishment of M&E unit in CNA, which could
have permitted ongoing improvement of the indicators throughout the implementation period. The SAR
anticipated that "as data become available about project costs and returns, real measures of the impact on
agricultural productivity and farmer incomes will be derived from work supported by the operation." This
impact study was not carried out due to the absence of a functioning M&E system. While the inclusion of
FIRCO as a co-executing agency was a quick response to an oversight made during preparation, the Bank
should have required a binding agreement between the two institutions in their common task of
implementing the project.
7.2.3 Overall Bank performance: Satisfactory.
7.2.4 Given the extreme economic crisis and the natural disasters the country experienced during project
implementation, the Bank adapted innovative mechanisms to the changing circumstances and ensured that
the project's overall objectives were not compromised. Bank supervision missions ensured that project
implementation did not involve significant deviations from Bank policies and procedures on safeguards,
financial management, procurement, disbursement and cost by component and subcomponent.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1 The overall performance of the Borrower is assessed as satisfactory. Notwithstanding the
significant limitations outlined above in paragraph 7.2.3, the Borrower's commitment to the project was
unwavering. The limitations observed are only related to processes, and their impact on the achievement of
the project's overall objective was marginal.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as Satisfactory.
7.4.2 The Government was committed to its aim of modernizing the irrigation subsector, as expressed in
the Government's Sector Policy Letter (12/6/93). The Government created a small Project Unit (PU)
within CNA in July 1993 and showed its commitment to the project by agreeing to implement it through the
active participation of WUOs. Early in project preparation, the Government removed some constitutional
(Article 27) and legal (Agrarian and Water Laws) constraints for improving the irrigation system.
According to the SAR, "... project preparation was accomplished with active participation of Government
officials and required actions on a number of fronts." The Government, through CNA, made regulatory
and administrative changes to ensure its commitment to the objectives of the project and to minimize risks
in project implementation schedules.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 The Government's overall implementation performance is rated Satisfactory.
7.5.2 Most of the key conditions were fulfilled. The main unfulfilled condition was design work which
delayed project implementation. Due to factors beyond government control (the 1995 financial crisis), the
- 19 -



GOM was unable to fulfill its counterpart fund commitment. However, the Government, with the Bank's
collaboration, was able to adapt a hybrid source of counterpart funding through its Alianza para el Campo
program and contribution by WUOs, in addition to resuming its budgetary commitment once the crisis
reached a manageable level. The Government shielded the project from political interference by leaving
daily follow-up and operational decisions to technical staff. The Borrower, Nacional Financiera, through
which the loan funds flowed to the implementing agencies, accomplished its duty remarkably. The
arrangement worked extremely well.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 Satisfactory. CNA and FIRCO were instrumental in helping the Bank restructure the project, find
altemative sources of counterpart financing, and implementing the project per agreed arrangements. CNA
was successful in incrementally transferring decision making to WUOs and promoting the participation of
beneficiaries in the management of the transferred systems. The reorganization of CNA improved the
project's performance by putting staff closer to IDs. CNA also provided technical assistance in the design
of subprojects, training users, preparing different manuals and enhancing its own capacity and adapting to
the new evolving role in irrigation management.  Except for a temporary lapse during disaster
rehabilitation, in general CNA successfully focused its activities towards the achievement of the project's
objective and dialogued with the Bank on the inclusion of new activity in the project and on expansion of
the geographic coverage, although the latter was the result of WJUO demand. FIRCO was instrumental in
the observed direct increase in agricultural production and productivity. It was able to amalgamate the
Government policy of Alianza para el Campo with project implementation, which amplified the project's
impact and contributed towards alleviating deficiencies in counterpart funding. However, some significant
weaknesses were exhibited by both institutions: (i) lack of cooperation between the two executing agencies;
(ii) CNA's lapse in implementing an M&E system although it did have in place the capacity and the system
to implement it; (iii) inadequate cost recovery; and (iv) frequent changes in operational staff.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1 The overall performance of the Borrower is assessed as satisfactory. Notwithstanding the significant
limitations outlined above in paragraph 7.2.3, the Borrower's commitment to the project was unwavering.
The limitations observed are only related to processes, and their impact on the achievement of the project's
overall objective was marginal.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    Irrigation agriculture aimed at increasing agricultural production and the efficiency of resources
such as water should be complemented by training and improvement of technology, as part of a TA
package. It should be realized that irrigation subsector improvement and the resulting agricultural
development cannot be attained through rehabilitation of infrastructure alone. This project was the
recognition that the transfer of the management of the project and off-farm activities alone were not
sufficient in improving efficiency, enhancing private investment, diversifying production, and enhancing the
participation of WUOs. The provision of TA should be an integral part of the package and would serve as
an incentive mechanism for WUOs to invest in their individual plots.
8.2    When the project activity or objective requires the inclusion of a co-executing agency, an
arrangement and binding agreement should be first established on the modalities of collaboration in project
implementation. The inclusion of FIRCO as a co-executing agency was done without a well-defined
collaboration arrangement with CNA
8.3    Rehabilitation of irrigation networks creates benefits to the society as a whole and to users who do
- 20 -



not share the cost of improving the system, i.e., it creates a "free-rider" problem. An improvement in
networks, canal lining, etc. improves water quality, saves water and contributes to the sustainable
management of the environment, but the cost would be borne by the specific WUOs. Therefore, it would
be the Government's responsibility to share the costs involved. In the absence of such a mechanism, users
will be inclined to defer maintenance for the future, further deteriorating the system.
8.4    Decentralization of management is a long and continuous process, which requires unwavering
commitment by the government and responsible agencies. Although the process of decentralization has
gained substantial momentum, it is imperative that additional activities, such as improving the technical
capacity of WIUOs, improving regulations and procedures in, among other things, water tariff payment,
should be constantly and consistently followed up, commensurate with the level of development achieved,
and should be disseminated.
8.5    It is crucial to establish a national contingency fund to assist in covering financial costs during
economic crises and/or natural disasters. During the 1995-96 period, an extraordinary drought took place
in northern Mexico. WUOs did not have water to deliver to farmers and consequently the collection of fees
dropped to nearly zero. The GOM stepped in with a 1000% subsidy for most of the WUOs, which
prevented the possible collapse of these associations. ANUR is also working to establish a permanent
emergency fund to tackle such problems when they occur.
8.6    Bank supervision should resist the expansion of the project's coverage and scope beyond what is
achievable with the available resources and time, in order not to compromise the final impact of a project.
Bank supervision to some extent resisted the enlargement of the project to cover all transferred irrigation
modules for all activities. However, the mission was not successful in resisting the inclusion of RUs and the
expansion of coverage for selected activities. In this case both FIRCO and CNA should have been made to
work in the originally defined project area. While the inclusion of FIRCO as a co-executing agency in
project implementation permitted the provisions of much needed counterpart fund and TA to farmers which
was instrumental in improving their production methods and transferring new technologies, the project's
overall impact would have been much larger had FIRCO's activities been limited to the original project
area.
8.7    Transfer of irrigation management and the usually observed cultural shift towards more
consolidation work create a strong demand for credit by WUOs to invest in their individual plots. In
Mexico, some WUOs have established a credit window for their members. Therefore, a mechanism should
be in place after the transfer and during consolidation to provide credit through the private bankng system,
even without preferential terms. However, during financial crises and in periods when interest rates rise to
prohibitive levels, a strategic intervention is necessary to maintain the momentum achieved. In the case of
Mexico, those who managed to secure a loan from private banks have been negatively affected by the
significant increase in interest rates that took place in 1995. The importance of such a system in the rural
farm setting is crucial since by their very nature most farmers are risk-averse.
8.8    In local development projects, where the beneficiaries have the capacity and demonstrated interest
in making decisions on the procurement of goods and services, this task should be decentralized. The
acquisition of machinery directly by the modules showed a very positive result since it: (i) prompted users
to assume responsibility for the property; (ii) prompted them to improve their technical capacity; (iii)
increased the efficiency of the machinery because the technical specifications were made based the
experience and knowledge of the users; and (iv) enhanced the efficiency of the machinery as it was rented to
other modules.
-21 -



8.9    Training at all levels should be a continuous process rather than a one-time goal. As transfers are
consolidated, the role of both the government agency responsible for irrigation and the WUOs evolves and
changes. WUOs would assume an increased responsibility, as the role of the irrigation agency would be
oriented towards supervision, guidance, monitoring and regulation of water rights, in addition to the
provision of selected TA. As a result of these changes it is important to provide training on a continuous
basis, both to staff of government agencies and WUOs, and to update the training materials to the new
requirements. Specifically, support to WVUOs to strengthen their organization and generate leadership skills
and attitudes of self-reliance is crucial to the success of consolidation efforts.
8.10   In most countries where irrigation transfers were implemented, users do grow to forming a national
association that represents their interests at national level. Since other interests, such as municipalities and
industrial water users, are usually larger and have strong political clout, it is important for users'
associations to establish national (and even in some cases regional) associations. In countries such as
Mexico, where organized groups influence decisions, the importance of a national organization is
self-evident. It would also allow them to bargain with the government, benefit from cost savings from bulk
purchases, and in general formulate a common policy
8.11   The participation of users in the selection, design, contracting, execution and financing of their
irrigation system would guarantee the system's ownership and sustainability. In the case of Mexico, as
participation of WUOs increased and their decision making expanded to cover several areas, the sense of
ownership and willingness to pay for the improvement work were markedly enhanced.
8.12   It is not enough to arrange for establishing a monitoring and evaluation system at appraisal. Bank
supervision has to make sure that the M&E system is continually updated and followed through and make
it the benchmark on which the project unit is to be measured. Although this project identified indicators
and foresaw the establishment of the M&E system at CNA, and in spite of the fact that CNA has the
arrangement and the capacity to implement this system, due to lack of follow-up early in project
implementation the project failed to implement the system.
- 22 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
SUBDIRECCI6N INTERNACIONA
Agent. Financ/n
26 de sepUembre de 200
CIE-217
SRi MICHAEL CARROL
Jefe de PmyOtDo
BSlid Mundlal
1818 H Steet. N. W.
Washington. D.C.
20433, U.SA
Hago nferencia a] Prestano 3704.UE conbetado con el Banco intewnaconal 
ReoonauL6n y Fomnento, desofludo a financiar parcialmato el Proacto  e
Dasanollo Paolalto y Rodeo Pequeslbs do Riogo (PRODEP) y             a
Inbnofe de Temlnci6ln del Proyecto (ICR).
Sobre el paiUcutar. alwxo a Is present so servra enconbar used un ejempar q e
Induye los cornantarbs de la CNA al Inhform wniba seflaado, con objeto de q e
sean Incorpomdos an dicho Informe.
Por ato lado y en conrvenacl6n teletnlca con Uc. Juan Vlla do FIRCO. no tbr n
comentarlos a] respecto.
En esto sernido, estaltar  en o spera de 7 ejemoolares del Inibmfe do Termhlnd n
del Proyecto pars su onvto a la SHCP, CNA y FIRCO.
Sin mAs por el  n  to apwvecho to ooasl6n parm envarb un sakido.
Atent         t o;
C.P. Luib lthe Murriota
Subdlrc
Ani: La alado
o.o.p. bi. Jos Luis Monwwo 5Empfbo- Ohecov Ecuarvo de Nommdaded y Corl de t
Oe eOldfn ddr-knbo de Reso Crp     rrRaoD F
ccp. icm ftl Delgado Ared retor de Pryoe Prductvo a I   n eewbuelur SHCP
.cp. ar. rStl Doeeomj&- erie de Fkowlenbrbo; CNA
bugrm9al.- Swl971,Cd.Giadekpe lh6oim No* D .F-   .S325-800
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no other cofinancers to this project.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No other partners in implementing this project.
- 23 -



10. Additional Information
List of Footnotes
1. Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project (IDSP), Loan 3419-ME, approved in December 1991.
2. During 1960-1980 over 2.6 million ha of irrigated agricultural land were developed.
3. Ejidos: settlements developed by the Government for small farmers where the land user (ejidatario) has rights to
use land, but not property rights.
4. According to the SAR, the comparable figure of efficiency ranged between 50% and 60% for the states of
California and Arizona, across the border, which irrigated a given area with almnost half of the water used in
Mexico. P.5.
5. See Back-To-Office report of Dec. 23, 1991. Attachment 1, p.2.
6. Modules are the hydraulic units into which IDs are geographically divided for purposes of transfer of
management and operation of Minor Irrigation Networks to WUOs.
7. These included: Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans (AGSAL I, Loan 2918-ME and AGSAL II, Loan
3357-ME). In addition these changes were also supported by the Fertilizer Sector Adjustrnent Operation (Loan
2919-ME).
8. Govermnent Sectoral Policy Letter, dated Dec. 16, 1993. Translation of the Letter was attached to the SAR, pp.
124-127.
9. Loan Agreement. Loan Number 3704-ME, dated June 10, 1994, between IBRD (the Bank) and Nacional
Financiera, S.N.C.
10. The World Bank. 1994. Staff Appraisal Report -- Mexico - On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks
Improvement Project. Report No. 12280. P. 10.
11. The private sector was represented by the participating WUOs.
12. IBRD. 1993. Mexico: Review of Conditions for Encouraging Private Investment in Irrigation. Report No.
11774-ME.
13. The Alianzapara el Campo program was introduced in 1996 to foster agricultural productivity through
investments and the provision of support services for a wide range of agricultural subprograms including small
irrigation schemes.
14. Jones, William I.. 1995. OED. Operations Evaluation Study. The World Bank and Irrigation. Report No.
14908.
15. The World Bank. 2002. Mexico: Country Assistance Strategy. Report No. 23849.
16. See for example, Palacios, Enrique V. 2000. Benefits and Second-Generation Problems ofIrrigation
Management Transfer in Mexico. In Groenfeldt, D. & M. Svendsen (eds.). 2000. Case Studies in Participatory
Irrigation Management. World Bank Institute. WBI Learning Resource Series. No. 20247.
17. Palacios, Enrique V. 2000. ibid. P.16
18. Ibid. P. 13. According to this study: "About 80 percent of those interviewed considered that maintenance had
improved since the WUOs have been in charge."
19. Ibid.
20. Palacios, Enrique V. 2000. ibid. P.6.
21. Palacios, Enrique V. 2000. ibid p. 16.
22. The World Bank. 2002. Country Assistance Strategy. Report No. 23849-ME. p. 29.
23. Ibid.
24. Ibid.
25. The World Bank. 1993. Mexico: Review of Conditions for Encouraging Private Investment in Irrigation.
Report No. 11773-ME.
26. Produced separate list of eligible equipments to be supported under a new arrangement under the project, with
an up-front payment of the 50% contribution by beneficiaries (available to all equipment ) and another requiring
payment of the 50% contribution by beneficiaries over a seven-year period with a one-year grace period (to be
available for heavy equipment).
-24-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
INDICATOR              UNIT            Initial Value     Foreseen in SAR     Achieved (2001)
DESCRIPTION
Water conveyance                      /                 6                   8                 87.0
efficiency
ater application                    /                 6                   6                 69.0
efficiency
Total water efficiency                /                 43                  51               60
Increased availability           io6 m3                17                  66                 425
of water for irrigation
Intensity of land use                 /                 1.                 1.                  1.2
(cropped/physical
area)
Crop diversification                 %                 15.                19.                 21.0
(intensive cropping/
cultivated area)
Improvement in yields            Ton/h
of principal crops:
- Corn                                                 4.4                5.0                 8.86
- Soybeans                                             1.91               2.0                 2.20
- Wheat                                                4.5                5.0                 6.50
- Chile                                               16.1               18.1                29.73
- Potato                                              17.0               19.7                31.53
- Tomato                                              18.0               21.0                52.30
- Melon                                               20.0(              24.0(               25.11
Total production of              103 ton
principal crops:
- Corn                                                460.               620.                852.0
Soybeans                                             100.               180.                 12.7
- Wheat                                               590.               660.                708.8
- Chile                                                70.               160.                207.5
- Potato                                               70.                90.                143.9
- Tomato                                              240.               600.                 84.
- Melon                                               145.               300.                 21.0
Production value of            10 3US$2
principal products:
- Corn                                                  8                  12              123,884
- Soybeans                                              3                   64               2,908
Wheat                                                 11                  13              68,771
- Chile                                                 1                   4               68,801
- Potato                                                1                   2               50,150
- Tomato                                                5                  13               22,209
- Melon                                                 1                   2                1.369
46(                 82             700,000
Users' annual income           103US$2                12.1(              22.71               20.56
1/ Refers to the partial efficiency of PRODEP modules (obtained exclusively in the specific geographic parts of modules in
which the Program's actions were applied), in the understanding that the overall efficiency of the modules increases from
35.6% to 39.8% in the period from 1994 to 2001.
2/ Nominal terms.
-25-



Project Implementation (Output) Indicators
COMPONENT              SUB-             TARGET             UNIT            FORESEEN          EXECUTED
COMPONENT         DESCRIPTION                             IN SAR
Technical Support, Feasibility Studies  Studies completed  No. of studies                4                  60
Communication and                    per TOR for I
Training                             module each for
groups I and 2
Training and      Short 2-week       No. of courses                    1                 4
Professional      courses in modem   successfully
Development       irrigation         completed
methodology for
engineers and other
professionals
6week course with No. of courses                     1                  6
diploma on various successfully
subjects          completed
Courses, seminars  No. of courses                                       8
and intemational  successfully
study tours       completed
Courses for UA    No. of courses                     5(                49
echnicians       successfully
completed
Short courses for UA No. of courses                  2                 1
administrators    successfully
completed
Organized field   No. of field trip days            301               408
trips, assistance to at
east 25 farmers on
each trip (average
50)
Strengthening of  Incrementable costs US$ thousands                 3,411              3,426
OIRyD             for staff, services,
travel and office
supplies I/_2_
Procurement of    Laboratory and     No. of laboratories               1                  2
equipment          electronic
equipment, vehicles
Field monitoring  Annual report on  No. of reports                    7 1               136
water use efficiency
completed for each
district
Annual report on the No. of reports                  71               136
efficiency of water
quality monitoring
completed for each
district
Annual report on  No. of reports                     4                136
monitoring of water
egislation
completed for each
district
Annual report on  No. of reports                     5                151
monitorng of soil
salinity completed
for each district
-26 -



Annual report on  No. of reports                    71               136
monitoring of
agricultural
production
completed for each
district
Soil survey       Production of soil  thousands ha                    60               410
maps, descnption,
nterpretations and
areas designated
Communication     Funds appropriated US$ thousands                '1,34               1,063
for personnel,
equipment, training
and technical
assistance
Communication     No. of districts                  1                 17
equipment for
districts
Videos, brochures, No. of presentations                             1.423
bulletins, radio
programs, etc.
Applied research  Preparation phase:  No. of studies                  1                 76
definition of
research project,
basic studies
Installation phase:  No. of pilot parcels           13                76
bidding and
installation of
equipment,
mplementation of
pilot parcels
Experimentation and No. of annual                   3                 76
evaluation phase.  reports
Annual report onr
results of research,
final reports with
recommendations
Technical assistance Design manual for  Manual                         1                 18
smaller systems
according to TORs
Extemal experts   month/man                         3                 9
provided for design
of smaller systems
and drainage works
Operational support month/man                       26                96
to UAs: external
experts in
maintenance,
programming, cost
recovery, marketing,
etc.
Extemal experts for month/man                       4                 9
salinity control, land
recovery and soil
conservation
[mprovement of    Design of studies  Preparation of   No. of designs                    47                 8
Smaller Networks                    detailed designs  I                                   I            --
Supervision of civil Hiring of      Supervision teams                14                 136
-27-



works              supervision services (reports)      l   _l_l
Bidding for        * Front loader    No. of machines                    3                157
machinery          Backhoe           No. of machines                    46                 0
Machinery for canal No. of machines                  2
lining
Machine to install  No. of machines                  I                   0
pipes for deep drains
Machine to install  No. of machines                  1                   0
shallow drains
Dump truck         No. of machines                  103                241
Machine for        No. of machines                   2                   0
concrete sealing of
flumes
Open drain         No. of machines                   2                   0
back-digger
(DONDI)
Cement mixer       No. of machines                  17                   0
Hydraulic excavator No. of machines                  20                 90
for open ditches
Motor grader       No. of machines                   24                 53
Water pipe         No. of machmes                    53                  0
Diesel pipe        No. of machines                   53                  0
Caterpillar truck  No. of machines          3_       443
Self-propelled     No. of machines                   43 
scraper
Tractor            No. of machines                   3A                213
Grader             No. of machines                   31                  (
Trailer scraper    No. of machines                    31               298
Rotary cutter      No. of machines                   39               X
Cyclic cutter      N. of machines                     4 
Bidding for        Cement            ton                           209,734             26,298
matenals           Rod               ton                             2,841              3,105
Electrically welded m2                                             122,097
mesh
Aggregates, gravel m3               _            818,689             52,400
Aggregates, sand   m3                            650,158            43,200
4" PVC pipe        m                             357,724           904,051
4", 6" and 8" PE   m                                              1,775,787
IO" PVC pipes     m                                                183,795
12"' PVC pipes                                                     185,606
6" and 8" PVC pipes m                            142,552          1,448,640
14" PVC pipes     m                               11,954            78,044
18" PVC pipes     m                              29,05,             48,999
20" PVC pipes      m                              15,31 (             6,037
24" PVC pipes      m                             239,08(            20,437
18" concrete      m                               8.90" 
collection drain
30" concrete      m                                1,70                  0
collection drain
Water control      Num.                           11,431              5,597
structure
Civil Work         Lining of canals or Ian                           4$800                555
irrigation ditches
Low-pressure pipe  km                                40                33
system                                                   _    _       _
- 28 -



Structures for    Num.                          16,100             6,082
control and
measurement                                       .        _.     -
Collection drains  km                            2,180             3,366
and small-scale open
drains                                      .
Access roads      km                               600                 0
On-Farm           Bidding for       Cement            ton                          133,063                 0
Improvement       Materials         Rod               ton                              251                 0
Aggregates, gravel m3                          335,355                 0
Aggregates, sand  m3                           261,800                 0
6" PVC pipes      m         .                                    249,859
8" PVC pipes      m                            416,185            13,469
10" PVC pipes     m                            231,214             8,266
12" PVC pipes     m                            152,601             5,772
6" concrete pipes  m                           833,295
8" concrete pipes  m                           267,977                 0
.______________ 24" concrete pipes  m                             29,364              346
Civil works and   Lining of irrigation km                          6,000                 0
irrigation equipment ditches
Low-pressure pipe  km                              800                 0
system
Low-pressure pipe  ha                                               1,178
system
Land grading      ha                           120,000            42,373
Pipes with        ha                            14,350             9,649
Integrated floodgates
Irrigation by     ha                            22.500            49,519
spraying__            _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Drip irrigation   ha                            15,750            72,496
Irrigation by     ha                             5,50s            20,732
micro-sprinkling
Other irrigation  ha                                               16,904
systems
Electrification of  Num.                           250                 0
pumps
Underground       ha                               20              12,840
drainage
* The front loader comes with a backhoe
1/ Financed only by local funds.
2/ Also refer to working document C-II for additional physical details.
-29-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal  Actual/Latest      Percentage of
Estimate   Estimate           Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$        US$ million
million*
Technical support, communications and 37.4     21.2               56.7
training                            _
Minor network improvements          225.3      177.2              78.7
On-farm improvements                238.9      198.3              83.0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Total Project Cost*                 568.8      396.7              69.7
Total Project Cost includes Physical (US$15.6 million) and Price (US$51.6 million) contingencies
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     ICB' -    P           Method .                   To/ll Cost
NCB  ~~' -Oth:er2               ____7__
1. Works                     0.00         1.60         9.70        329.80      341.10
(0.00)       (1.50)       (8.80)       (0.00)      (10.30)
2. Goods                    161.40       24.00         0.50         0.70        186.60
(145.30)     (21.70)       (0.40)       (0.00)     (167.40)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00        24.50         16.60       41.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (22.30)      (0.00)      (22.30)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    161.40        25.60        34.70       347.10       568.80
(145.30)     (23.20)       (31.50)      (0.00)      (200.00)
- 30 -



Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement -Method
.  Expenditure Category   -   -C Pthod                                             N.B;F.   -   Totalost
O   ,   . -  ! 'II  -  --  -  -   -  '   .      .-'_---O ther - --                . -    .   ,
1. Works                             0.00             0.00             1.30           43.40           44.70
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.00            90.80           132.80          223.60
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00            14.90            6.30           21.20
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     28.90            19.20            9.20           23.30            80.60
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00             0.00           26.60           26.60
._______. ______._______        (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                            28.90            19.20           116.20          232.40           396.70
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ milion equivalent)
|ApDrag estmate          Restructwred estimate      ActuaVte   Esstmate       % Actal PRestuctured        |
1 _  _  _                      _   BanoIfng  GOM   Fanner
Coponent      IBRD   ai_g GOM    Fn MM         Bakig  GOM   F   eIBRD BanIing   GOM   Fammes IBRD  Syal
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                        ____ ~I  IRediscoutt
Technical      18.2  1.8   15.4  4.2    10.3   3.0    23.3  3.0    14.6  NA     6.6   0.0    141.7 NA.      28.3  0.0
Support,
Comurunication
and Training
Mtnor Network  142.1       4.3          132.0  49.1   29.4  49.1   86.8  N.A.   10.9  79.5   65.8  NA        37.1  161.9
Improvements
On-fam         39.7  144.  117.5  81.2  27.7   112.7  16.4  112.8 68.6   N.A.   6.4   123.3  247.7  NA       39.0  109.3
hIprovements         4                         _                               l
Total project  200.0 1.    137.2  85.4  170.0  164.8  69.1  164.   170.  NA     23.9  202.8  100   NA        346   123.0
cost                 2                                      9      0
Notes: N.A.= Not available. Banking refers to Banktng system Rediscount.
The Restructured estimate shows the main adjustment made as part of the First Amendment. The changes made as a result of
the Second Amendment are not reflected in the table. The Second Amendment was driven by availability of counterpart fund
for On-Farm Improvements through Alianza para el Campo, which altered component cost composition of the Loan in favor of
On-Farm Improvements component. (See Aide-Memoire of Supervision Mission #9).
- 31 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
A. Introduction
1.     The SAR estimated a 19% Internal Rate Return (IRR) for the project. The estimate was based on
the extrapolation of results of 34 representative farm models of the 10 Irrigation Modules (IM) for which -
at the time of project preparation - feasibility studies and detailed designs existed. The design considered
that the 44 modules to be incorporated into the project would belong to the same Irrigation Districts (IDs)
to which the 10 original IDs belonged. Thus, it was believed that the expansion of the results of the 10
representative IMs would hold for PRODEP as a whole. Market prices were adjusted based on World
Bank projections of international prices for raw materials. It was also estimated that the IRR would be
reduced from 19% to 16% and 14.5% if project implementation were to be delayed by one or two years,
respectively.
2.     During the preparation, it was forecasted that the project would: (i) directly benefit 400,000
hectares (ha) of irrigated land; (ii) improve overall efficiency in the management and distribution of water;
(iii) increase the intensity of land use from 1.1 to 1.39; and (iv) increase cultivated areas under irrigation in
the 44 IMs to 550,000 ha. The expansion in irrigated land was planned to be achieved through
improvements in the efficiency of water use, which would permit an increase in the availability of water in
participating IMs. Furthermore, 30% of the expected increase in areas to be cultivated under irrigation
(45,000 ha) was estimated to be dedicated to high-value crops such as fruits and vegetables. In addition, as
the efficiency in water use and irrigation schedule improves, it was estimated that there would be a 5% to
17% increase in the productivity of main crops. The resulting value of production was estimated to grow
by 60% over the level that would be achieved in a "without project" scenario.
3.     PRODEP showed substantial divergence away from the original design during its implementation.
Minor network improvement, on the one hand, and on-farm improvement, on the other - each with a cost
budgeted at approximately US$260 million - both in their specific areas of coverage, lacked coordination
during implementation. Contrary to the original plan, which called for both components to work in 44 IMs
covering an area of 400,000 ha, as complementary activities, the program extended its coverage to an area
more than three times larger which reduced the level of support envisaged in its original area of coverage.
The Minor-Network Improvement component executed by CNA, instead of concentrating its efforts and
resources on the 44 IMs, distributed activities in nearly all the transferred IMs, covering an area of over 1.5
million ha. Although the impact was somewhat reduced due to wide dispersion of coverage, the component
was implemented satisfactorily. Furthermore, under the On-Farm Modernization component, which was
executed through SAGARPA/FIRCO and was aimed essentially at modernizing farms and systems in
Irrigation Units (LU) and not in the IMs of selected IDs, implementation was equally, highly satisfactory.
4.     Second, there was a delay in project implementation due to the financial crisis that the country
underwent during the early years of project execution and adverse weather conditions between 1995 and
1998. The latter forced CNA to make special investments in emergency works, displacing resources
earmarked for other purposes. As a result the Loan was amended to extend the closing date by nearly two
years.
5.     Third, the droughts that affected a large part of the river basins significantly decreased water
availability. Consequently, the project's economic benefits were lower than expected, although
improvements in water efficiency, which occurred as a result of the works financed by the project, helped to
ameliorate the effects of droughts.
- 32 -



6.     Finally, the expected diversification of crops was affected negatively by the official policy of
subsidizing basic grains, which artificially raised the profitability of farming subsidized crops, to the
detriment of those crops with greater potential for generating economic and social benefits. The main
impact of the subsidy was the distortion of price signals.
7.     The project's area of intervention may be grouped into three categories:
B. Areas of intervention of Component 2
(i) 400,000 ha in the 44 IMs initially selected as the project area, where Component 2, "Minor Network
Improvements," was implemented; wherein the most important activity was the purchase of machinery.
However, the inclusion of an additional 1,100,000 ha decreased the amount of investments initially
earmarked for the 400,000 ha.
(ii) with the inclusion of an additional 1,100,000 ha in 17 IDs, the total project area in which Component 2
was implemented expanded to 1,500,000 ha. In these additional 1,100,000 ha, the activities consisted
almost exclusively of support for the purchase of modem machinery for O&M.
C. Areas of intervention of Component 3
(iii) FIRCO executed this component in areas covering 226,000 ha in IUs of 13 states, benefiting about
22,000 producers organized under some 5,437 system modernization sub-projects.
8.     The information provided by PRODEP's M&E system was insufficient to estimate the project's
profitability. Thus, for the expost assessment of the project, an evaluation team
visited the States of Sinaloa, Baja California, Tamaulipas and Guanajuato to collect data from a
representative sample of subprojects.  The team visited off-farm works and independent on-farm
modernization projects, financed by PRODEP through its two principal components. In parallel, meetings
were held with various representatives of the regional offices of executing agencies and with leaders of
WUOs.
26/
Juan Morelli (Consultant FAO-CP), Adrian Hemandez and Jes4s Medina (CNA) and Francisco Medina (FIRCO).
D. Evaluation of the Minor Network Improvement Component
9.     This component, which was executed by CNA, disbursed US$177.2 million, of which 65% was
allocated for the machinery and equipment procurement subcomponent. 85% of the investment made by
CNA was concentrated in eight IDs, including: ID 010 (Culiacan - Humaya), 075 (El Fuerte), 076 (Valle
del Carrizo) and 063 (Guasave) in the State of Sinaloa; 014 (Rio Colorado) in Baja California; 005
(Delicias) in Chihuahua; 011 (Alto Rio Lerma) in Guanajuato; 025 (Bajo Rio Bravo) and 026 (Bajo Rio
San Juan) in Tamaulipas. The aim was to consolidate the process of decentralizing and privatizing
irrigation administration, as a continuation and complementing the activities started through the support of
the IDSP, and promoting private participation in the subsector. The fact that both projects (IDSP and
PRODEP) overlapped in the same area made it difficult to differentiate the impact of each project. In order
to quantify the benefits accruing only from the Minor Network Improvement component, the different
impacts of the activities of PRODEP in several IMs, where there may have been a greater concentration of
investments than in the other IMs of the same ID, were analyzed. Thus, three IDs where there were greater
PRODEP investments were analyzed in greater detail. The following are the main conclusions of this
analysis.
- 33 -



10.   ID 075 - Rio Fuerte, Sinaloa. In this ID, PRODEP invested M$131.1 rmillion, of which M$76.9
million were used to purchase modem machinery delivered to WUOs. Of the total amount invested, around
M$70.8 million (54%) were concentrated in 4 of the ID's 13 modules, including M$37.2 million used for
machinery (48% of this category's total). The area of the 4 modules  represents about 70,000 ha, 28% of
the IDs' 245,000 ha. In the 4 modules, around 3,830 ha were leveled, 1,670 km of pipes for on-farm
drainage were installed, and 2,140 ha were recovered for production (land earlier abandoned due to
salinity). To estimate the impact of these investments on production, a comparative analysis of the
evolution of planted areas and of yields in the 4 aggregated modules and in the rest of the ID was
conducted. During project implementation, the following changes, not attributable to PRODEP, took place
in the ID: (i) the total area under cultivation showed a slight increase of about 8% between 1995/96 and
2000/01, both in the ID and in the 4 aggregated modules, an increase which resulted from the start-up of
operations of the Huites dam; and (ii) the area under vegetable crops (tomato, potato and chilies) increased
by 17% throughout the ID. However, in the four PRODEP modules, a 62% increase in vegetables was
achieved compared to the 1994 level (covering an area of 8,000 ha), in contrast to a much lower growth
(5%) for other modules of the ID.
27/ Modules I-I Guasave, TI-I Leyva Solana, II-2 Ruiz Cortinez and IH-3 Batequis.
11.    The conclusion drawn from these observations is that the works carried out with PRODEP in the 4
modules of ID 075, besides bringing about an increase in the efficiency of water distribution and expansion
of areas under irrigated agriculture, also created more favorable conditions than in the rest of the ID's
modules for producing higher-value but more intensive farming crops such as tomato and chilies
12.   It was conservatively estimated that the incremental benefit attributable to PRODEP in the 4 IMs
of the ID would be around M$40 million per year and the IRR of investments made would be around
19.4%, with a Net Present Value (NPV) of incremental benefits of about M$68 million. To quantify this
impact, it was estimated that without the project, the above-mentioned vegetable crops would have
increased, in the 4 modules analyzed, from 4,800 ha to about 6,500 ha (35%), instead of the current 8,000
ha (66%) with project. These criteria significantly underestimated the impacts because: (i) it was assumed
that the area of vegetables without project had increased by 35%, when outside the PRODEP modules this
area only increased by 5%; and (ii) PRODEP, through the provision of machinery to all IMs, also
contributed towards improving the productive situation which, with the methodology used, assumes that
this would have occurred even without the project. Table A3.1 shows the production value and net income
generated with and without PRODEP in the 4 modules analyzed and the result of the investment of about
M$70 million (current) out of the programmed M$135 million. The M$15 million additional private
investment made in introducing pressurized irrigation systems in these IMs, for the development of
additional 1,500 ha of vegetables, was also considered.
13.    DR 063 - Guasave, Sinaloa. In this district M$42.1 million (current) were invested, of which
M$19.5 million (46%) were used for the purchase of machinery delivered to users. Of the total amount
invested, around M$14.1 million (33.5%) were concentrated in the Tetameche module covering 19,964 ha,
or 18% of the 107,036 ha under the ID's 5 modules. The total investment in this module includes M$5
million in machinery (35% of the category). In this IM, around 121 ha were leveled and 108 km of pipes
were installed for on-farm drainage, recovering 365 ha that were previously unproductive due to their level
of salinity. The investment per hectare totaled M$700 (current) compared to about M$320 in the rest of
the ID. To estimate the impact that these investments had on production, a comparative analysis was made
between the evolution of planted areas and of yields in the module with high investment and the evolution in
the other 4 IMs, considering that: (i) the total planted area showed a decrease of approximately 10% since
-34-



1994/95, both in the modules that benefited and in the rest of the ID, due to the strong reduction in the
availability of water in the reservoir in recent years; (ii) the entire ID shows a very high presence of
horticultural crops (3% to 4% of the area); this percentage is even lower in the module analyzed, showing
an absolute predominance of basic grain crops; (iii) corn occupies nearly 50% of the area and wheat
showed the greatest increase in the module, which increased from 2,650 ha to 5,500 ha between 1995 and
2001. For both crops, the project activities gave rise to the increase in yields that were higher than those of
the rest of the district. In the rest of the district, the land under corn fell from 16,800 ha to 14,700 ha.
14.    The economic profitability of the investments made - expressed in constant currency for the year
2002 - shows an IRR of only 11.5% and a negative NPV of flow of benefits and costs (with a 12%
discount rate), which means that the present value of the incremental benefits generated would be inferior to
the costs incurred by the program. This result underestimates the benefits gained from support provided to
the rest of the IDs. However, the result is marginal due to the dominance of basic crops in the IM and the
observed low level of diversification to greater-value crops, a situation promoted by high levels of subsidies
for basic grains through PROCAMPO. Table 3A.4 shows the estimated evolution of the value of
production in the Tetameche-Guasave module with project and that which presumably would have
occurred without project.
15.    ID 010 - Culiacan - Humaya, Sinaloa. In this ID, PRODEP-CNA investment was around
M$190 million (current), distributed among all of the district's modules, with no intensity of activities in any
particular IM. Of the total amount invested, 48% was used for purchase of machinery for conservation,
maintenance and recovery of hydraulic infrastructure and for land recovery and leveling. The addition of the
new machinery permitted the TM to achieve an optimum use of the equipment in rehabilitation of physical
infrastructure, which has lowered O&M costs and improved operation. However, the PRODEP-CNA
strategy in this ID was aimed at evenly distributing resources among nearly all IMs to meet their most urgent
needs, in response to pressure by the WUOs and the need to provide them with modern machinery for
improving O&M. These factors did not permit the quantification of the impact of investments made, either
by analyzing the evolution of productive parameters among IMs benefiting from the project or unassisted
modules, or by analyzing the O&M cost savings resulting from the proper mix of machinery.
16.    The evaluations of the three districts analyzed may be summarized as follows:
(i)   In the two cases studied, where the project has concentrated its efforts, the IRR varied between
19.5% and 11.5% (the latter with a negative NPV, calculated with a 12% discount rate). The difference in
profitability seems to be closely related to diversification towards high-value crops.
In cases where efforts are scattered among all the modules in the same district, the overlapping of the
effects of the IDSP makes it difficult to understand the differential impacts of PRODEP.
17.    The scattered results obtained and the absence of reliable data makes it difficult to estimate the
profitability of the investments under this component. Nevertheless, there are several factors that would
indicate that the profitability of the investment under this component was significantly lower than what was
estimated during project preparation. However, it is evident that investment under this component allocated
for the purchase of machinery for O&M, had a positive effect through a reduction in O&M costs and an
increase in water efficiency, which in turn resulted in increased yields of traditional crops.
In addition, the execution of this component independently of the on-farm improvement component, the thin
distribution of resources and delays in execution may have resulted in lower profitability than that
estimated by the SAR Finally, drought and the effect of subsidies may also have contributed to the
- 35 -



investment's low profitability.
D. 2 Financial assessment
18.    As was to be expected, estimates of financial profitability show much more positive results, since
what is considered cost to farmers is limited to 50% of the cost of investments. Farmers' effective
contribution in the purchase of construction materials and machinery was limited to 50% of these costs.
These financial flows are calculated in Tables A3.3 (ID 075 Rio Fuerte) and A3.5 (ID 063 Guasave,
Tetameche Module). The rate of return and the NPV at financial prices are calculated in Tables A3.6 and
A3.8, respectively.
19.    For the Rio Fuerte ID the analysis shows an IRR of 35% and an NPV of M$99 million; for the
Guasave ID the values are 68% and M$67 million, respectively. It is significant that, in economic terms,
Rio Fuerte showed a higher profitability than that of Guasave (19% compared to 12%), while in financial
terms the situation is reversed and Guasave is more profitable than Rio Fuerte (68% compared to 35%).
This is because in Guasave there exists a greater proportion of basic grain crops which have high subsidies,
while vegetables receive none.
Basic grains have an average conversion factor of 0.7 while In vegetables the factor is 1, i.e., the economic and financial price
coincide.
E. Evaluation of On-Farm Improvement Component
20.    The disbursements made through FIRCO under this component totaled US$68.5 million, which
represent 40% of the total disbursements of the IBRD loan (US$170 million). PRODEP resources
leveraged an investment of over US$200 million between 1996 and 2000. Farmers' contributions were
around 65% of this investment. These resources were allocated to support producers in improving their
irrigation system with technical assistance in efficient use of water, crop productivity and diversification
towards more profitable crops. As part of the Alianza para el Campo program, eligible irrigation systems
were modernized in the States of Aguascalientes, Northern and Southern Baja California, Coahuila,
Chihuahua, Durango, Guanajuato, Queretaro, Nuevo Le6n, Sinaloa, Sonora, Tamaulipas and Zacatecas.
21.    In this component, PRODEP financed, on a cost-sharing basis (up to a ceiling of 50% and
averaging 36% of the cost of subprojects financed) for the purchase and installation of irrigation equipment
(conduction and drainage pipes), as well as for the purchase of high- and low-pressure irrigation and
ferti-irrigation equipment and systems (tanks, filters, meters and gauging structures). The installation of
this equipment was instrumental in improving efficiency in the management of water for irrigation and in
introducing and applying production technologies. Through this component 5,437 subprojects were
financed, benefiting 22,046 producers and covering a total area of 226,000 ha. FIRCO provided (and had
a good database of) the necessary information to estimate the component's profitability. Thus, for the ex
post evaluation of this component, various types of subprojects were analyzed. Representative models
were selected in a non-random manner. Later, the results of the representative models were considered,
based on their relative weight out of the total investment made. The amount of investment financed by type
of subprojects and the State which benefited are detailed in Table 3.A.1.
22.    Based on the distribution of investment in the PRODEP-FIRCO project area, 28 models were
selected, covering a wide range of types of activities supported and States in which they are located. Four
correspond to Baja California, 3 to Sinaloa, 2 to Sonora, 5 to Tamaulipas, 5 to Chihuahua, 5 to the Regi6n
Lagunera and the last 4 to the other beneficiary States. On the other hand, 6 models are for drip irrigation
(4 belonging to the private sector and 2 to the social sector); 3 are for sprinkler irrigation (2 belonging to
- 36 -



the private sector and 1 to the social sector); 6 are for floodgate irrigation (4 belonging to the private sector
and 2 to the social sector); 4 micro-sprinkler models (2 in each sector); 3 are central pivot models belonging
to the private sector; 2 conduction models (1 in each sector) and 1 model corresponds to combined
irrigation systems. For each model, partial budgets were prepared for the crops produced, including the
situation before and after the project and farm models including the before and after situations, with their
investments and the program's incentive, for the purpose of assessing the financial and economic impact of
the program's support. The following table summarizes the main parameters and results of representative
farm models of the subprojects analyzed.
Table A.3.1. Investments (in M$ millions) by Type of Sub-projects of the Ferti-Irrigation
Program/PRODEP and by geogra hic location.
State:             Sinaloa Sonora Baja       Chihuahua Tamaulipas Regi6n      Others    Total
Type of Irrigation              _  California                  _   Lagunera
Private drip       171.5   80.3    14.7                22.5        8.7         23.5     321.2
Social drip        13.9            15.0                                                 28.9
Private tape               113.8   75.6                15.4                             204.8
Social tape                20.7    77.2                                                 97.9
Private sprinkling  29.1                     22.5      34.5                   46.2      132.3
Priv. micro-sprinkling                       52.3      25.1                   35.7      113.1
Soc. micro-sprinkling                        15.7      51.6                             67.3
Private floodgates                           34.7      10.9        64.7       36.9      147.2
Social floodgates                                       18.0       91.5       67.4      176.9
Priv. central pivot                          48.4                  11.8        47.3     107.5
Private conduction                                                 12.4                 12.4
Social conduction                                                  6.5                  6.5
Combined                                                           13.2                 13.2
Others             25.5    78.8    20.0      65.4      21.9        46.2        73.0     331.3
Total              240.0   293.6   202.5     239.0     199.9       255.0       330.0    1,760.0
23.     As shown in the table below, with the exception of one case, the financial and economic results of
those farms are all positive, with financial results notably higher than economic results as a consequence of
the profitability of this type of investment and the incentive offered by the program. The support from the
program was around 36% of the cost of investment in the modernization of the irrigation system, varying
among different cases from 14% to 66% of the total cost. The family incomes of beneficiaries increased on
average from M$108,000 to M$233,000 per year (216% with respect to the without project level). These
positive results are in accordance with what was to be expected, since modem systems allow not only
significant savings of water and of pumping costs (most of these projects correspond to beneficiaries in IUs
that use groundwater), but the TA permitted a more timely application of water and fertilizers that is suited
to the physiological needs of crops and also allowed the diversification of production. In fact, the highly
positive financial results are due to in large part to the support by the PRODEP-FIRCO component. The
principal crops are fruits and vegetables, with the area under basic grains being a significantly smaller
proportion of the total area.
- 37 -



Table A.3.2. Farm Models of Beneficiaries of PRODEP Ferti-Irr aion Pr am
Type of Project/State    Farm (ha)     Investment       Incentive      [DR (A) nnual income
l                                     (thousands of M$)
(in thousands of M$)            Financial Economic     "without         "with
project"         project"
Private dnp BC           20            130.0            45.6           81.1      53.6         127.6            197.3
Social dnp BC            10            123.8            27.5            8.0      45.0         65.0             121.2
Pnvate tape BC           30            239.0            84.0           51.6      35.2         276.2           371.1
Soctal tape BC           38            195.7            92.7            4.9      35.4         62.5            65 3
Pnvate sprinkling SIN    200           1500.0           518.2          126.0     89.0         747.0            405.0
Private dnp SIN          22            220.0            65.0           32 5      23 4         141 6            194.3
Social dnp SIN           7             172.0            23.7            5.0      32.4         6.1             81 1
Pnv. tape SON             15           158 0            45 0           55.0      42 4         67.2            162.8
Pnv. floodgates SON      8             17.3             8.6            20.2      -12.7        29.4            31.6
Soc. mnirospr. TAM       4             35.5             10 4           33.0      23.6         30.4            38 8
Priv. microspr. TAM       17           175.5            48.2            7.9      20.0         110.0            146.3
Pnv. spnnkling TAM       35            436.5            96 3           31.7      26.0         180.8            95.9
Priv. centml pivot TAM   6             43.3             19 4            2 5      28.5         11 5             6.3
Pnv. dnp TAM             25            382.2            106.6          115.0     82.7         387.6            703.5
Priv. mlcrospr. CHIH     22            189,0            77.8           145.0     47.5         73.2             160.0
Soc. microspr. CHIH      10            96.9             36.0           71.0      47.9         45.6             82.4
P. floodgate CHIH         35           269.0             104.0          3.2      19.2         11.4             64.9
S. floodgate CHIH        55            411.9            185.4          56.7      19.8         7.9               2.0
P. centrl pivot CHIH      17           57 2             25 0           293.0     62 4         8.6              59.6
P. conduction LAG        72            901.0            254.0          39.7      18.0         59.2              65.9
S. conduction LAG        2             14.3             6.9             2.7      21.6         5.7               7
P. combmed LAG           25            200.0             88.0          122.0     34.9         47.7             96 9
P. floodgates LAG         3            19.4              8.9           88.9      36.9         33.5              3 6
S. floodgates LAG         25           127.4             57.0          103.0     44.4         220.5            302.4
P. floodgates Others     20            58.9              26.5          39.1      99           74.5             106.7
P. central pivot Others  60             98 3             261.9          3.1       3.1         120.4             14.3
Pv. sprink. Others      19           189.0             85.0          44.5       3.4         60.2             106.1
Weighted average         13.8           0.5              29.0          40.0      35.0         61.7             93.7
24.      The only model that showed a negative economic IRR (-12.7%) was related to the model that
represents the 9 private sector farms which incorporated floodgate irrigation in Sonora, even though these
farms may be obtaining positive financial results (an IRFR of 20% and a 7% increase in family incomes).
The reason for this apparently contradictory result is that these producers, who have farms of about 8 ha,
use on average 6 ha for wheat crops whose economic profitability is low. However, with PROCAMPO
support, the price that the producers receive for their wheat product continues to be attractive in continuing
the production of the same.
25.      To evaluate the entire On-Farm      Improvement component, the prevailing situation existing in the
representative models for each type of project and each State was projected for the entire component, using
as a basis the respective investment as shown in Table 3.A.1. Table 3.A.9 presents the result of this
projection, including production with and without project, investment and production costs, and resulting
possible outcomes. Through this analysis, the component's total investment would represent a total cost of
around US$200 million. The IRR for the on-farm modernization component executed by FIRCO was
estimated at 35% and the NPV at M$1,979 million.
F. Integrated evaluation of PRODEP
26.      From the analysis presented in the previous sections, it may be deduced that it is difficult to make
an economic assessment for the overall investments made by PRODEP's two principal components.
However, the economic analysis for the On-Farm             Improvement Component, although partial, allows
- 38 -



several relevant conclusions to be drawn. Indeed, it may be argued that the On-Farm Improvement
Component, which disbursed 83% of the appraisal estimate, showed satisfactory economic results because
it remained within the project's initial philosophy. In other words, this component managed to promote the
technological improvement of Mexican irrigation, and increase productivity of irrigated agriculture and
diversification towards high-value crops, which was what PRODEP originally intended to do.
27.    However, the economic result of the Minor Network Improvement component was lower than
expected, due to limitation measuring the direct impact machinery had on production and also scattered
investments made, in areas where technological and technical irrigation enhancement was not being
promoted, thus losing the effect of complementarity of the investment to the On-Farm Improvement for
improving the efficiency and profitability of irrigated agricultural production.  Thus, PRODEP's
experience seems to indicate that it makes no economic sense to continue investing in improvements in
irrigation infrastructure without complementary actions in on-farm activities.
- 39-



Table 3A.3
ID   Rio  Fuerte,  PRODEP
Modules
ECONOMIC           BUDGET
(AGGREGATED)
(In M$ Million) /a
Without Project                           With Project
1    2    3    4    5    6    7-15 1      2   3     4    5     6     7-15
Principal Product
Basic Grains                   469  566  541   431 415 512   512   469   566  541  423   411  517   518
Vegetables                     219  246  234   239 249 228   217   219   246  234  263   285  299   289
Industrlal Crops               78   14   23    24   10  10    10   78    14   23   24    10    10   10
Sub-total Principal Product      766  826  799   694 674 750   739   766   826  799  711   706  826   817
Production Costs
Investment
PRODEP                       -    -    -     -   -    -    -     51    30   19   9     13   2     -
Investments in Private lDrigation  -  3  -   8   1    3    -     -     6    -    15    3    7     -
Sub-total Investment Costs     -    3    -     8    1   3     -    51    36   19   24    16    8    -
Operating
Inputs AcqulDed
Inputs                     203  209  217   191  191  217  217  203   209  217  194   200   235  235
Tilling                    336  319   320  272 263 315    315  336   319  320  273   260   314  314
Costs IDrigation Water     28   27   28    23   22  27    27   28    27   28   23    22    27   27
Other Costs                39   44   47    51   54  54    54   39    44   47   54    63    72   73
Sub-Total Inputs AcqulDed    606  600  612   538 529 613    613  606   600  612  544   545   648  648
Labor
Labor                      63   64   63    55   56  66    66   63    64   63   56    57    68   68
Sub-total Operating Expenses   669  664  675   592 585 679    679  669   664  675  600   602   716  716
Sub-Total Production Costs       669  667  675   600 586 682    679  720   700  693  623   617   724  716
OUTFLOW                        669  667  675   600 586 682    679  720   700  693  623   617   724  716
Cash Flow                        96   159   124  94   88  68    60   46    126  105  87    89    102  101
TID = 19.4%, VAN = 68.20
\a Includes IDrigation modules 1-2,11-1, 11-2 and
11-3
-40 -



Table 3A. 4
ID   Guasave,  Module   11-2
Tetameche
ECONOMIC           BUDGET
(AGGREGATED)
(In M$ Million)
Without Project                                   With Project
1    2     3     4     5      6     7   8-15  1     2    3    4    5   6    7    8-15
Principal Product
Basic Grains                  153  160   179   135   103   129   107  106   153  160  179   137 106 151   133 132
Vegetables                    12   13    16    17    14    11    9    9     12   13    16   17   15  13   11   11
Industrial Crops              7    8     14    4     1     1     1    1     7    8    14   4    5    2    4    4
Sub-total Main Product          172  181   209   155   118    140  117 116    172  181  209   157 126 166 147 147
Production Costs
Investment
PRODEP                      -    -     -     -     -     -     -    -     16   6     2    3    0   1    -    -
Operating
Inputs AcqulDed
Inputs                    42   43    54    39    31    37    31   31    42   43    54  40   32   43   38   38
Tilling                   84   87    105   76    61    75    62   61    84   87    105  76   63  85   75   74
Costs lDrigation Water    8    8     9     7     6     7     6    6     8    8     9    7    6   9    8    8
Other Costs               1    1     2     2     2     2     2    2     1    1    2     2   2    2    2    2
Sub-Total Inputs AcqulDed   135  139   170   124   99    120    100 99    135   139  170  125 104 140 123 122
Labor
Labor                     15   16    19    14    11    14    13   12    15   16    19   14   11  16   15   15
Sub-totalProductionExpenses   150  155   189   138   110   134    113 111   150   155  189  139 115 155 138 137
Sub-TotalProductionCosts        150  155   189   138   110    134   113 111   165   160  191  142 115 156 138 137
OUTFLOWS                      150  155   189   138   110   134    113 111   165   160  191  142 115 156 138 137
Cash Flow                       23   26    20    17    8      6     5   5     7     21   18   15   11   10  9    10
IDR = 11.5%, VAN = -0.92
-41 -



Table 3A.5: ID Rio Fuerte, Modules PRODEP
CREDIT ANALYSIS (In $ Million) la
With project
1     2      3      4     5      6     7     8     9     10    11    12    13    14     15-
20
Investment Costs to be Financed   56.2  33.1   20.9   9.5   14.5   2.0   -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -
Farmer's Own Resources          -     6.0    -      15.0  2.5    6.5
Total Investment Costs to be     56.2   39.1   20.9   24.5  17.0   8.5
Financed
Financing %                       50.0  50.0   50.0   50.0  50.0   50.0
Disbursements on principal        28.1  16.6   10.4   4.7   7 3    1 0
Principal for 1st year Works    -     -      34     3.6   3.8    4.0   4.2   4 4   4.6   -
Principal for 2nd yearWorks     -     -      -      2.0   21     2 2   2 4   2 5   2 6   2.7
Princdpal for 3rd year Works    -     -      -      -     13     1.3    1.4   15    16   16    17    -
Principal for 4th year Works    -     -      -      -     -      0 6    06   0 6   0.7   07    0.7   0.8
Principal for 5th year Works    -     -      -      -     -      -      0.9  0 9    1 0  1.0   1 1   1 1   12    -
Sub-Total Disbursements           -     -      3.4    5.7   7.2    8.2   9.5   10.1   10.6  6.2  3.7   2.1   1.4   0.2
Interest for I st year Works    -      1 4   1 4    1.2   1 1    0 9    0 7  0 5   02    -     -     -     -     -2
Interest for 2nd year Works     -     -      0.8    0 8   0.7    0.6    0 5  0.4    0 3  0.1
Interest for 3rd year Works     -            -      0     0 5    0 5    0 4   0 3   0 2  02    01    -
Interest for 4th year Works     -     -      -      -     0 2    0 2    0 2  0 2    0.1  0.1   01    0.0
Interest for 5th year Works     -     -      -      -     -      0 4    04   0 3    0.3  02    02    0.1   01    -
Sub-Total Interest Paid           -      1.4   2.2    2.6   2.5    2.5    2.2   1.7   1.2  0.7   0.4   0.2   0.1    0.0
Long-Term Debt Outstanding
Debt Outstanding 1st year loan  281   28 1   24 6   210   17 2   13 2   9 0  48     -    -     -     -     -      -6
Debt Outstanding 2nd year loan  -      16.6  16 6   14.5   12.4  10.1   7.8  5.3    2.7  -
Debt Outstanding 3rd year loan  -            104    10.4  9 2    7.8    6 4   4 9   3 4  1 7
Debt Outstanding 4th year loan        -      -      4.7   4.7    4.1    3 5   2.9  2.2   1 5   0 8   -
Debt Outstanding 5th year loan  -     -      -      -     7 3    7 3    6 4   5 4   4 4  34    2 3   1.2
Sub-Total Debt                    28.1  44.6   51.6   50.7  50.7   43.6   34.1  24.0  13.5  7.3  3.6   1.5   0.2    -
Outstanding
Cash Carry Forward
Production Costs                  725 6  703 4  695 5  6241  618 7  724.2  716 3 716 3 716 3 716 3 716 3 716.3 716.3  716 3 716.3
Disbursements on Principal        28 1   16.6  10.4   4.7   7 3    1 0    -     -          -     -     -                  -
Grants                            281   16.6   10 4   4.7   7 3    10     -                      -     -            -     -
Residual Financing Required       669 4  670 3  674 6  614.6  604 1  722 2  716 3 716.3 716.3 716 3 716 3 716.3 716.3  716.3 716.3
Contribution from own Savings     2.1   -      -      -     -      -      -     -     -     -    -     -     -      -     -
Net Financing RequiDed            667 3  670 3  674 6  614.6  604 1  722.2  716 3 716.3 716.3 716 3 716 3 716.3 716 3  716 3 716 3
Carry Forward %                   100 0  100 0  100 0  100.0  100.0  100 0  100 0 100.0 100 0 100 0 100 0 100.0 100.0  100 0 100.0
Transfer from Previous Period     667.3  670.3  674.6  6146  604 1  722.2  716.3 7163 716.3 716.3 7163 716.3 7163   7163 7163
Transfer to Next Perlod           670.3  674 6  614.6  604.1  722.2  716 3  716 3 716 3 716 3 716 3 716 3 716.3 716 3  716.3 716 3
Financing Summary
Grants                          281    16.6  10 4   4.7    7 3   1.0    -     -     -     -    -            -        -
Disbursements on Long Term Principal  28.1  16.6  104  47  73    1 0             -     -    -        -     -      -     -
Transfer from Previous Period   667 3  670.3  674.6  614 6  604.1  722 2  716 3 716 3 716 3 716.3 716.3 716.3 716 3  716 3 716 3
Total Inflows                     725.6 703.4 695.5 624.1    618.7 724.2 716.3 716.3 716.3 716 3 716.3 716.3 716.3 716.3 716.3
Long-Term Repayments            -      1.4   57     8.2   98     107    11.6  118   118   69   40    22    1.4    0.2
Transfer to Next Period         670.3  674.6  614.6  604 1  722 2  716 3  716.3 716 3 716.3 716 3 716 3 716.3 716.3  716 3 716 3
Total Oufflows                    670.3 676.0 620.3 612.4 732.0 727.0 727.9 728.0 728.0 723.2 720.3 718.5 717.7 716.4 716 3
Net Financing                       55.2  27 4   75.2   11.7  -113.3 -2.8  -11 6 -11.8 -11.8 -6 9  -4.0  -2.2  -1.4   -0.2  -
-42 -



Tabbe 3A.
6
ID Rb Fuue,f PRODEP Modules
AWCLBUDGEr
Qn $ Mon) /a
w                                                   VWh
1     2    3     4     5     6    7-2D 1      2    3     4     5     6    7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14   15.2D
B   eG                       66i66 834A 7884 6421 619.1 7ea1 7601 6666 8344 7884 63a8 6124 764.7 7660 7662 7662 7662 7662 7882 7882 76E2 7662
aqx                          21a7 2464 234.1 231 2494     A7a 2170 2167 2464 2341 AU       284   299.1 289.1 281 289.1 2891 289.1 289.1 289.1 2eQ1 2891
b us   cop                78a4  13a8  23.5 2A^0  9.6   R.6  R6    7a4   13aa  235  23,8  9.1   1Q0L  101  lal   1Ql 101    1a.1  1a1i  1al   1a1   la1
Nub4aWIf1Pmcdoi                963.7 1094.6 1060 9052 878.1 997.5 986.7 9637 1094  1060 918.1 907.  1073. 10652 10553 1065. 10E54 1065.4 10554 10654 10654 1gs4
8                4
P-40DEP                     -                                       562  33.1  20.   9.5   14.5  2.0  -
hestrrPz       n RP.St-          ao    -     7.5   13   3.2   -     -    6.0   -     150   25    6.5
swAmirweshlertCSS            -     30    -     75   1.3   3.2  -     562   39.1  2D.9  24.5  17.0 8a    -     -
blpLft                    2032 209.0 217.0 191.3 1906 2174 217A 2M2 200 217.0 1945 19.5 2346 2346 234          2345234B 2345 2346 2345 234B 2345
Tlk                       3360 319A 32a     2723 262B 3149 314.9 330    3194 32.0 2725 29M2 314.1 3141    314.1 314.1 314.1 314.1 3141 314.1 3141 314.1
Cos Dm        bWa.v       28.3  27.3  282  229   220   27.0 27.0  283   273   28,2  229  21.7  270   27.0  270  27.0 270   27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0
ouCcs                     38.   44.2  46.5  51.0 53.7  s7   53.7  38.8  442   46.5  54.0  632  723   728  728   728 728    728   728   728   728   728
&6-ToW k        5Abad       6064 60Q0 6117 5375 s78.    61a1 613.1 606A 60o 611.7 54a8 544B 6479 6485 648.5 6485 648.5 64835 648L5 6495 648S 6485
Labor                     6a30  64.3 629   545   5a2   658 65.8 630     643  62a   55.8  57.0  6758 678   67S   675   67.  67.   67a   6758 6758   672
sub4opaE     GCos            669A 664.3 674B 592.1 585.1 6789 678.9 66A    6643 674B s5      6016 715.7 7163 7163 716.37163 716.3 7163 716.3 716.3 7163
9b-ToW Pi     1n Coo           66A 6673 6745 5995 5664 68z1 678.9 725B 7034 6955 624.1 6167 7242 7163 7163 716.3 716.3 716.3 7163 7163 7163 7163
OJIRDA                       669A 6673 674B 599.6 5684 681 6789 725B 7034 695.5 624.1 618.7 7242 7163 7163 7163 716.3 7163 716.3 7163 7163 7163
CashRw9ebaFheFg                294.4 4273 371A 3056 291.7 315A 307.8 2382 3912 3505 2B4D 2863 3495 3489 3490D 3491 3491 349.1 3491 3491 349.1 349.1
Notlrui*                       -     -73  75.1  132 -47     32   -     552   27A  752    11.7 -113  -2.8  -115  -11,8 -11  -69  .4.0  -22   -1A   402  -
CahRwAherFh      ci&           294A 419.9 4464 318.8 1960 316B 307.8 zs4 4185 425.7 3058 175.1 3468 3373 3373 3373 3422 345.1 3469 3477 348.9 349.1
alTgo h         N In tlh
Fam  Famiy R s   Aftr          294A 419.9 4464 318.8 195.0 3185 307.8 291A 4185 4257 35.8 175.1 346.8 3373 3373 3373 3422 345.1 3469 3477 3489 349.1
Fgac
DR = 351%q A=
99.48
\a bir ;s IDt(xfon ni      es2, - i, 11-2 aid 1W3
-43-



Table 3A 7:  ID Guasave, 11-2 Tetameche Irrigation Module
CREDIT ANALYSIS (In S Million)
1     2      3       4      5      6       7    8      9     10    11    12    13      14     15to20
PRODEP Long-Term Financing  17.2  6.2    2.0     3.3    0 3     1.3                -           -     -
Financing %                     50 0  50 0   50 0    50 0   50.0   50 0
Disbursements on principal      8.6   3.1    1.0     1.7    0.1    0.6     -
Principal Paid Works year     -     -       11     11     12      12     13    14    14                              -
Principal Paid Works year 2   -     -      -       0 4    0 4     0 4    0 4   0 5   0 5   0        -        -       -
Principal Paid Works year 3         -      -       -      01      01     01   0.1    0.2   0 2   0 2
Principal Paid Works year 4   -     -      -       -               2     0 2   0.2   0 2   0 2   0 3   0 3
Pnncipal Paid Works year      -     -              -              -      0 0   0 0   0 0   0 0   0 0   0 0    0 0
Principal Pald Works year6    -         -          -      -       -      -     01    0.1   0 1   0.1   0.1   01      0 '
Sub-Total Payments              -     -      1.1     1.5    1.7    2.0     2.1   2.3   2.4   1.0   0.5   0.4   0.1     0.1      -
Interest Works year1          -     0 4    0 4     0 4    0 3     0 3    0.2   01    01    -     -     -      -      -
Interest Works year 2         -     -      0 2     0 2    01      01     01    01    0 0   0 0
Interest Works year 3         -            -       01     01      0 0    0 0   0 0   0 0   0 0   0 0
Interest Works year 4                   -          -      01      01     01    01    01    0 0   0 0   0 0
InterestWorksyear5and6        -     -      -       -      -       00     00    00    00    00    00    00     00
Sub-Total Interests Paid        -     0.4    0.6     0.6    0.6    0.5     0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0     0.0
Long-Term Debt Outstanding
Works ysr i                   8 6   86      7.6    6 4    5 3     41     28    1 4         -         -        -          -
Worksyear2                          31     3.1     27      23     19     15    10    05
Worksyear3                                 I10     10     09      08     06    05    03    02
Works year 4                                       17      17     15     1.2   10    0 8   0 5    0 3                .
Works yearS                      -                 -       01     0 1    01    01    01    01     00    00
Worksyear6                    -     -      -       -      -       06     06    06    05    04     03    02    01
Sub-Total Outstanding           8.6   11.7   11.7    11.8   10.3    8.9    6.8   4.6   2.2   1.1   0.6   0.2    0.1
Cash Carry Forward
Production Costs                1668 160.8   191 2   1425   115.5   156.6  1380 1372   1372  137.2 137.2 137.2 1372    137.2  137.2
Disbursements on Principal      8.6   3 1    1 0     1 7    0 1     06     -     -     -     -     -     -      -      -      -
Grants                          8 6   3.1    10      1 7    01      06     -     -     -     -      -     -     -      -       -
ResidualFinancingRequlDed       1495 154.6   1892    1392    1152   1553   1380 137.2 137.2 1372    1372 137.2 1372    1372    1372
CarryForward%                   1000 1000    100.0   1000    1000   100.0  1000 1000 100.0 100.0    1000 1000   1000   1000    100.0
TransferfromPreviousPeriod      154.6 1546   189.2   1392    115.2  155.3  138.0 137.2 1372  137.2 137.2 1372   137.2  137.2   1372
TransfertoNextPeriod            1546 1892     139.2  1152    1553   1380   1372 1372   137.2 1372   1372 137.2 1372    1372    1372
Financing Summary
Grants                        8 6   31      1.0    1 7     01     06     -     -     -      -     -     -     -      -       -
Disbursements on Long-Term    8 6   3.1     1.0    1.7     0 1    0.6    -     -     -     -      -     -     -      -       -
Principal
Transfer from Previous Period  154 6 154 6  189.2  139 2   115 2  155 3  138 0 137.2 137 2 137 2  137.2 137 2 137.2   137 2  137 2
TotalInflows                    1718 1608    1912    142.5   115.5  1566   1380 137.2 1372   137.2  1372 1372   1372   1372    1372
Long-Term Repayments          -     0 4     1.6    21      2.3    2 5    2 5   2.6   2 6    1.1   0.6   0 4   01     01      -
Transfer to Next Period       154.6 189 2   139 2  115 2   155 3  138.0   137.2 137 2 137 2 137.2 137.2 137 2 137 2   137 2  137 2
TotalOufflows                   1546 1896    1408    117.3   1576   1405   1397 1398   1398  1383   137.8 1376  137.3  1373    1372
Not Financing                     172  -288    504    25.2    -42.1  16.1   -1.7  -26    -2.6  -1 1  -0.6  -04    -01    -01    -
- 44 -



Table 3.A8
ID Guasave, 11-2 Tetameche IDrigation
Module
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(In $ Million)
Without                                      With Project
Prolect
1     2     3      4      5     6     7     8 to 20  1    2     3    4     5      6     7      8 to20
Main Production
Basic Grains              2289 237.9   267.0  2026  1544   1922 1579 156.2    228.9 2379 2670 2065 161 2 231.4 1994       198.2
Vegetables                123   126    161    16.5  135    10.5  90   90      123   12.6  16.1  165   15.5  128   11.1    112
IndustrialCrops           67    80     141   36     1.2    1.2   12   12      67    80    141   36    48    25    38      38
Sub-Total Main Production   247 9 258.6  297 2  222.7  169 1  203 9 168 1 166 4  247.9 258 6 297 2 226.6 181 5 246 6 214 3  213.2
Production Cost
Investment
PRODEP                  -         -         -     -      -     .    -       17.2  6 2   2.0   3 3   0 3   1 3   -       -
Operating
Inputs AcqulDed
Inputs                415   43 2   53 6   39 3  306    37 0  310  30 7    41.5  43 2  536   398   324   431   37 8    37 6
Tilling               84 2  86 8   105.5  76 0  61.1   74.6  61.7  61 1   84 2  86 8  105.5 76 4  63 3  85.3  74 9    74 4
CostslDrigation Water  7.6  7.8    94     70    58     71    5.9  58      76    78    94    7.1   62    94    84      84
Othercosts             1 2   1 2   1 7    1 7   1 5    1.5   1 5  1 5     1 2   1.2   1 7   1.7   1 7   1 8   18      1 8
Sub-Total Inputs AcquiDed  134.5 139.1  170 1  123.9  98.9  120 2 100.0 99 0  134 5 139 1 170 1 125 0 103.7 139.7 123.0  122.2
HiDed Labor
Labor                 15.0  15 6   19.0   14 3  115    13 9  12 5  12.4   15.0  15 6  190   14 2  115   15 6  15 0    14 9
Sub-Total Operating Costs  149.5 154.6  1892  138.2  1104  1341 1125 1115     149.5 154.6 1892 139.2 1152   1553 1380     137.2
Sub-Total Production Cost   149 5 154 6  189 2  138 2  1104  134.1 112.5 111 5  166 8 160 8 1912 142 5 115.5 156 6 138.0    137.2
OUTFLOWS                  149 5 154.6  189.2  138 2  110 4  134 1 112 5 111 5  166 8 160 8 191 2 142 5 115.5 156 6 138 0  137 2
Cash Flow Before Financing  98 4  104.0  108.1  84 5  58 7  69.8  55 5  54 9    81.2  97 8  1061 84.1   66.0  90 1  76 3    76 0
Net Financing               -     -345   50.9  27.8   -237  216   1.1   -       17.2  -28.8  504  25.2  -42.1  16.1  -1 7   -2.6
Cash Flow After Financing   98.4  69.4   1590  112 3  349   91.4  56.6  54 9    984   690   1564 1093 239     106 2 74 6    73.4
Residual Value of
Transfer to Next Period    -            -     -      -     -     -     -       -0.0
Farm Family Benefits After  984   694    159.0  112 3  349  91 4  566   549     98.4  69.0  1564 1093 239     1062 746      734
Financing
DR = 67.6%, NPV = 66.63
-45-



Table 3A 9.
Evaluation of FIDCO Component
ECONOMIC              BUDGET
(AGGREGATED)
(In M$ Million)
Without Project                          With Project
1    2     3     4     548   9-20   1    2     3    4    5     6     7-8   9-20
Main Product
Basic Grains                  629   612   563   542   516   516   631  636   621  619   639   644  644   644
Vegetables                    3,456 3,741 3,741 3,692 3,692 3,692 3,456 3,818 4,010 4,056 4,155 4,190 4,190 4,190
Industrial Crops              178   189   189   189   189   189   178  196   201  206   211   212  212   212
Fruits                        630   644  644    644   644   644   630  673   729  760   792   797  799   799
Other                         305   321   321   321   321   321   308  351   386  416   441   445  445   445
Sub-Total Main Product          5,197 5,507 5,458 5,388 5,362 5,362 5,203 5,675 5,948 6,057 6,238 6,289 6,291 6,291
Production Costs
Investment
Investments Alianza-FlDco   -     -    -     -      -     -     355  4     4    4     4     -    -     -
Operating
Inputs AcqulDed
Inputs                    2,238 2,247 2,247 2,247 2,247 2,247 2,254 2,338 2,392 2,442 2,491 2,492 2,492 2,492
Tilling                   837   838   838   838   838   838   831  817   805  793   782   782  782   782
Costs IDngation Water     8     8     8     8     8     8     7    7     6     6    5     5    5     5
Other Costs               135   142   142   142   142   142   135   143  146  148   149   150  150   150
Electncity                715   715   715   715   715   715   722   699  677   663  650   650  650   650
Sub-Total Inputs AcquIDed   3,571 3,588 3,588 3,588 3,628 3,650 3,586 3,654 3,684 3,717 3,785 3,786 3,786 3,806
Labor
Labor                     1,010 1,024 1,024 1,024 1,024 1,024 1,025 1,067 1,113 1,140 1,169 1,169 1,169 1,169
Sub-total Operating Expenses  4,581 4,612 4,612 4,612 4,652 4,674 4,611 4,721 4,797 4,857 4,954 4,956 4,955 4,975
Sub-Total Production Costs      4,581 4,612 4,612 4,612 4,652 4,674 4,966 4,725 4,801 4,861 4,958 4,956 4,955 4,975
Other Expenses
Other Expenses                -     -     -     -     -     -     -     351  351   351  351   -    -     -
OUTFLOWS                      4,581 4,612 4,612 4,612 4,652 4,674 4,966 5,076 5,153 5,212 5,310 4,956 4,955 4,975
Cash Flow                       617   895   846   776   710   688   237   598  796   845  928   1,333 1,336 1,316
IDR = 35.0%, VAN = 1,979.42
-46 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.),  Implernentation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                   Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/02/1991                1   IRRIGATION ENGINEER;
12/18/1991                1   IRRIGATION ENGINEER;
02/24/1992                1   IRRIGATION ENGINEER
03/13/1992                2   IRRIGATION ENGINEER;
INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
04/10/1992                1   IRRIGATION ENGINEER
07/09/1992                5   IRRIGATION ENGINEER (2);
CREDIT EXPERT; GROUND
WATER HYDROLOGIST;
WATER LEGAL SPECIALIST
10/23/1992                1   IRRIGATION ENGINEER
12/10/1992                1   IRRIGATION ENGINEER
03/14/1993                8   IRRIGATION ENGINEER (2);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST;
HYKO LAEYEDECKER
(EC lAG?) CREDIT EXPERT;
AGROECONOMIST;
LAWYER;
GEO-HYDROLOGIST
05/27/1993                1   IRRIGATION ENGINEER(2);
AGRONOMIST;
AGRICULTURAL
ECONOMIST;
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST;
CREDIT EXPERT
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/10/1993                2   SR. IRRIGATION
ENGINEER; Consultant
05/29/1994                3   SR. IRRIGATION ENGINEER;
CREDIT SPECIALIST;
IRRIGATION ENGINEER
07/14/1994                1   SR. IRRIGATION ENGINEER;
09/16/1994                1   CREDIT SPECIALIST
10/24/1994                3   PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS
OFFICER; PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST;
Supervision05/19/1995                2   SR. FINANCIAL EXPERT           HS           S
(1); SR. WATER RES. ENG.
(1)
11/28/1995                2   SR. FINANCIAL EXPERT (1);      HS           S
SR. WATER RES. ENG. (1)
09/25/1996                3   SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER          S           U
-47-



(1); SR. FINANCIAL EXPERT
(1); SR. WATER ES. ENG. (1)
04/11/1997                2   TASK MANAGER (1);              S            S
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
10/20/1997                2   TASK MANAGER (1);              S            S
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
07/13/1998                2   TASK MANAGER (1);               S           S
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
03/12/1999                4   SR AGRICULTURALIST (1);         S           S
ECONOMIST (1); WATER
RES. ENGINEER (1); AG.
ECONOMIST (1)
12/03/1999                4   SR AGRICULTURIST (1); AG.      S            S
ECONOMIST (1); SR
ECONOMIST (1); WATER
RES. ENGINEER (1)
04/28/2000                2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S           S
IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1)
11/03/2000                2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S            S
IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1)
04/03/2001                2   SR AGRIC./ TL (1); AG.          S           S
ECONOMIST (1)
11/19/2001                2   SR. AGRIJITL (1);               S           S
IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1)
ICR
04/24/2002                     IRRIGATION ENGINEER
(1); OPERATIONS
ANALYST (1)
06/6/2002                 1    AGRROECONOMIST;
IRRIGATION ENGINEER
(b) Staff:
- Stage of Project Cycle               Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks           US$ 000)
Identification/Preparation           15.3                     124.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                49.8                     100.2
Supervision                        146.93                     558.9
ICR                                   10*                     29.7*
Total                                 222                     812.8
* Estimate.
-48 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                      O H  OSUOM      * N  O NA
O Physical                             OH   *SUOM      ON   ONA
O Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
F Institutional Development            0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
OII Gender                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Private sector development           * H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
-49 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bankperformance                                Rating
I Lending                                         OHS OS       OU    OHU
O Supervision                                     OHS OS       OU    OHU
El Overall                                        OHS *OS      O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
O Preparation                                     OHS OS       Ou    O HU
O Government implementation performance           OHS OS       0 U    0 HU
E Implementation agencyperformance                OHS OS       OU     O HU
El Overall                                        OHS OS       OU     O HU
-50-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
CNA Several periodic progress reports and technical papers. See Annex 9.
Giuagle, M. M., 0. Lafourcade, and V. H. Nguyen (eds). 2001. Mexico: A Comprehensive Development
Agenda for the New Era. The World Bank. Washington, D.C.
Groenfeldt, D. & M. Svendsen (eds.). 2000. Case Studies in Participatory Irrigation Management. World
Bank Institute. WBI Leaming Resource Serious. No. 20247.
IBRD. 1993. Mexico: Review of Conditions for Encouraging Private Investment in Irrigation. Report No.
11774-ME.
Jones, William I.. 1995. OED. Operations Evaluation Study. The World Bank and Irrigation. Report No.
14908.
Loan Agreement. Loan Number 3704-ME. Dated June 10, 1994, between IBRD (the Bank) and Nacional
Financiera, S.N.C.
Palacios, Enrique V. 2000. Benefits and Second-generation Problems of Irrigation Management
Transfer in Mexico. In Groenfeldt, D. & M. Svendsen (eds.). 2000. Case Studies in Participatory
Irrigation Management. World Bank Institute. WBI Learning Resource Serious. No. 20247.
Several Aide Memoire, Back-to-Office reports;
The World Bank. 2002. Country Assistance Strategy. Report No. 23849-ME.
The World Bank. 1994. Staff Appraisal Report -- Mexico - On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks
Improvement Project. Report No. 12280.
The World Bank. 1993. Mexico: Review of Conditions for Encouraging Private Investment in Irrigation.
Report No. 11773-ME.
- 51 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR
I.     INTRODUCCITN
1.1 La Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA) ha elaborado el presente Informe de Cierre de Implantaci6n del
Prestamo (ICI) del Programa de Desarrollo Parcelario (PRODEP), para cumplir con los compromisos ante el
Banco Mundial referentes a la evaluaci6n del programa, derivados de la ejecuci6n del Prestamo 3704-ME
mediante el cual se financio parcialmente el PRODEP. El presente Informe de Terminaci6n contiene los
resultados delprograma durante el periodo 1994 - 2001.
1.2. El contenido del documento incluye el analisis de los aspectos considerados en los terminos de referencia para
la preparacion del Informe de Cierre de Implantaci6n (ICI) acordados con el Banco Mundial y se basa en las guias
del Banco para la preparaci6n de los Informes de Terminaci6n (ICR), adaptadas a las particularidades del
PRODEP. Adicionalmente el reporte incluye como anexos, datos de ejecuci6n del programa y documentos
relacionados.
HI.    DESCRIPCI6N Y OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
2.1.   El PRODEP se focaliza en los 17 Distritos de Riego que fueron transferidas a las AUs dentro del PSRD
(3419-ME). En este contexto, el PRODEP busca consolidar la descentralizaci6n y privatizaci6n de la
administraci6n del riego, fomentando la participaci6n privada en el subsector, enfocando las inversiones publicas
hacia acciones que favorezcan el bienestar publico y a reforzar la participaci6n de los grupos de productores
(AUs). El PRODEP complementa las inversiones del PSRD, cubriendo aproximadamente el 20% de la superficie
transferida a los usuarios con el PSRD, considerandose que el 80% de la superficie restante podria ser cubierta en
programas futuros.
2.2.   La operaci6n se aprob6 el 10 de junio de 1994, mediante el prestamo 3704-ME, con efectividad al 20 de
septiembre de 1994, por un monto original de US$ 200.0 millones para fmanciar un programa con un costo total
de US$ 568.8 millones. Con fecha original de culminacion al 31 de diciembre de 1999. Debido a factores
principalmente macroecon6micos, que se detallan mas adelante, el Programa se modific6; en cuanto al monto del
fmanciamiento del BIRF, con una reducci6n de 30.0 US$ millones; se replantearon las fuentes fmancieras locales;
y algunos componentes del programa original. Sin embargo se mantuvieron intactas las metas originales y el
monto total del programa (Anexo 1). Las modificaciones mencionadas quedaron formalizadas en el Convenio
Modificatorio al Contrato de Credito firmado el 27 de junio de 1997 y en la Enmienda emitida por el Banco con
fecha del 6 de junio de 1997. La fecha limite para desembolso de los recursos del pr6stamo, tambien se modific6,
quedando fialmente fijada para el 31 de marzo de 2002.
2.3.    Los Ejecutores fueron la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA), el Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del
Agua (IMTA) y el Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido (FIRCO); el Prestatario es Nacional Financiera; y el
Gobierno de Mexico como Garante.
2.4.    Los objetivos principales asignados contractualmente al programa son Contrato de Pr6stamo 3704-ME: (a)
asistir al Garante en la consolidaci6n de la transferencia de la administracion y operaci6n de los Distritos de Riego,
del sector piublico a las Asociaciones de Usuarios de agua; y (b) asistir a los agricultores de riego en los Distritos de
Riego participantes, en la diversificaci6n de su producci6n agricola y en el incremento de su eficiencia en el uso de
los recursos de suelo y agua.
2.5.    Componentes del programa. Los principales son: (a) Apoyo Tecnico; (b) Redes Interparcelarias; y (c)
Acciones Parcelarias.
2.6.   Componente de Apoyo Tecnico. Comunicaci6n y Cavacitaci6n. El objetivo principal es asistir a los
agricultores y a sus AUs de los DRs participantes, en el desarrollo y ejecuci6n de acciones interparcelarias y
parcelarias, a traves de la capacitaci6n del personal tecnico de apoyo y de los usuarios, difusi6n de las ventajas de
la tecnificaci6n del riego y del ahorro de agua, promoviendo el desarrollo profesional, la investigaci6n aplicada y la
participaci6n de los usuarios. A este componente le fue asignado el 7% del costo total del programa, el cual se
- 52 -



financiaria principalmente con recursos locales.
2.7.   Componente de Redes Interparcelarias. Comprende acciones para mejorar o completar las redes menores
de riego, incluyendo principalnente estudios de campo, obras de ingenieria, pequeiias redes de riego y drenaje,
equipos y estructuras para medici6n y control del agua y adquisici6n de maquinaria y materiales. Este componente
tiene asignado el 46% del costo total del programa, con fuente de recursos por parte del Banco y el GOM, con la
participaci6n de los usuarios a traves de las AUs en los disenios y ejecuci6n de obra civil.
2.8.   Componente de Acciones Parcelarias. Se refiere a obras de inversi6n a nivel parcelario fmanciado por los
agricultores con recursos propios o creditos de la banca privada. Incluye principalmente nivelaci6n de tierras,
sistemas de distribuci6n y drenaje parcelarios, dispositivos de medici6n y control de agua, sistemas de riego,
adquisici6n de materiales para revestimiento y entubado de las redes de distribuci6n parcelarias, fmanciados con
recursos del programa con el mismo esquema que los materiales correspondientes a las redes interparcelarias. Las
acciones parcelarias tienen asignado el 47% del costo total del programna.
2.9.   Modificaciones al Programa Original.- Durante 1995, el desarrollo de las acciones del PRODEP, en
cuanto a su ritmio de operaci6n anual, fuieron afectadas por varios factores, como: la crisis econ6mica del pais que
oblig6 al GOM a reducir significativamente las asignaciones presupuestales; la fuerte ola de desastres
climatol6gicos, que oblig6 a la CNA a atender con prioridad las zonas afectadas, lo cual redujo el ritmo de avance
del PRODEP; y la reestructuraci6n institucional de la CNA y el IMTA, cuyos cambios administrativos incidieron
en una disminuci6n transitoria de su capacidad de gesti6n.
2.10.  En julio de 1995, se cancel6 un monto de $US 30 millones del prestarno, replanteandose las
participaciones de las fuentes de financiamiento, sin modificar el monto total del programa por $US 568.8 millones
(Anexo 1). Asi el monto del prestamo qued6 en $US 170.0 millones con una reducci6n en participacion del Banco,
de 35.2% al 29.9%. La modificaci6n mas significativa se realiz6 en la participaci6n del sector privado, al pasar del
15.0% al 29.0%.
2.11.  En el mismo contexto de la readaptaci6n del programa, durante 1996 se incorpora el Programa Alianza
para el Campo (PAC), referentes al programa de ferti-irrigaci6n que a nivel parcelario esta realizando el FIRCO,
cuyas acciones son compatibles con los objetivos del PRODEP en el subcomponente de Acciones Parcelarias.
mII.   CUMPLIMIENTO DE OBJETIVOS.
1.     Objetivos principales
3.1.   Los avances en el cumplimiento de los objetivos conceptuales y alcances de las metas fisicas del programa,
a diciembre de 2001, es en general satisfactorio. No obstante que al inicio de su operaci6n, 1995-97, se presentaron
contingencias ex6genas al Ejecutor, de indole fisico y econ6mico, asi como reestructuras administrativo-
institucionales, que generaron un desfasamiento en el avance de las metas anuales programadas. Esta situaci6n se
resolvi6 con medidas de tipo fmanciero y operativo, mediante las cuales se normaliz6 la velocidad de operaci6n del
programa a partir de 1997, hasta la fecha.
3.2. En cuanto a las metas fisicas, en los Anexos 2 y 2A, se presentan los principales indicadores cuantitativos de
la implantaci6n, por componente y subcomponente, que respaldan los avances fisicos respecto a las metas
previstas, destacandose en general que las metas fisicas se cumplieron en los niveles previstos, lo cual denota una
adecuada planeaci6n y operaci6n del programa.
3.3.   Uno de los principales logros ha sido la participacion activa de los usuarios, lo cual result6 trascendente
para alcanzar los objetivos del programa. El exito ha sido de tal magnitud que actualmente la CNA tiene
solicitudes y propuestas de los usuarios, mayores a su capacidad presupuestal, sobre todo en el rubro de adquisici6n
de maquinaria y materiales para obra predial.
3.4. Los costos de operaci6n, mantenimiento y administraci6n de la infraestructura disminuyeron notablemente
debido a tres causas principales: la participaci6n directa de las AUs; la mejor eficiencia en la utilizaci6n de la
maquinaria mayor, otorgada en concesi6n a las AUs; y la introducci6n de maquinaria adecuada a la naturaleza de
-53 -



los trabajos.
A.     Apoyo Tecnico, Comunicacion y Capacitaci6n.
3.5.   A diciembre de 2001, se logr6 un promedio de cumplimiento de metas fisicas del 92%, de acuerdo a las
metas sefialadas por la CNA y del 120% con base en los indicadores SAR. El avance satisfactorio del componente,
permiti6 cumplir con sus objetivos fundamentales, beneficiando a los DRs participantes a traves de la capacitaci6n
de los usuarios, la difusi6n de las ventajas de la tecnificaci6n del riego y del uso eficiente del agua, promoviendo el
desarrollo profesional, la investigaci6n aplicada y la participaci6n de los usuarios. Los subcomponentes se
describen a continuaci6n (Anexos 2 y 2A).
3.6.   Estudios de Factibilidad (a).- Este subcomponente se ejecut6 al 100% de lo programado, en forma
adecuada y eficiente. Los estudios de factibilidad para los 46 m6dulos participantes inicialmente, se terminaron con
oportunidad en 1994. Al aprobarse la incorporaci6n al programa de otros 12 m6dulos, se elaboraron 45 estudios
adicionales principalmente durante 1998. En total para los m6dulos PRODEP se realizaron 89 estudios. Cabe
seiialar que a la fecha, adicionalmente la CNA tiene elaborados los estudios de factibilidad para todos los DRs del
pais.
3.7.   Capacitaci6n y Desarrollo Profesional (b).- Se realizaron diversos cursos, participando personal
profesional de la CNA y de otras entidades del Garante, de las AUs y los agricultores. Se ilevaron a cabo 85 cursos
en temas relacionados con el mejoramiento del riego.
3.8.   Fortalecimiento Institucional (c).- El fortalecimiento de las OIRyD se esta ilevando a cabo mediante la
aplicaci6n con cargo al PRODEP de los costos incrementales de operaci6n y la modernizaci6n y adquisici6n de
equipos. En el rubro se aplicaron gastos por un total de $PM 8.3 millones (Anexo 3). El rubro se ha operado con
resultados satisfactorios, ya que ha permnitido a las OIRyD contar con mejores elementos materiales de trabajo.
3.9.   En el rubro de adquisici6n de equipos electr6nicos y de transporte para laboratorios, se equiparon 29
unidades desde 1995, con lo cual se tuvo un avance al doble de lo previsto.
3.10.  Monitoreo de Campo y Estudios de Suelos (d).- Se registra un avance promedio del 88%, de acuerdo
con la programacion de la CNA. Se han realizado acciones en el terreno, como: 71,742 muestras para el analisis de
salinidad y 45,560 de calidad del agua; 8,745 aforos para los estudios de eficiencia del uso del agua; 95,564
lecturas de los niveles freaticos; 7,294 pozos de observaci6n; y 17 estudios cartogrificos y actualizaciones del
estudio agrol6gico. Asiniismo se elaboraron los respectivos informes anuales por cada DR.
3.11.  Comunicaci6n y Participaci6n (e).- Este subcomponente se ejecut6 mediante la creacion de Unidades de
Comunicaci6n de la CNA, en los DRs participantes, para la difusi6n hacia los agricultores, de tecnologia aplicada
sobre riego, administraci6n de parcelas, mercadotecnia y temas de aplicaci6n practica en agricultura de riego. El
programa de comunicaci6n se cumpli6 en su totalidad en las actividades relativas a la producci6n de audiovisuales,
desde 1995, se produjeron el 186%, de los programados. Adicionalmente a lo programado el IMTA llev6 a cabo
cursos cortos de capacitaci6n en materia de comunicaci6n.
3.12.  Investigaci6n Aplicada (f).- Se establecieron 76 proyectos piloto, como los m6dulos de Pabell6n, con
m6todo de entubado de riego en anillo y a baja presi6n, y en el Valle del Carrizo referente a un sistema de
pron6stico de riego en tiempo real, que han servido como ejemplos para su aplicaci6n en otros m6dulos.
3.13.  Consultorla y Asistencia Tecnica (g).- Se realizaron acciones con la finalidad de que los productores
cuenten con instrumentos para mejorar la producci6n agricola, como: la fmalizaci6n del Manual de Disefno de la
CNA para las redes interparcelarias; revisi6n de disefios de las redes interparcelarias; apoyo operativo continuo a
las AUs; instalaci6n de un sistema integral de interpretaci6n de levantamientos en las oficinas centrales de la
CNA; y el establecimiento de un sistema computarizado de administraci6n de cultivos, en los DRs participantes.
- 54 -



B.      Redes Interparcelarias.
3.14.  A diciembre de 2001, el cumplimiento es muy satisfactorio ya que en el componente se lograron los
objetivos y las metas fisicas originales desde 1999. En base a la reprogramacion realizada por la CNA el promedio
de avance de metas fisicas es actualmente del 87%. Se cumpli6 con el mejoramiento de las redes interparcelarias
cubriendo el Area total del programa, la cual se desarroll6 en una secuencia iniciada en base a los estudios de
factibilidad pam cada uno de los m6dulos participantes.
3.15.   Estudios de Campo, Servicios de Ingenierfa, Disefio y Supervisi6n (a).- Con el fm de ayudar a las AUs
a ejecutar la construcci6n de la red interparcelaria de riego, se llevaron a cabo acciones como levantamientos
topograficos, trazo y localizaci6n, perforaci6n y sondeo de pozos, diseflo y supervisi6n de construcci6n.
3.16.   Se reaiizaron los Disenios Ejecutivos para la red interparcelaria en un porcentaje de avance del 100%, en
funci6n de las necesidades programadas por la CNA. Se sigue avanzando en la conceptualizaci6n de la
modemizaci6n para promover condiciones de medici6n y control de agua, obtener una mayor flexibilidad en las
aplicaciones para mejorar la productividad, introducir en lo posible el uso de tuberfas para optimizar el uso del
agua y de la energia natural (desniveles del terreno) y recuperaci6n de suelos ensalitrados, entre otros.
3.17.   En cuanto a la Supervisi6n de la Obra Civil, asimismo se ha Ilevado a cabo en forma adecuada y
satisfactoria, siendo una actividad cotidiana del personal tecnico de las OIRyD y en continua coordinaci6n con las
AUs.
3.18.   Maquinaria de Construcci6n y Mantenimiento (b).- Se llev6 a cabo la provisi6n de la maquinaria y
equipos necesarios para ejecutar obras en la red menor y a nivel parcelario. Con base en estudios de factibilidad la
maquinaria se seleccion6 y distribuy6 a los m6dulos participantes. En la primera etapa, la CNA ejecut6
centralmente las licitaciones de los equipos en paquetes sujetos a licitaci6n pbhlica internacional, posteriormente
las licitaciones se realizaron a nivel local con la participaci6n de las AUs.
3.19.  El programa de adquisici6n de maquinaria ha superado significativamente las metas flsicas establecidas.
Destacan las maquinarias y equipos de nivelaci6n, para mejoramiento de terrenos y las requeridas para la
realizaci6n de obras de revestimiento y entubamiento. El beneficio y el imnpacto de este subcomponente fueron
inmediatos, ya que a partir del programa todas las tierras beneficiadas han sido niveladas. Las maquinarias
adquiridas alcanzan un total de 1,319 unidades, entre las cuales se encuentran; 160 transmisores laser, 285
escrepas, 155 cargadores frontales con retroexcavadora, 213 tractores agricolas y 239 caniones de volteo.
3.20.   La adquisici6n de maquinaria mayor y menor, en la primera etapa del programa, se realiz6 con el
procedimiento establecido de la modalidad consolidada y con un proceso manejado por Oficinas Centrales, lo cual
provoc6 inconvenientes en el terreno, de mantenimiento, reparaci6n y stock de refacciones.
3.21.  A partir de 1997 la adquisici6n de maquinaria, se descentraliz6 a los DRs incorporando la participaci6n
de las AUs. Los resultados son satisfactorios en cuanto a los tipos, cantidades y precios de la maquinaria adquirida.
Por otra parte, esta misma situaci6n provoc6 problemas en la documentaci6n de comprobaci6n de desembolsos, ya
que se suscitaron problemas de interpretaci6n de los formatos de licitaci6n por parte de los usuarios. La CNA ha
tomado las medidas al respecto, mediante la intensificaci6n de acciones en los aspectos de asistencia tecnica, el
Manual de Operaciones respectivo y la impartici6n de talleres sobre especificaciones tecnicas en donde incluso han
participado expertos del Banco.
3.22.  No obstante los inconvenientes antes mencionados, el subcomponente de adquisici6n de maquinaria en
general ha presentado resultados satisfactorios. De tal forma que se ha generado una alta demanda para participar
en el programa. En funci6n de la disposici6n de los agricultores de gran parte del pais, se acord6 con el Banco con
caracter de excepci6n, ampliar los beneficios del PRODEP en este subcomponente, a todos los DRs transferidos del
pais.
- 55-



3.23.  Materiales de Construcci6n, (c).- Este subcomponente se ejerci6 mediante la adquisici6n, asignaci6n y
distribuci6n de materiales de construcci6n y equipo hidraulico para obras en redes interparcelarias de distribuci6n
de riego. Asimismo, la CNA proporcion6 los servicios de asistencia tecnica para la adquisici6n, distribucion y
control de los materiales.
3.24.  El programa de adquisici6n de materiales muestra un avance satisfactorio, sobre todo a partir de 1999, con
el nuevo esquema de adquisici6n local. Destacan en unidades fisicas, pero sobre todo por su irnpacto inmediato, las
adquisiciones de tuberias y de otros materiales necesarios para las instalaciones de los sistemas de conducci6n
interparcelarios, que han permitido aumentar la eficiencia en el manejo del agua en forma considerable.
3.25.  Obra Civil de la Red Interparcelaria (d).- Las AUs, con la supervisi6n de la CNA, realizaron las obras
necesarias para la infraestructura de la red menor de riego. El rubro forma parte de las contribuciones de las AUs a
las obras de desarrollo interparcelario, con una significativa participaci6n de los beneficiados, destacando las obras
de drenaje y conducci6n.
3.26.  Control de Inventarios (e).- Se Ilevaron a cabo los servicios de asistencia tecnica con amnpio apoyo de la
CNA hacia las AUs, en la supervisi6n de licitaciones, contrataci6n, provisi6n y distribuci6n de adquisiciones y
control de inventarios de materiales de construcci6n, equipos y maquinaria transferidos a las AUs.
C.     Acciones Parcelarias.
3.27.  A diciembre de 2001, se logr6 un promedio de cumplimiento de metas fisicas del 98%. Las actividades
realizadas incorporan la participacion de FIRCO, en cuanto al programa de ferti-irrigaci6n, mediante el cual se
han instalado sistemas de riego a nivel parcela con la participaci6n minima del 50% de las inversiones por parte de
los usuarios. Asimismo las acciones fueron con servicios de asistencia tecnica por parte de la CNA, para
adquisici6n, distribucion y control de inventarios de los materiales de construcci6n para las obras parcelarias.
3.28.  Adquisici6n de Materiales (a).- La adquisici6n de materiales para las acciones parcelarias ha tenido un
comportamiento satisfactorio, destacando las adquisiciones de tuberias y materiales para las obras de entubamiento,
regaderas y drenajes parcelarios.
3.29.   Obra Civil Parcelaria (b).- Se ha realizado obras tales como: revestimiento y entubado de regaderas
internas; nivelaci6n de tierras; instalacion de tuberias con compuertas de control; introducci6n de pequenios
dispositivos de medici6n y control: trabajos en las redes de drenaje agricola; y electrificaci6n de bombas.
3.30.   Sistemas de Riego (c).- La incorporaci6n de FIRCO al componente de Acciones Parcelarias fue acertada,
al procurarse apoyos a los productores para levar a cabo instalaciones de sistemas de riego en sus predios, con un
esquema de financiamiento accesible, aceptado y con acciones de exito ya probadas en el esquema de FIRCO.
3.31.  En el programa de riego implementado por FIRCO, se realizaron inversiones por $PM 1,758.8 millones.
La cantidad aportada por los productores beneficiados supera la meta del 50%, con un monto de $PM 1,151.2
millones que representan el 65%. La superficie beneficiada con sistemas de riego fue de 225,981 Ha y los
beneficiados fueron 22,046 productores. En cuanto a metas fisicas en sistemas de riego, las metas se superaron
ampliamente, destacando los de compuerta (63,031 Ha), cintilla (35,114 Ha), goteo (34,503 Ha), aspersi6n (23,458
Ha), micro aspersi6n (20,732 Ha) y pivote central (19,526 Ha). Anexo 3.
3.32.  Indicadores de Impacto.- En el Anexo 4 se anotan los indicadores SAR de impacto del proyecto, en
donde se aprecia en general un mejoramiento en la eficiencia del manejo del agua.  Los rendimientos de los
principales cultivos presentan mejoras sustanciales. Otros indicadores de producci6n agricola presentan
inconsistencias, que sera necesario revisar mediante un estudio adecuado.
3.33.  Metas financieras.- Hasta 2001 el PRODEP cont6 con una asignaci6n presupuestal para su programa
operativo anual de inversiones del periodo 1994-01, de $PM 2,220.3 millones, de los cuales se han ejercido a
- 56 -



diciembre de 2001, el 91.3%, por un monto de $PM 2,008.3 millones, cumpliendo asi tambien en forma
satisfactoria con las metas financieras, en correlaci6n con el cumplimiento de las metas fisicas. Anexo 5.
PRODEP: Presupuesto Asignado y Ejercido ($PM Milones)
PRESUPUESTO             1994   1995   1996    1997   1998   1999   2000*    2001   TOTAL
Asignado                55.0   90.0    50.0   404.6  366.6  400.4  292.4    341.3  2,200.3
CNA                     55.0   90.0   125.0   244.4  244.4  244.0  192.0    223.7  1,418.5
FIRCO                           ____125.0     160.2  122.2  156.4  100.4    117.6  781.8
Ejercido                38.8   47.8    48.6  327.9   361.3  397.3  303.2    283.4  2,008.3
CNA                     38.8   47.8   124.3   180.9  244.3  240.5  199.0    165.8  1,241.4
FIRCO                    _            1124.3  147.0  117.0  156.8  104.2    117.6  766.9
Ejercido                70.5%  53.1%  9.4%    81.0%  98.6%  99.2%  103.7%   83.0%  91.3%
*Incluye intereses generados en los fideicomisos.
3.34. Desembolsos.- Al 31 de diciembre de 2001 los desembolsos acumulados, ascienden a US$ 156.5 millones,
el 92.1% del prestamo 3704-ME (Anexo 6). La cuenta especial por un monto de US$ 14.0 millones, esta
totalmente saldada. El saldo por desembolsar es de US$ 13.5 millones, principalmente (76%) de la categoria de
maquinaria. Se ha solicitado una breve extensi6n a la fecha de cierre hasta el 31 de marzo de 2002 y una pr6rroga
administrativa para comprobacion de desembolsos fijada para el 31 de julio de 2002. La siguiente tabla muestra el
comportamiento de los desembolsos en el periodo de ejecuci6n del programa:
Desembolsos (US$ millones)
Desembolso        1994 1995    1996    1997    1998     1999    2000   2001   TOTAL
Programa          17.00 29.75  34.00   34.00   29.75    25.50  0.00   0.00    170.00
Real              14.00 5.91   7.91    22.82   38.30    25.33   15.13  27.10  156.50
82.4% 19.9%   23.3%  67.1%   128.7%   99.3%   r.a.   n.a.   92.1%
3.35.  La evoluci6n anual de los desembolsos del prestamo fue normal en el primer afno de efectividad, en 1994
se desembols6 el 82% de lo programado para ese afio, pero en el tramo de 1995-97 el desembolso fue lento, debido
sobre todo a la insuficiencia de recursos de contrapartida por problemas fmancieros a nivel pais y a retrazo en las
comprobaciones administrativas de los desembolsos principalnente en el rubro de adquisiciones de maquinaria y
materiales.
3.36.  Recuperaci6n de Inversiones.- La CNA emprendi6 acciones tendientes a resolver la situaci6n de atrasos
en la recuperaci6n de inversiones de algunos m6dulos beneficiados. Estas medidas han tenido resultados favorables
disminuyendo el monto de los pagos atrasados y aumentando los pagos adelantados de algunos m6dulos. Al 31 de
diciembre de 2001, se han realizado pagos por $PM 36.6 millones, de los cuales 50 m6dulos efectuaron pagos por
adelantado por $PM  10.8 millones y subsisten 73 m6dulos con atrasos en pagos por $PM  13.0 millones.
Previendose la regularizaci6n de pagos programados antes del cierre del programa. Anexo 7.
IV.    PRINCIPALES FACTORES OUE AFECTARON AL PROYECTO
1.     Factores no sujetos a control Gubernamental
4.1.   La crisis econ6mica del pais durante 1995, afect6 negativamente al proyecto, en cuanto a la asignaci6n
presupuestal con recursos fiscales para contrapartida del programa.
4.2.   Otro factor negativo fue la conjunci6n de condiciones climaticas adversas durante el periodo de los afnos
- 57-



1995 al 98. Estas contingencias forzaron a inversiones extraordinarias para las obras de emergencias no previstas
inicialmente en el presupuesto de la CNA.
4.3.   Como factor positivo para el proyecto, se destaca el apoyo tecnico y administrativo del banco para realizar
las modificaciones al programa, mediante su reestructuraci6n, adecuaciones en criterios y gesti6n, que permitieron
flexibilizar el ejercicio del cr6dito.
2.     Factores sujetos a control gubernamental
4.4.   La participaci6n conjunta de los recursos federales, estatales, municipales y de los usuarios hizo posible el
logro de los objetivos y metas. Al respecto, cabe destacar la favorable disposici6n de la ANUR, para participar en
operaciones de cofinanciamiento de los proyectos.
4.5. La transformaci6n y crisis del sistema financiero mexicano, afectaron negativamente al nivel de los
productores usuarios, sobre todo por la disminuci6n dristica de los cr6ditos de la banca comercial y de desarrollo
para la producci6n agropecuaria.
3.     Factores sujetos a control de la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua
4. 6 Durante la vigencia del prestamo la CNA impulso el desarrollo institucional interno y ademas fomento y
logr6 elfortalecimiento institucional de los usuarios, mediante las diversas acciones que se han descrito.
4.7. Un factor positivo de gran importancia, fueron las acciones de promoci6n y coordinacion realizadas por la
CNA con los usuarios. El proceso estimul6 la creaci6n de la ANUR quien se convirti6 en un elemento central para
articular y consolidar la participaci6n de los usuarios.
V.     SUSTENTABILIDAD ESPERADA
5.1.   El Gobiemo de Mexico tiene el compromiso institucional para seguir apoyando programas del tipo del
PRODEP, ya que los objetivos del programa forman parte de la politica gubernamental de fomento al sector
agropecuario.
5.2.   El PRODEP es un instrumento necesario para hacer sostenible la transferencia de los distritos de riego y
la apropiaci6n por parte de los usuarios de la operatividad de los DRs, desde la obra principal hasta el nivel
parcelario.
5. 3. Se requiere que se contintue con el mejoramiento de la eficiencia y la productividad de los distritos de riego
mediante la implantaci6n de programas especif cos, lo cual permitira una mayor capacidad y solvencia del
usuario para participar tanto en las inversiones como en la administraci6n de la operacion de los distritos de
riego.
5.4.   Con el PRODEP se han obtenido logros en la productividad y eficiencia de manejo, en la mayoria de los
m6dulos beneficiados con el programa, sin embargo auin falta que su cobertura se generalice en los distritos de
riego, para que se convierta en un factor detonante mAs efectivo.
5.5. Falta para la consolidacion del proyecto, la conjunci6n de otros factores adicionales, como el credito para
las unidades productivas, la terminaci6n de la modernizaci6n y rehabilitacion integral de los DRs.
VI.    ACTUACION DEL BANCO
6.1.   El Banco Mundial realiz6 normalnente las misiones anuales de administraci6n y supervisi6n de los
avances del programa. Se destaca la actuaci6n del Banco para Ilevar a cabo la reestructuraci6n financiera del
programa original, readecuandolo a las circunstancias econ6micas prevalecientes en el entorno del Garante.
6.2.   El Banco Mundial particip6 activamente proporcionando informaci6n, asesorando tecnicamente y
proponiendo soluciones para la mejor marcha operativa del programa. En algunos casos decidi6 acciones para
- 58 -



facilitar la ejecuci6n del programa. El dialogo permanente entre el Banco Mundial y las autoridades del Ejecutor,
Prestatario y unidades supervisoras en el terreno, fue un factor clave para superar. dificultades relacionadas con
desembolsos, licitaciones y consolidaci6n de informaci6n.
VII.   ACTUACION DEL PRESTATARIO
7.1. El desempenio de NAFIN y de la CNA, fue acertado durante la implantaci6n del proyecto, sobre todo en su
intervenci6n oportuna para proponer soluciones que desembocaron en la reestructuraci6n financiera del programa
y en la incorporaci6n de FIRCO como coejecutor. AdemAs en el ambito operativo, mediante el seguimiento de las
operaciones se ha logrado un constante mejoramiento en los controles, registros de licitaciones, desembolsos y
metas logradas.
VIII. EVALUACI6N DE RESULTADOS
8.1.   Los objetivos del PRODEP se alcanzaron satisfactoriamente sobre todo por lo que se refiere a la
participaci6n y organizaci6n de los usuarios; las acciones del programa han creado condiciones favorables para que
los productores participen mas activamente y en forma organizada en la administraci6n, operaci6n y conservaci6n
de la infraestructura hidraulica; asimismo se ha logrado una mejora general en la infraestructura hidraulica a nivel
parcelario y una mayor inversi6n privada en el subsector riego con el consecuente menor costo para los egresos de
la Federaci6n.
8.2. Otros objetivos logrados con el PRODEP, se pueden resumir en los siguientes aspectos: se mejoraron los
niveles de inversi6n en el sector de riego y drenaje; se introdujeron reformas pendientes al transferir a los usuarios
de manera gradual y sisternAtica la operaci6n y mantenimiento de los distritos; se mejor6 la eficiencia dandole
prioridad a la modernizaci6n en los distritos, asi como a la terminaci6n de proyectos en proceso; se promovi6 el
mejor uso del agua mediante la capacitaci6n a los usuarios y ejecutando obras para el mejoramiento en el ambito
parcelario; se previnieron los impactos ambientales que pudieron derivarse de la ejecuci6n de los proyectos.
8.3. El periodo original de ejecuci6n contratado fue de 5 anos y el periodo real para ejercer el monto final del
pr6stamo se extendi6 por 2 afnos mas, por factores ex6genos circunstanciales, no relacionados con el disefno del
programa.
8.4. La participaci6n inicial del Banco Mundial en el costo total del programa se previ6 en 35.2%, frente al
29.9% final. Hasta diciembre de 2001, el GOM ha tenido un gasto de $USA 29.8 millones por concepto de todos
los gastos financieros del prestamo, es decir el 17.5%.
IX.    LECCIONES DEL PROYECTO
1.     Diseiio del proyecto
9.1. Se destaca que este programa a diferencia de anteriores financiados por el Banco Mundial, se le ha dado como
enfasis al financiamiento con recursos del prestamo a rubros especificos para apoyar a la obra hidroagricola y
equipamientos a nivel secundario y terciario de la distribuci6n en nivel parcelario e interparcelario. La ejecuci6n de
estas obras y las acciones previstas en el Programa son fundamentales para impulsar la productividad y eficiencias
como fnalidad esencial. Sin embargo, siendo evidente que la experiencia es un exito, desde el aspecto conceptual
que se ha logrado, no lo es en cuanto a la magnitud y cantidad requeridas. Siendo que la Rehabilitaci6n y
Modernizaci6n de los Distritos y Unidades de Riego, de ninguna manera es una asignatura terminada y que de ella
depende la integralidad para conseguir el fin de obtener en forma generalizada una alta productividad con
eficiencia.
9.2. La incorporaci6n de FIRCO, fue un acierto y se aprecia que se mejor6 la interrelaci6n y complementaci6n de
acciones. Por su parte, la CNA se signific6 con logros de nivelaci6n de tierras y FIRCO con gran impacto en la
implantaci6n de sistemas de riego, redituando en mejoras de ingresos y reducci6n de costos de producci6n.
9.3. Tomando en cuenta las lecciones aprendidas con el PRODEP y el PSRD, se concluye que una nueva operaci6n
- 59 -



debe incluir el concepto de integralidad en cuanto al disenio tecnico, su cobertura y tambien en cuanto a las
entidades ejecutoras y participantes.
2. Implantaci6n del proyecto
9.4. El Programa de Desarrollo Parcelario, es un programa institucional de la CNA que Ileva a cabo a nivel
nacional, por lo cual el PRODEP fmanciado con recursos del prestamo 3704-ME no tuvo dificultades para
desarrollarse en terminos operativos. El efecto negativo fueron las restricciones presupuestales, que obligaron a la
CNA a distribuciones presupuestales con linitaciones para diversos rubros que incidi6 principalmente en lentitud
para la realizaci6n de los proyectos.
9.5. Asimismo se ha logrado la descentralizaci6n y participaci6n de los estados y municipios en las inversiones de
infraestructura y la participaci6n del sector privado.
3. Ejecutor:
9.6.   Tanto la CNA como NAFIN, operaron el programa acertadamente. Los registros y controles de la
documentaci6n del prestamo se mejoraron, consigui6ndose un seguimiento que se sostuvo hasta la fecha, a pesar de
que la informacion de los proyectos se encontraban dispersas y poco sistematizadas en el ambito de los distritos de
riego.
X.     OPERACIONES FUTURAS
I En cuanto al diseno delproyecto
10.1.  Aplicar el programa ya disenado que permita intensificar las acciones para consolidar los logros
alcanzados con la implantaci6n de esta etapa del PRODEP y extenderlo a todas las areas de riego, con una visi6n
integral del sector agropecuario.
10.2.  Por la experiencia de la instauraci6n de las AUs, se aprecia la necesidad de propiciar una evolucion
orientada con mayores y suficientes apoyos, especialmente para aquellas organizaciones con menos experiencia;
por ello la CNA estableceria un sistema de monitoreo de indicadores que peiritan la implantaci6n de planes de
acci6n anuales para elevar los resultados a niveles mas satisfactorios.
10.3.  Por las caracteristicas complejas del programa, los agentes fmancieros deben procurar desde el principio
la pertinencia de una flexibilizaci6n a priori por parte de los bancos, para la operaci6n de este tipo de proyectos, ya
que por su natumleza estan sujetos a condiciones cambiantes y por lo tanto a las adecuaciones del caso.
10.4.   Se recomienda tomar acciones para impulsar los trabajos de rehabilitacion de proyectos de riego como
un medio efectivo para lograr la sustentabilidad agricola. La inversi6n en los proyectos se seguira con participaci6n
de las inversiones por parte de los usuarios con criterios de equidad y los apoyos colaterales correspondientes como
el aspecto de financinamientos al productor.
10.5.  Se tomarian en cuenta recursos complementarios que incluyan el apoyo financiero vital para asegurarse
que todos los elementos requeridos aseguren la sustentabilidad. Es recomendable propiciar otras fuentes de
fmanciamiento que complementen los gastos para asegurar una mayor cobertura de los componentes que se deben
integrar a los proyectos.
10.6.  En la racionalizaci6n de la inversi6n se dara prioridad a la consolidaci6n integral de proyectos existentes
con impactos de corto plazo en la productividad. Para ello habra de darse un impulso mayor al desempeno de las
AUs con capacitaci6n a los usuarios. El fomento a la creaci6n de empresas locales prestadoras de servicios.
10.7.  Una de las dificultades para generalizar mayor productividad en las obras hidroagricolas, estriba en el
hecho de que aun persisten grandes inversiones realizadas en infraestructura principal de riego que no tienen un
- 60 -



uso pleno.
XI.    CONCLUSIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES
11.1.  El resultado del programa y su operaci6n se considera satisfactorio, basandose en los logros de los
objetivos y cumplimiento de las metas propuestas.
11.2.  El Programa adopt6 un enfoque de complementariedad con otros programas institucionales, con efectos
favorables en la eficiencia de la inversi6n puiblica. La visi6n de integralidad y complementariedad debe estar
presente en futuros programas.
11.3.  La CNA, ademas de sortear las presiones que enfrent6 con base en realidades de demanda de obras, con
condiciones climatol6gicas y de los constantes ajustes a sus presupuestos, careci6 de posibilidades de completar la
rehabilitaci6h y modernizaci6n cabal de todos los DRs del pais, con todo y superar la meta de transferencia.
11.4.  La estrategia del Banco en el Subsector Riego habrA de continuar racionalizando la inversi6n de la
infraestructura con un enfasis vinculado a la producci6n agrfcola, procurando la eficiencia en el uso del agua y
suelo y promoviendo la autonomia sostenible de los productores, incorporando asimismo una estrategia orientada a
la reconversi6n productiva. En pr6ximas operaciones se deberia dar prioridad a un programa que incluya todas las
acciones necesarias para un incremento efectivo de la productividad agricola.
11.5.  La experiencia del programa permite concluir que debe continuarse la politica de inversiones de la CNA
hacia la modemizaci6n integral de los DRs y URs, lo cual permitirI la consolidaci6n de las inversiones realizadas
incidiendo en la eficiencia de la operaci6n, en economia y productividad.
11.6.  El desarrollo institucional de las AUs es fundamental para aprovechar adecuadamente los apoyos
otorgados. El rubro sigue siendo un componente vigente en futuras operaciones, ya que la capacitaci6n como un
proceso continuo, aun no es adoptado de manera generalizada por las AUs, como parte de sus inversiones propias.
- 61 -



Additional Annex 9. List of studies and publications by CNA.
Studies
1.     Registro de la Situaci6n Actual e Impacto del PRODEP en la Producci6n Agricola, el Uso del
Agua y el Nivel Socioecon6mico de los Beneficiarios en los M6dulos K-61, 4P-10 y 4P-12 del
Distrito R. Yaqui, Son.; M6dulo 8 del Distrito R Mayo, Son.; M6dulo 2 del Distrito el Carrizo,
Sin.; M6dulo II-2 del Distrito R Fuerte Sin. y M6dulo IV-2 del Distrito Culiacan, Sin.
2.     Servicio de Consultoria que se Prestara a la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua para Asesorar a las
Asociaciones de Usuarios, en el Diseino y Formaci6n de una Empresa Privada de Servicios para la
Ejecuci6n del Programna de Desarrollo Parcelario.
3.     Disefios Ejecutivos Correspondientes a los M6dulos 6 y 8 Distrito Rio Yaqui, Son.
4.     Sistema Logistico de Maquinaria, Equipo y Materiales para los M6dulos K-61, 4P-12 del Distrito
Rio Yaqui, Son.; M6dulo 8 del Distrito Rio Mayo, Son.; M6dulo 2 del Distrito el Carrizo, Sin.;
M6dulo II-2 del Distrito Rio Fuerte Sin.; M6dulo IV-2 del Distrito Culiacan, Sin. y M6dulo 2 del
Distrito Rio Colorado B.C.
5.     Sistema Logistico de Maquinaria, Equipo y Materiales para los M6dulos 3 del Distrito Delicias,
Chih.; M6dulo Jaral del Distrito Rio Lerma, Gto. y M6dulo VI del Distrito la Laguna, Coah.
6.     Tecnificaci6n y Organizaci6n Integral del M6dulo de Riego 5 en la Unidad Hidalgo del Distrito de
Riego 045, Tuxpan, MichoacAn.
7.     Asesoria Tecnica sobre Operaci6n de Distritos de Riego Basada en Pron6stico del Riego en
Tiempo Real.
8.     Asistencia T6cnica, Supervisi6n y Seguimiento de Proyectos de Drenaje Parcelario en Distritos de
Riego.
9.     Supervisi6n y Seguimiento en el Desarrollo del Centro Nacional de Transferencia de Tecnologia de
Riego y Drenaje (CENATRYD).
10.    Rehabilitaci6n y Modernizaci6n de los Distritos de Riego en Mexico.
11.    Migraci6n de Agroquimicos en el Suelo y Cuantificaci6n en los Excedentes de Agua Drenada a
Nivel Parcelario (segunda de tres etapas).
12.    Mantenimiento y Caracterizaci6n de Molinetes de Distritos y Unidades de Riego.
13.    Migraci6n de Agroquimicos en el Suelo y Cuantificaci6n en los Excedentes de Agua Drenada a
Nivel Parcelario (tercera de tres etapas).
14.    Mantenimiento y Caracterizaci6n de Molinetes de Distritos y Unidades de Riego.
15.    Supervision y Realizaci6n del Programa Nacional de Capacitaci6n para Tecnicos de CNA y
Asociaciones de Usuarios de Riego.
16.    Asesoria en Proyectos y en la Tecnificaci6n del Riego en Distritos de Riego.
17.    Evaluaci6n del Funcionamiento de Equipos de Medici6n de Nivel, Gasto y Posici6n de Compuertas
para Distritos de Riego.
18.    Asistencia Tecnica, Supervisi6n y Seguimiento de Proyectos de Drenaje Parcelario en Distritos de
Riego.
19.    Modernizaci6n de la Zona de Riego "Los Insurgentes".
20.    Asesoria Pedag6gica para la Operaci6n del Centro Regional de Capacitaci6n Tizimin y del Centro
Nacional de Transferencia de Tecnologia en Riego y drenaje (CENATRYD).
21.    Evaluaci6n del Impacto de la Tecnificaci6n y la Organizaci6n de los Distritos de Riego.
22.    Estudio Socioecon6mico y Propuesta de Organizaci6n y Comercializaci6n del M6dulo de Riego 5,
Cortazar, del D.R. 01 1 Alto Rio Lerma, Gto.
23.    Coordinaci6n y Realizaci6n del Programa Nacional de Capacitaci6n en Operaci6n, Conservaci6n e
Ingenieria de Riego para Personal de CNA y Asociaciones de Usuarios de Riego.
- 62 -



24.    Sistema de Supervisi6n de la Operaci6n de Canales en Distritos de Riego.
25.    Asistencia Tecnica, Supervisi6n y Evaluaci6n de Proyectos de Drenaje Agricola en Distritos de
Riego.
26.    Asesoria Tecnica para la Revisi6n de Proyectos de Sistemas de Riego Parcelario e Interparcelario.
27.    Sistema de C6mputo para el procesamiento de la Informaci6n Relativa a los Programas y la
Maquinaria de Conservaci6n de Distritos de Riego.
28.    Sistematizaci6n de las Estadisticas Agricolas e Hidrom6tricas en Distritos de Riego.
29.    Estudios para Reglamentar la Operaci6n de los Distritos de Riego en el Rio Bravo.
30.    Diagn6stico y Estrategia para Mejorar la Medici6n del Agua en Distritos de Riego.
31.    Asistencia Tecnica, Supervisi6n y Evaluaci6n de Proyectos de Drenaje Agricola en Distritos de
Riego.
32.    Formaci6n Integral de los Instructores Contables y la Realizaci6n de la Supervisi6n y Evaluaci6n
para el Programa Nacional de Capacitaci6n Contable Practica 2001, de Nivel Basico e Intermedio.
Publications
1.     Sistemas de Riego Presurizado
2.     Drenaje Agricola y Recuperaci6n de Suelos Salinos
3.     Apuntes de Dotaci6n Volumetrica
4.     Uso Eficiente del Agua y la Energia en Sistemas de Bombeo
5.     Control Integral de Maleza AcuAtica en Distritos de Riego
6.     Conservaci6n de Distritos de Riego y M6dulos de Riego
7.     Operaci6n y Selecci6n de Estructuras HidrAulicas en Canales
8.     Dotaci6n Volumetrica
9.     Operaci6n y Evaluaci6n de Sistemas de Riego por Gravedad
10.    Manual para Disenio de Zonas de Riego Pequenias
11.    Manual de Drenaje Parcelario de los Distritos de Riego
12.    Manual de Disefio e Instalaci6n de Drenaje Parcelario en Zonas Aridas y Semiaridas Bajo Riego
13.    Requerimientos de Agua para Riego
14.    Manual para Planificar la Tecnificaci6n del Riego Parcelario
15.    Video Riego Agricola en Mexico (Riego y Operaci6n Transitoria)
16.    Diplomado de Nivelaci6n de Tierras
17.    I Diplomado de Ingenieria de Drenaje y Salinidad
a)     Reducci6n de P6rdidas de Agua a Nivel Parcelario con Metodos de Riego Presurizados
b)     Reducci6n de Perdidas de Agua a Nivel Parcelario con Metodos de Riego por Gravedad
Tecnificado
c)     Efecto del Ensalitraniento en los Cultivos
d)     Pron6stico del Regimen Hidrico - Uso de Programas de C6mputo
e)     El Drenaje Agricola en Zonas Aridas y Zonas H(umedas (Requerimientos Agricolas y Ecol6gicas
para Proyectos de Drenaje y Recuperaci6n de Suelos en Zonas Aridas, Impacto Ambiental del
Drenaje en Zonas Aridas de Riego)
f)     Mejoramiento de la Planeaci6n y Operaci6n de la Red de Canales de Distribuci6n para Reducir
Pedidas de Agua de Riego
g)     Drenaje Agricola: Estudios Freatimntricos y de Salinidad de los Suelos
h)     Calidad de Aguas de Riego, Lavado de Suelos y Sobre Riego
i)     Uso Combinado de Aguas Superficiales y Aguas Subterrineas para el Riego
j)     Estimaci6n y Reducci6n de Perdidas por Infiltraci6n en la Red de Distribuci6n de Aguas de Riego
k)     Mejoramiento de la Conservaci6n de la Red de Drenaje de Apoyo
- 63 -



18.    I Diplomado Ingenieria de Riego
a)     Modelos de Disefio en Riego por Surcos
b)     Riego por Melgas
c)     Rentabilidad de la Implantaci6n del' Riego Presurizado - Analisis de Costos
d)     Pozos de Agua Subterranea y Calculo de Equipo de Bombeo
e)     Riego por Surcos
f)     Hidriulica del Riego Superficial
g)     Riego Intermitente
h)     Riego por Aspersi6n, Sistema PortAtil y Fijo, Riego de Bajo Volumen
i)    Impacto Ambiental del Riego, la Fertirrigaci6n y la Quimigaci6n
j)     Calidad de Agua de Riego, Interpretaci6n de Analisis Fisico - Quimico y Bacteriol6gico
k)     Fertirrigaci6n y la Quimigaci6n
I)     Riego por Tuberias de Baja Presi6n
m)     Calidad de Agua de Riego, Interpretaci6n de Contenido de Sales y Elementos Menores
n)     Hidraulica de Sistemas de Riego Presurizado
o)     Requerimiento y Calendario de Riego con Fines de Planeaci6n, Programas de C6mputo
19.    Curso Internacional de Sistemas de Riego
a)     Volumen I (Disefio Agron6mico de los Sistemas de Riego, Calendarizaci6n del Riego en Tiempo
Real)
b)     Volumen II (Hidriulica de Sistemas de Riego Presurizado, Tecnificaci6n del Riego Presurizado,
Funcionamiento Hidriulico de los Sistemas de Riego Presurizado)
c)     Volumen m (Nivelaci6n de Tierras Mediante Tecnologia Laser, Disefno de Riego por Gravedad,
Riego por     Surcos, Riego con Tuberias de Multicompuertas y Equipos de Fertirrigaci6n)
d)     Volumen IV (Fisiologia y Nutrici6n Vegetal, Sistemas de Producci6n Hidrop6nicas)
e)     Volumen V (Riego por Goteo, Disefno y Manejo de Sistemas de Microirrigaci6n, Irrigaci6n con
Goteo Subsuperficial, Caso Practico de Microirrigaci6n.
- 64 -












Repoit No.:       24603
Type:    tCR



