Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3704 ME
                              Loan Agreement
        (On-farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                            Dated June 10, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3704 ME
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
(the Borrower).
      WHEREAS (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower,
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
      (C)   the Bank has received a letter dated February 14, 1994 from the
Guarantor describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed
to increase private sector participation in the irrigation subsector
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Guarantor's commitment to
the execution of the Program and the provision of adequate financing
therefor; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CNA" means the Guarantor's National Water Commission (Comision
Nacional del Agua) described in, and governed by, Chapter III of the Water
Law;
      (b)   "Construction Designs" means the detailed construction designs,
prepared under Part A.2 (a) of the Project in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (c)   "Core Area" means the area (approximately 400,000 ha)
encompassed by the Selected Modules;
      (d)   "Design Commitment Agreement" means the agreement (Acta de
Aceptacion de Compromisos para Iniciar Disenos) to be entered into between
CNA and Water Users' Organizations after the completion of a feasibility
study and prior to CNA's preparation of detailed construction designs for
a Subproject in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06 of the
Guarantee Agreement;
      (e)   "Design Manual" means CNA's design manual for Minor Irrigation
Works to be prepared and distributed in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.08 of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (f)   "Engineering Field Offices" means the engineering field offices
of CNA (Oficinas de Ingenieria de Riego y de Drenaje) serving the
Participating Irrigation Districts;
      (g)   "GIS" means a geographic information system;
      (h)   "GPS" means the global positioning system, an electronic
positioning system for aerial survey purposes;
      (i)   "Group I of the Selected Modules" means the first group of 11
of the Selected Modules for which feasibility studies were prepared for Part
C.1 of the Project during 1993 in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (j)   "Group II of the Selected Modules" means the second group of 33
(or such other number as may be agreed upon between the Bank and CNA) of the
Selected Modules for which feasibility studies will be completed under Part
C.1 of the Project during 1994 and 1995 in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement;
Page  3
      (k)   "Implementation and Cost Recovery Agreement" means the agreement
(Acta de Aceptacion de Compromisos para la Ejecucion del Proyecto y
Recuperacion de Costos) to be entered into between CNA and Water Users'
Organization prior to the execution of works for Subprojects in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.07 of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (l)   "IMTA" means the Guarantor's Mexican Institute for Water
Technology (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua) as defined in Article
1 of the Guarantor's Decree published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette
of August 6, 1986;
      (m)   "IMTA Instruction Letter" means the instruction letter to be
issued by CNA's Director General to IMTA in accordance with Section 3.10 of
the Guarantee Agreement;
      (n)   "Irrigation Districts" means the irrigation districts described
in, and governed by, Title 6, Chapter II, Section 4 of the Water Law;
      (o)   "Irrigation Farmers" means farmers practicing irrigated
agriculture in the Participating Irrigation Districts;
      (p)   "Minor Irrigation Networks" means irrigation, drainage and roads
infrastructure in common areas upstream from farm gates with flows up to
2,000 liters per second and covering irrigated surfaces up to about 500
hectares, managed and operated by the Water Users' Organizations of the
Selected Modules;
      (q)   "Modules" means the hydraulic units into which Irrigation
Districts are geographically divided for purposes of transfer of management
and operation of Minor Irrigation Networks to Water Users' Organizations;
      (r)   "On-farm Irrigation Improvements" means irrigation improvements
of the type described in Part B.1 of the Project;
      (s)   "Participating Irrigation Districts" means the Guarantor's
Irrigation Districts set forth in Annex 1 to the letter from the Guarantor
to the Bank of even date with this Agreement;
      (t)   "Project Monitoring System" means the monitoring system to be
established and operated within the Project Unit in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.04(b) of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (u)   "Project Unit" means the unit established within CNA for the
implementation and supervision of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (v)   "Selected Modules" means the Modules in the Partici- pating
Irrigation Districts referred to in paragraphs (i) and (j) of this Section
in which responsibility for management and operation of Minor Irrigation
Networks has been transferred to Water Users' Organizations;
      (w)   "Subprojects" means the works and other physical interventions
to be carried out in the Selected Modules under Part A.1 of the Project;
      (x)   "Water Law" means the Guarantor's Law of National Waters (Ley
de Aguas Nacionales) published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette of
December 1, 1992;
      (y)   "Water Users' Organizations" means the private organi- zations
with legal personality, including civil associations (Asociaciones Civiles)
and limited liability companies of public interest (Sociedades de
Responsabilidad Limitada de Interes Publico) formed or to be formed in the
Participating Irrigation Districts for the purpose of assuming the
management and operation of Modules; and
      (z)   "year" means calendar year.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
Page  4
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Banco de Mexico on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
Page  5
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
            of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter
alia, for: (i) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for
the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) the transfer by the Guarantor to
the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the
Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual
arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works (field surveys, drilling and topographic services) and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03
of the Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the semi-annual,
midterm and annual reviews referred to in Section 3.11 of the Guarantee
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the resources and expenditures in connection
with the execution of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the
                  Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
                  procedures consistently applied, by independent and
                  qualified auditors;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by such auditors, of such
Page  6
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested;
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of
                  the Special Account; and
           (iv)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts as well as the audit thereof as
                  the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall provide to the Guarantor any information that may be required
by the Guarantor to comply with the Guarantor's obligations under Section
4.01 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the Water Law or the regulations issued thereunder shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in a manner which,
in the opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely affect the
implementation of the Project or the attainment of its objectives;
      (b)   the Guarantor shall have taken any action for the dissolution
or disestablishment of CNA or IMTA or for the suspension of the operations
of either of them;
      (c)   CNA or IMTA shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the IMTA Instruction Letter; and
      (d)   CNA or any of the Water Users' Organizations shall have failed
to perform any of their obligations under any Design Commitment Agreement
or any Implementation and Cost Recovery Agreement. In such case, the Bank
may, after consultation with and by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, only suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred by the
Water Users' Organization in question.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have given by the Bank to the Guarantor.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01(a) of
this Agreement have been executed;
      (b)   the Guarantor, through CNA, has established the Project
Monitoring System in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04(b) of
the Guarantee Agreement;
      (c)   the agreement or agreements for inventory control referred to
in Section 3.09 of the Guarantee Agreement has or have been executed;
      (d)   the Bank has received the Construction Designs for all
Subprojects in the Group I of the Selected Modules;
Page  7
      (e)   all Participating Irrigation Districts have issued their
regulations in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.14 of the
Guarantee Agreement;
      (f)   the IMTA Instruction Letter has been executed by CNA in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement;
and
      (g)   a draft of the Design Manual has been prepared in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01(a)
of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Guarantor and
the Borrower, have been duly executed, and are legally binding upon the
Guarantor and the Borrower in accordance with their terms; and
      (b)   that the agreement for inventory control referred to in Section
3.09 of the Guarantee Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
parties thereto, has been duly executed, and is legally binding upon the
parties thereto in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date September 12, 1994 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTTC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Direccion Internacional
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Insurgentes Sur 1971
            Torre IV, Piso 8
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
                  Mexico City               Mexico City
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
Page  8
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                        By /s/ Arturo Ortiz Hidalgo
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)     Works                     10,000,000        90%
(2)     Consulting                 4,700,000        100%
    services for
    supervision
    of works
(3)     Construction             100,000,000        90%
    materials
(4)     Construction              50,000,000        90%
    and maintenance
    machinery
(5)     Laboratory and             2,300,000        90%
    electronic equip-
    ment
(6)     Technical                 15,000,000        100%
    assistance and
    training
(7)     Unallocated               18,000,000
                                 ___________
    TOTAL                        200,000,000
                                 ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "works" means engineering
services, field surveys, drilling and topographic services.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
to exceed $20,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
Page  9
expenditures before that date but after June 21, 1993; (b) payments made for
expenditures under Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above
after June 30, 1999; and (c) payments made for expenditures under Category
(4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above after June 30, 1998.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
works not exceeding $500,000 equivalent, goods not exceeding $250,000
equivalent, or consultants services, technical assistance and training not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Guarantor in
consolidating the transfer of management and operation of Irrigation
Districts from the public sector to Water Users' Organizations; and (b) to
assist Irrigation Farmers in Participating Irrigation Districts in
diversifying their agricultural production and increasing their efficiency
in the use of land and water resources.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Minor Irrigation Network Improvements
1.  Execution of civil works for Subprojects to improve or complete Minor
Irrigation Networks in the Core Area.
2.  Provision by CNA of the following services with respect to Subprojects:
    (a)   field surveys, engineering services such as drilling and boring
of pits, topographic surveys, detailed construction designs, and supervision
of construction; and
    (b)   procurement, distribution and inventory control services for
machinery and construction materials for the execution and maintenance of
Subprojects.
Part B:   On-farm Irrigation Improvements
1.  Execution in the Core Area of on-farm irrigation improvements such as
lining or piping of internal farm ditches, installation of sprinkler, drip
and micro-sprinkler irrigation systems, land levelling, installation of
gated pipes, introduction of small measurement and control structures,
improvement of farm drainage networks, and electrification of pumps.
2.  Provision by CNA of technical assistance, procurement, distribution and
inventory control services for construction materials for On-farm Irrigation
Improvements.
3.  Provision of credit by private sector banks to Irrigation Farmers for
the purpose of On-farm Irrigation Improvements with the assistance of Water
Users' Organizations.
Part C:   Technical Support, Communication and Training
1.  Preparation by CNA, with local support by Engineering Field Offices, of
feasibility studies for Subprojects for the Selected Modules.
2.  Training and professional development of staff of Engineering Field
Offices, other CNA staff, Irrigation Farmers, and other interested parties
involved in the implementation of the Project such as banks participating
in Part B.3 of the Project and other agencies of the Guarantor.
3.  Upgrading of the equipment of Engineering Field Offices.
4.  Provision of services to Irrigation Farmers through:
Page  10
    (a)   establishment and operation of communication units in
Participating Irrigation Districts and training of their staff in
communications skills and information technology;
    (b)   establishment and operation by CNA of four regional information
offices; and
    (c)   dissemination by Engineering Field Offices of information on
irrigation, farm management, marketing and similar topics of practical use
to Irrigation Farmers.
5.  Execution by IMTA and other Mexican research institutions, under the
coordination of IMTA, of an adaptive research program including the
development and testing of: (a) low-cost solutions for the improvement of
Minor Irrigation Networks; (b) the manufacture of low cost polyethylene
pipes using partially recycled material for improved surface and pressurized
irrigation; (c) cost-effective methods to prevent salinity and waterlogging;
and (e) methods for the reclamation of saline soil or its alternative land
use.
6.  Execution of a program of technical assistance for: (a) finalization of
CNA's Design Manual for Minor Irrigation Networks; (b) review of the designs
of Minor Irrigation Networks and On-farm Irrigation Improvements; (c)
operational support to Water Users' Organizations; (d) installation in CNA's
head office of an integrated GPS-GIS survey interpretation system; and (e)
establishment within the Participating Irrigation Districts of an
interactive computerized crop management system for 11 crops.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 1997                           5,305,000
October 15, 1997                         5,505,000
April 15, 1998                           5,710,000
October 15, 1998                         5,920,000
April 15, 1999                           6,140,000
October 15, 1999                         6,370,000
April 15, 2000                           6,605,000
October 15, 2000                         6,850,000
April 15, 2001                           7,105,000
October 15, 2001                         7,370,000
April 15, 2002                           7,645,000
October 15, 2002                         7,930,000
April 15, 2003                           8,220,000
October 15, 2003                         8,530,000
April 15, 2004                           8,845,000
October 15, 2004                         9,175,000
April 15, 2005                           9,515,000
October 15, 2005                         9,865,000
April 15, 2006                          10,235,000
October 15, 2006                        10,615,000
April 15, 2007                          11,010,000
October 15, 2007                        11,415,000
April 15, 2008                          11,840,000
October 15, 2008                        12,280,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
Page  11
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                             The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
                             per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day
                             of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                  0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by a predisclosed correction
factor acceptable to the Bank. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank as modified by
agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank dated December 8, 1993 shall
be used, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project; provided, however, that for
any procurement of goods for which the invitation to bid ("convocatoria")
is dated prior to February 1, 1994 standard bidding documents based on the
so-called "Cuernavaca Documents" with such changes as may be agreed by the
Bank and the Guarantor for each contract shall be used.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for construction materials and for
laboratory and electronic equipment shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and contracts for
construction and maintenance machinery shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mexico may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
Page  12
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Field surveys, drilling and topographic services estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more per contract, construction materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $23,500,000, and laboratory and electronic
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items for engineering services, field surveys,
drilling and topographic services, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$6,500,000, or for laboratory and electronic equipment, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for engineering services, field
surveys, drilling and topography services estimated to cost the equivalent
of $500,000 or more, construction materials and laboratory and electronic
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, each
contract for construction and maintenance machinery, and each contract for
construction materials to be procured in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Part C.1 of this Schedule 4, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Guarantor, through CNA and IMTA, in carrying out
Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Guarantor shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Guarantor
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Page  13
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, up to an
aggregate amount which shall not exceed $5,000,000. However, this exception
to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source selection
of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of works (as defined in Schedule 1, paragraph 2), goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  14
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made suchdeposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
