 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14738

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 04/30/2015

              Country: Mexico
            Project ID: P115347                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: School Based                Project Costs (US$M):                      366.7                n.a.
                        Management (apl Ii)
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                   220.00              220.00
      Sector Board:       Education                  Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                06/17/2010
                                                              Closing Date:           06/30/2013           06/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Primary education (50%); Secondary education (20%); Pre-primary education (20%); Public
                          administration- Education (10%)
         Theme(s):        Education for all (40%); Managing for development results (30%); Participation and civic
                          engagement (30%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Monika Huppi              Judyth L. Twigg        Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    This is the second operation in an envisaged three-project Adaptable Program Loan (APL) series in support of
    the Mexican Government's Quality Schools Program (Programa Escuelas de Calidad - PEC).

    The Loan Agreement (p. 6) defines the project development objective as follows: "to strengthen PEC by
    increasing overall coverage and social participation in Eligible Schools while putting greater emphasis on public
    marginalized schools and on the indigenous population, as well as a reorientation of the School Grants to
    improve public schools' internal efficiency and learning outcomes."

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 7) defines the project-specific development objective as "to strengthen
    PEC by increasing overall coverage and social participation while putting greater emphasis on marginalized
    schools and on the indigenous population, as well as a reorientation of the School Grants to improve schools'
    internal efficiency and learning outcomes," and states (p. 5) that "the long term development objective of this APL
    is to improve the quality of education as measured by coverage, social participation, and education outcomes."

    In keeping with IEG ICR review guidelines, this ICR review will use the PDO from the Loan Agreement.

    The project development objectives were not modified during implementation; however, some of the associated
    indicators and key outcome targets were slightly modified in 2013 to align them better with the PDO and to clarify
    their meaning.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No
c. Components:

   Original project design included three components:

   Component 1: Direct support to schools (original project costs: US$ 343.89 million; actual project costs not
   reported in ICR). The component was to fund a share of the Federal Government's contribution to PEC to fund
   grants to participating schools in support of implementing locally developed annual work plans aligned to
   five-year school improvement plans. Grants were to be administered by participating states, which had to match
   Federal Government/project contributions with a 1/3 state budget contribution.

   Component 2: Monitoring and oversight : (original project costs: US$ 18.59 million; actual project costs not
   reported in ICR). The component was to support upgrading and maintenance of the PEC management
   information system (MIS); fund program oversight, monitoring and supervision; support capacity building at the
   state level by the Federal PEC office; and support an information campaign in support of PEC.

   Component 3: Policy development and evaluation : (original project costs: US$ 3.63 million; actual project costs
   not reported in ICR). The component was to support an external evaluation of PEC's performance and
   preparation of an annual report; a qualitative evaluation of PEC; student learning achievement assessments; an
   impact evaluation of PEC; and studies to help identify options to improve coordination of PEC with other
   education initiatives and with Oportunidades (the national social assistance program).

   The original project costs also included a front-end fee of US$ 0.55 million.

   In the Spring of 2013, the project was restructured and the third project component eliminated. The impact
   evaluation and the qualitative evaluation that had been planned under this component were absorbed into the
   second component. The second component was further amended to include the dissemination of a simplified
   school planning instrument and a survey to collect information on the functioning of the strategic school-based
   management model in PEC schools.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Costs: Total project costs were estimated to be US$ 366.7 million over three years at appraisal. Actual total
   project costs are not reported in the ICR.

   Financing: The approved IBRD loan of US$ 220 million was fully disbursed.

   Borrower contribution : The Government's expected contribution was US$ 146.7 million. The ICR does not
   provide information on the actual Government contribution.

   Dates: The original closing date of June 30, 2013 was extended to June 30, 2014 as part of the Spring 2013
   restructuring to allow another year of school grants to be covered by the project (to make up for a 6 months
   effectiveness delay). Additional reallocations in favor of the school grants disbursement category were processed
   in September 2013 and in June 2014, as most consulting services were financed with Government funds due to
   onerous procurement processes associated with IBRD funds.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial (rated substantial before and after revision of key outcome targets): The PDO was consistent with
   Mexico's key development challenges in education and well aligned with Government priorities. Mexico's human
   development indicators lag behind those of other OECD countries. Progress in education coverage
   notwithstanding, coverage remains uneven, and learning outcomes are low, particularly among poorer states and
   the indigenous population. The project was designed to support an existing government program aiming to
   improve education quality and narrow achievement gaps by granting schools and their associated communities
   more control over day-to-day school management, with emphasis on poorer and indigenous communities as the
   program expanded. As such, the PDO was fully consistent with the Government's program. The PDO is also
   consistent with the Bank's current Country Partnership Strategy for Mexico (FY2014-19), which aims to help the
   country increase productivity and competitiveness (amongst other factors through improved labor market skills)
   and to increase social prosperity and equity of opportunities.
b. Relevance of Design:


   Modest (rated modest before and after revision of key outcome targets): The project's underlying premise was
   that granting schools greater autonomy and increased local participation in school management, which included
   teachers, parents, and community members, would strengthen school oversight and improve learning conditions.
   This would, in the medium term, result in reduced repetition and drop-out rates and ultimately better student
   learning outcomes. While there is an emerging literature suggesting that school-based management and parental
   participation in school oversight and decision making can lead to reduced repetition and grade failure rates if
   certain conditions are in place (with several evaluations specific to Mexico), evidence on effects of school-based
   management on learning outcomes remains scant. Project design built on this emerging literature. It included
   measures to encourage program participation by schools in marginalized areas and by indigenous schools (e.g.
   simplification of PEC application processes, simplified requirements for school improvement plans, adjustments
   to timing of state counterpart funding, outreach to marginalized and indigenous schools through public
   information campaigns, PEC eligibility rules that gave prioritization to such schools when demand exceeded
   supply) and provided state education authorities with support to help such schools participate. However, the
   Borrower's ICR (p. 38) states that selection criteria were such that participation was open to all schools, making
   specifically targeting schools in marginalized areas challenging.
   The project did not include direct support to schools to help strengthen their managerial capacity, an aspect that
   was left to participating states to address. The Borrower's ICR (p. 38) points out that there was insufficient
   training and support to strengthen school management and that the quality of training provided was unknown.
   Given the importance of local management capacity to reap the full benefits of school-based management, the
   project should have paid more attention to training at the school level, particularly since it was aiming to
   strengthen the focus on schools in marginalized areas and indigenous modality schools. The project
   appropriately built in activities to help monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of some program interventions, but
   it did not include a feedback loop to schools and did not provide for any evaluations on the effectiveness of
   state-provided support at the school level.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Given the multi-part nature of the PDO, this ICR Review will assess efficacy by looking at the various
   components of the PDO.

   Outputs: Most of the outputs under the project were associated with more than one part of the PDO. Key outputs
   included:
      Simplification of the PEC application process
      Simplification of the format of the school improvement plan that schools had to submit as a condition to
        receive school grants
      Provision of technical assistance to states to strengthen their capacity to reach out to schools and
        encourage and support their participation in the program
      Support to schools with development of school improvement plans through state education offices
      Support for public information campaigns to spread information about PEC to marginalized and indigenous
        schools and encourage them to apply
      Adjustment of PEC operating rules to give priority to schools from marginalized areas and indigenous
        schools when demand exceeded supply
      Adjustment to timing of state counterpart funding requirement deposit deadline to ensure timely
        disbursements to schools in line with the school year
      Adjustment of PEC operating rules establishing a minimum percentage of each school grant to be used on
        education quality inputs
      Development of an electronic module to capture strategic school transformation plans
      Completion of four new modules of the PEC MIS to strengthen transparency and oversight
      Introduction of electronic MIS for PEC in four states
      Improvements to MIS system, including geo-referencing of all PEC schools
      Financing of learning materials, small works, rehabilitation, and local capacity building at the school level
        through grants provided to 50,624 participating schools

   Outcomes: All ratings of the various elements of the PDO remain the same with respect to pre-and post
   restructuring key outcome targets

   Expand PEC coverage , with emphasis on public marginalized schools and indigenous population : Substantial

   The total number of participating schools rose from 40,790 in 2008/09 to 50,624 in 2013/14, exceeding the target
of 50,000 schools. Coverage rose from 20.3% of basic and special education schools in 2008/09 to 23.85% in
2013-14, exceeding the original target of 22% and the revised target of 23%.

The number of PEC schools with one or more indigenous students increased from 7% in 2009/10 to 13.5% in
2011/12 (information for later years not available, as the indicator was changed, but progress through 2011
suggests that the target would likely have been achieved had the indicator continued to be in effect) against an
original end of project target of 15%. With respect to the revised indicator introduced at restructuring, the share of
participating indigenous modality schools rose from 15.4% in 2008/09 to 20.8% in 2012/2013, but fell to 18% in
2013/14 (target was 19.3%).

The percentage of PEC schools in marginalized and highly marginalized areas rose from 38.4% in 2008/09 to
51.35% at the end of the project, compared to an original target of 50% and a revised target of 55%.

The drop in the share of indigenous modality schools during the last project year was due to two states (Chiapas
and Veracruz) that have a high percentage of schools in marginalized and indigenous communities failing to
come up with the state contribution to the program in time to participate during the last project year. Another
factor that may have affected participation rates of marginalized and indigenous modality schools was the fact
that another program (Full Time Schools Program, PETC) that had been focused on urban schools under the
previous administration was reoriented to include marginalized rural schools under the new administration. Since
schools could only participate in one of the two programs, fewer than expected schools in marginalized areas
may have applied for PEC participation (under PETC schools are selected by the Local Education Authority
without application based on certain criteria, whereas those participating in PEC need to apply).


Expand Social Participation : Substantial

Evidence on increased social participation is mixed. The share of surveyed school community members who
participated in the development of the school improvement plan dropped from 74.2% in 2008/09 to 72.7% in
2012/13 compared to an original target of 80% and a revised target of 75%. It is not clear from the information in
the ICR how representative the sample of surveyed community members is.

However, the share of surveyed community members who confirmed having observed participatory decision
making on school affairs between parents, teachers, and principals rose from 90.2% in 2009 to 93.5% in 2012/13,
exceeding both the original target of 93% and a revised target of 91%. The share of those who observed teachers
encouraging active student participation rose from 66.9% to 91.5%. far exceeding the original target of 72% and
the revised target of 78%.


Reorient school grants to improve internal school efficiency : Substantial

States and participating schools were provided with advice to help them develop school improvement plans and
allocate associated grant resources towards inputs expected to be correlated with student learning. A
requirement was introduced that schools needed to spend at least 30% of resources on education quality inputs
during the first year of participation and 50% in subsequent years. The share of school grant funding that went to
education quality inputs rose from 59.7% in 2009 to 74.54% in 2012/13, compared to a target of 66.8% (indicator
was introduced at restructuring).

There are indications that internal efficiency in PEC schools improved over the life of the project. Pass rates in
PEC primary schools went from 96% in 2009 to 99% 2012/13 and from 89% to 92% in secondary schools. Drop
out rates fell from 0.041 to 0.038 in PEC primary schools and from 0.054 to 0.052 in PEC secondary school over
the same time period (no targets were set for these indicators). The ICR states that both rates are better for PEC
schools than non-PEC schools, but no pass and drop out rates are presented for non-PEC schools. Data on
pass and drop out rates provided to IEG after the ICR was received confirms this, though differences are small
and the gap has been narrowing. The ICR ascribes these improvements partially to increased community
engagement and accountability at the school level. Given that some non-PEC schools may have benefitted from
other programs (e.g PETC) and without knowing more about the characteristics of each school group, however,
comparisons between PEC and non-PEC groups do not permit the drawing of firm conclusions on the extent to
which such improvements can be attributed to PEC. Prior impact evaluations of similar programs in Mexico
showed that increased parental and community involvement in schools did lead to reduced drop out, repetition,
and failure rates.

Reorient school grants to improve learning outcomes : Modest
    In terms of learning outcomes, PEC schools witnessed an increase in average math assessment scores at both
    primary schools (average score increase from 503 to 560) and secondary schools (average score increase from
    494 to 537). Spanish scores also increased in primary PEC schools (from 498 to 534), but not in PEC secondary
    schools (drop from 485 to 481). No information is presented on the evolution of Spanish and Math scores in non
    PEC schools, making it difficult to conclude that learning improvements are due to the PEC program. Previous
    impact evaluations in Mexico found no impact of school-based management programs on learning outcomes.

5. Efficiency:

    Modest. An ERR was not calculated at appraisal. The ICR points out that PEC, at a per student unit cost of $14
    per year, is substantially lower than that of the PETC program ($167), but the latter program is not comparable in
    nature to the PEC, as it involves additional activities. Decreased repetition rates in PEC schools allow for cost
    savings at the school level. Students' ability to start earning income earlier due to reduced repetition rates, as
    well as decreased drop out rates, should help lead to higher future earnings, and such improvements would
    factor as benefits into an ERR calculation. The ICR states that the ERR of the program as a whole was 6.5%, but
    no information is provided as to how this rate was calculated.

    Implementation delays and delays in getting grants disbursed to schools in some years point to sub-optimal
    efficiency in the use of project resources.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       No

    ICR estimate                   Yes                                       6.5%                                    100%
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Under both the original and revised outcome targets, relevance of objectives is rated substantial, relevance of
    design is rated modest, achievement of three objectives is rated substantial, and achievement of the fourth
    objective is rated modest. Efficiency is rated modest. The project helped to introduce measures that made PEC
    more accessible to marginalized and indigenous modality schools, and drop out and repetition rates were
    reduced in PEC schools, though in the absence of an impact evaluation attribution is not entirely clear. Some
    learning outcomes also improved in PEC schools, but again attribution is not clear. Taken together, these ratings
    are indicative of moderate shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an
    outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory, under both the original and revised key outcome targets. Overall
    outcome is therefore rated Moderately Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The school-based management model supported by the project is an integral part of the Mexican Government's
    longer-term education policy and has been enshrined in recent legislative changes in support of education
    reform. Elements of the PEC program have been adopted in two other programs that support school based
    management, while PEC also continues and the compendium of federal programs in support of school based
    management is further supported by a follow-on Bank project. However, the fact that some of the states that
    have a high rate of schools in marginalized areas and indigenous modality schools dropped out from participation
    during the last project year puts initial achievements in those states in question unless they are picked up by
    other programs. It is not known to what extent gains achieved at the school level will be maintained after a school
    graduates from the program, particularly schools in marginalized areas.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:
a. Quality at entry:

   Project design built on the experience of the first phase APL project, but it failed to fully take the lessons from
   that operation into consideration. In particular, the Bank failed to take into consideration the administrative
   and procurement challenges related to producing technical assistance and consulting services for studies that
   had already emerged during the first evaluation. As a result, the project ended up not supporting any of these
   studies, and the impact evaluation fell through.

   The formulation of the project's objective was convoluted and inconsistent between the DCA and the PAD,
   and the results framework included indicators that were either ill-defined or not entirely adequate for effective
   project monitoring. Finally, project design should also have paid more attention to ensuring effectiveness of
   training in school management at the school level.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Borrower's ICR (p. 38) points out that Bank staff provided useful technical support to help detect,
   reformulate, and improve PEC program areas that needed revision throughout project implementation, and
   that regular supervision missions contributed to ensuring effective overall program supervision. Bank
   safeguards and fiduciary staff regularly participated in supervision efforts and helped ensure effective
   implementation of the indigenous people plan and adequate flow and accounting of funds from the Trust Fund
   to schools. As the ICR points out, however, the Bank would have done well to undertake the level 2
   restructuring earlier and to clarify whether or not the project sought to improve learning outcomes and
   efficiency improvements.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government demonstrated support for the PEC program throughout project implementation and ensured
   sufficient allocation of federal level funds to ensure its effective implementation. The National Financial
   Development Bank (NAFIN), in its capacity as fiduciary agent of the loan, ensured effective follow-up on
   fiduciary aspects. Performance of participating states was variable, with some states failing to allocate
   state-level counterpart funds sufficiently early to ensure that funds would reach schools in time to implement
   school improvement plans efficiently, and some failing to ensure participation overall by missing the deadline
   for putting up state counterpart funds. States' adherence to PEC operating rules was variable, and not all
   made equal efforts to ensure participation by schools in marginalized areas.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The Federal Education Secretary remained committed to the program and ensured effective flow of funds to
   schools. It provided state education offices with guidance and assistance to help ensure the latter understood
   program rules and focused on vulnerable schools. The Borrower's ICR (p. 35) points out that frequent rotation
   of staff at the federal and state levels at times hindered continuity and effective follow-up and that there were
   insufficient personnel at the national coordination unit and at the state level to support PEC implementation in
   schools in remote areas. At the national level, the implementing agency could have been more proactive in
   ensuring that technical assistance activities and the impact evaluation were implemented on time.
  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The original results framework failed to include indicators to measure all aspects of the PDO, and it included
   some indicators that were ill defined and others that were difficult to measure. Project design included a
   community survey to assess the evolution of parental and community participation at the school level and an
   impact evaluation to measure the effects of the project on school efficiency and learning outcomes. Project
   design also included support to improve the PEC program's MIS. The project failed to include any assessment of
   the effectiveness of states' support to schools and of training on school management, and there was no feedback
   loop on performance to schools.

b. M&E Implementation:

   While some monitoring data were periodically collected, the ICR (p. 7) states that M&E remained weak through
   much of project implementation. Core indicators were revised during a level 2 restructuring after almost three
   years of implementation. The impact evaluation was not undertaken due to procurement delays and difficulties in
   its design. One round of the community engagement survey was undertaken as a follow-up to an earlier survey,
   but a second round did not follow due to lengthy procurement procedures. The improvement of the program MIS
   fell short of expectations, as not all states' MIS were rendered fully compatible with that at the national level, and
   some states failed to submit timely information, making it difficult to effectively follow program implementation for
   all states at the national level.

c. M&E Utilization:

   According to the ICR (pp. 7-8), available monitoring information was used to take corrective action to core
   aspects of the program, such as the timing for state counterpart contributions, focus on marginalized areas, and
   requirements to allocate a certain amount of school grants to inputs directed at education quality.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   This was a category C project. The indigenous people's safeguard (OP/BP 4.10) was triggered, and according to
   the ICR (p. 8), the Indigenous People's Plan (IPP) for the program was effectively implemented. The project in its
   last year reached almost twice as high a share of indigenous schools as the target set in the IPP.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:


   The ICR states (p.8) that minor shortcomings in financial management existed, but its does not elaborate on the
   nature of these shortcomings. It states that these shortcomings did not prevent timely and reliable provision of
   information to effectively monitor project performance. Audit reports were regularly submitted to the Bank.
   Ex-post procurement reviews were carried out in a number of participating states and minor weaknesses related
   to record-keeping and requests for price quotations identified, but these had no material impact on compliance
   with procurement requirements. The ICR (p. 20) states that procurement and financial management requirements
   were unnecessarily complicated and burdensome for participating schools.
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

     The experience of the PEC program has inspired the adoption of a new nationwide school autonomy policy
     anchored in legislation adopted in 2013.


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Moderate          While the program continues beyond
                     Outcome:                                                 this project and its continued expansion
                                                                              is supported by a follow-up Bank
                                                                              operation, two states with high rates of
                                                                              indigenous modality schools and
                                                                              schools in marginalized areas dropped
                                                                              out of the program during the last year
                                                                              of the program because they did not
                                                                              meet the state counterpart contribution
                                                                              requirement. It is not known to what
                                                                              extent they will reenter the program in
                                                                              the future. Furthermore, there is a time
                                                                              limitation to program participation of
                                                                              each school, and it is not clear to what
                                                                              extent gains achieved under the
                                                                              program can be maintained after a
                                                                              school graduates from the program.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

     The ICR (pp. 19-20) contains the following lessons, which IEG fully supports:

    Evaluating the impact of school autonomy programs on learning outcomes creates considerable
     methodological challenges in programs where a school's participation is voluntary because of the self-selection
     bias. Yet it is essential to know whether such programs indeed help achieve the ultimate objective of
     improving education quality and learning outcomes. Therefore, the design of such evaluations requires careful
     thought from the outset.
    Local education authorities play a key role in the implementation of federal programs such as PEC. It is
     therefore important that state agencies have the capacity to help implement a program and that the technical
     support extended to them is in line with local capacity needs.
    States can adequately monitor and evaluate program performance only if they are provided with the means
     and incentives to properly report the necessary information.
    Effective program implementation depends on states providing their counterpart contribution on time, and
     hence measures need to be identified that they do so.
    Use of country systems for the procurement of consulting services in countries with a strong fiduciary
     environment, such as Mexico, helps avoid unnecessary implementation delays caused by the application of
     dual (Bank and country) rules.
    The potential positive effects of school autonomy can only be fully reaped if capacity at the school level exists
     to adequately assess school performance and challenges at the school level, if a plan is devised and
     implemented to effectively address those challenges, and if attention is paid to providing effective training for
     school managers.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


     The ICR is overall well written and documents project achievements with available evidence, though it could have
     included a more thorough discussion of the linkages between project outputs and achievement of objectives and
     of implementation challenges. A shortcoming of the ICR is that it does not report on total actual project costs, or
     on the actual Government contribution.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
