Report No. PID10724
Project Name             Turkey-Second Programmatic Financial and (@)
Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL II)
Loan amount              US$1.35 billion (US$550 million on
standard IBRD terms and US$800
million on special IBRD terms)
Region                   Europe and Central Asia
Sector                   Private and Financial Sector Development;
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID               TRPE70560
Borrower                 Government of Turkey
Implementing
Agency                   Undersecretariat of Treasury
Ankara, Turkey
Environment
Category                 C
Date This PID Prepared   February 13, 2002
Date Initial PID
Prepared                 September 27, 2001
Appraisal Date           January 2002
Projected Board Date     April 2002
The Programmatic Approach to Structural Adjustment
1.      In mid-2001, the Government of Turkey (GOT) and the
Bank agreed upon a comprehensive reform agenda for
financial and public sector reform--including a set of near-
term and medium-term objectives--in response to the
economic crisis triggered by the currency devaluation in
February 2001. Defining achievable medium-term goals
during a financial crisis is extremely difficult. Given
that these objectives may need to be adjusted from time to
time as economic and social conditions develop, the GOT and
the Bank agreed to a flexible, programmatic approach. A
core set of immediate actions formed the conditionality for
the first US$1.1 billion Programmatic Financial and Public
Sector Adjustment Loan approved in July 2001. The next
phase of the program formed the triggers (i.e., fixed
conditionality) and benchmarks (i.e., actions which could
be amended as conditions changed) for PFPSAL II. More
medium-term objectives of the program in 2003-04 would be
supported by follow-up programmatic lending in the
financial and public sectors as described in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report discussed by the
Bank's Board in July 2001.
2.      Some of the significant accomplishments of PFPSAL,
upon which PFPSAL II will build, are as follows:



In the financial sector:
Introduction of tax deductibility of loan loss
provisioning and of new connected exposure limits
bringing the limits in line with applicable EU
Directives in a phased manner;
Adoption by the Board of the Bank Regulation and
Supervision Agency (BRSA) of a strategic institutional
development plan for the agency;
Intervention in insolvent private banks by SDIF, and
agreement on into capital restoration plans with
undercapitalized but still solvent banks;
Elimination of the large overnight borrowing needs of
the state-owned banks Ziraat and Halk and the banks
intervened by the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund (SDIF
- the agency responsible for bank failure resolution
and administration of the deposit insurance scheme),
with a view to relieve undue pressure on interest
rates; and initiation of mergers and sales of the SDIF
intervened banks;
Resolution of the insolvent state-owned bank Emlak
through merger of its banking assets and liabilities
with Ziraat and liquidation of its non-banking assets
and liabilities; and
Recapitalization of Ziraat and Halk.
In the public sector
Implementation of additional fiscal measures under the
supplementary 2001 budget adopted in June 2001;
Establishment of policies and benchmarks to protect
public expenditure envelopes for health, education and
social protections;
Preparation of a multi-year strategy for public
expenditure management (PEM) reform encompassing
budget reform, upgrading of financial accountability
to international standards, and strengthened public
liability management; and
Initiation of work on a national strategy to improve
governance and combat corruption.
Country and Sector Background
3.      The combination of an oversized public sector living
beyond its means and inadequate management of existing
resources has generated structural macroeconomic
imbalances, which have thwarted successive attempts at
disinflation in Turkey. During the 1990s, these imbalances
and the constant search for financing of chronic public
sector deficits became intertwined with financial sector
weaknesses in a vicious circle. The state-owned banks were
used to finance government-mandated subsidized lending to
agriculture and SMEs. This recourse to quasi-fiscal
financing directly undermined financial sector stability.
In parallel, the emergence of a lucrative domestic market
for high return Government bonds indirectly contributed to
financial sector instability as banks became dependent on
- 2 -



artificially inflated profits from investments in
government paper. Faced with prohibitively high interest
rates, the Government traditionally relied on the inflation
tax to keep the public debt under control. However, this
created a deeply ingrained pattern of inflationary
expectations, which has blocked financial sector deepening
and promoted currency substitution.
4.      The exchange rate based disinflation program launched
in late 1999 was a bold and ultimately unsuccessful attempt
to break the unsustainable cycle of inflation, financial
sector weakness, high interest rates and ever increasing
public indebtedness. The program included ambitious
structural reforms. A major reform of the public pension
system was undertaken in August 1999 and ambitious reforms
were launched in the agriculture, energy and
telecommunications sectors. In the financial sector, a new
commercial bank law was passed in December 1999 that called
for the creation of a new independent bank regulatory
agency, initiated a much needed overhaul of the banking
sector regulatory regime and enhanced the powers of the
SDIF, the agency responsible for bank failure resolution
and administration of the deposit insurance scheme. After
some early success including a rapid decline in interest
rates, resistance to particular aspects of the program
began to increase during the course of 2000. The
macroeconomic risks quickly built up and the program
eventually collapsed at its weakest point, the financial
sector. In late February 2001, Turkey experienced a major
currency crisis, which forced the Government to abandon the
crawling peg exchange rate and float the Lira. The
immediate cause of the crisis is attributable to weaknesses
in the financial sector. However, its deeper roots lie in
the problems with the structure and management of the
public sector that are at the core of Turkey's chronic
macroeconomic instability.
5.      In mid-2001, the Government prepared a new economic
program to overcome the immediate impact of the February
crisis while setting the stage for an early resumption of
disinflation and growth. The program targets a more
gradual disinflation path, together with a renewed emphasis
on structural reforms. By moving to address the
fundamental structural problems underlying the crisis, with
a strong focus on restructuring the banking and public
sectors, the Government hopes to engineer a quick recovery
closer to the experience of Brazil and Korea, and avoid the
prolonged recession that some other crisis countries have
experienced. The program is based on a three-pronged
strategy: (i) macroeconomic policies geared towards
restoring financial stability and resuming the disinflation
process; (ii) structural policies aimed at correcting the
financial sector and public sector weaknesses underlying
the crisis, together with renewed efforts to improve the
investment climate and promote private sector development;
- 3 -



and (iii) strong social policies including increased
emphasis on protecting the most vulnerable groups of
society.
Turkey's Financial Sector Reform Program
6.      In the aftermath of the February 2001 crisis, the
Government has committed to a significant acceleration and
widening of the scope of the financial sector reform
effort. This is clearly necessary to restore banking
system confidence and put the banking system on a
sustainable path towards competitiveness at the
international level and towards EU accession. As part of
the widened scope of its financial sector reform effort,
and once the initial phase of immediate urgent post-crises
banking sector reform and restructuring activity is over,
the Government will also implement a comprehensive non-bank
financial institutions reform program, to complement the
banking sector reform effort. While NBFI activity in
Turkey is currently limited, it is anticipated that this
activity could grow rapidly once the macro-economic
situation stabilizes. As banks are the key players in NBFI
activity, and as it is anticipated that in the aftermath of
the banking crisis stronger, larger banks with a universal
mandate will appear, a proactive approach on the part of
the Government will be necessary to manage the risks and
vulnerabilities of such rapid NBFI growth.
7.      As the experience in other crisis countries (e.g.,
East Asia, Latin America) has shown, banking crisis
resolution efforts will take time. Therefore, the
Government has structured its financial sector reform
effort in two phases, with the first phase focused
primarily on implementation of urgent banking system reform
and restructuring efforts, and the second phase focused
more on the medium term broad based financial sector
development agenda. As such, this effort will stretch over
several years.
8.      The initial phase of the Government's multi-year
reform program supported by PFPSAL has focused on measures
in the following four areas: (i) acceleration of upgrades
to banking system prudential regulation; (ii) institutional
development of the new Bank Regulation and Supervision
Agency (BRSA); (iii) accelerated resolution of problem
banks and failed banks already intervened by the SDIF; and
(iv) comprehensive financial restructuring of the state-
owned banks Ziraat and Halk, and resolution of the
insolvent state-owned Emlak bank. The second phase of the
reform program, to be supported by PFPSAL II, will focus
on: (i) finalizing the overhaul of the banking system
prudential regime; (ii) continued institutional development
of the BRSA and initiation of a comprehensive institutional
development effort at the SDIF; (iii) completion of the
resolution of all banks already intervened by the SDIF;
(iv) recapitalization of all undercapitalized private
- 4 -



banks, through a combination of owner and Government
support, and SDIF intervention of any remaining insolvent
private banks; and (v) comprehensive operational
restructuring and initiation of privatization of the state-
owned banks Ziraat and Halk, and sale of the state-owned
bank Vakif. The follow-up reform efforts in the banking
area (especially the completion of the state-owned bank
privatization effort) as well as the reform efforts in the
NBFI segment of the financial sector will be rolled out
during late 2002 and early/mid 2003.
Turkey's Public Sector Reform Program
9.      The Government's public sector reform program aims to
underpin sustained fiscal adjustment and create the
conditions for transparent and effective government. In
combination with the financial sector reform program, the
public sector reform addresses the underlying structural
factors that led to the crisis, thereby trying to ensure
that these conditions do not recur in the future. In
particular, the program aims to break the vicious circle of
inadequate public sector management leading that fuels
financial sector weakness. The reform aims to achieve
permanent fiscal adjustment; as well as radical
improvements in public policy formulation, the framework
for resource mobilization and allocation, the system of
public oversight and accountability, and public sector
governance. This is an agenda for modernizing the Turkish
state to meet the challenges of the new century.
10.     The reform program focuses on three priority actions,
each of which has a medium-term dimension; (i) implement
structural fiscal policies to ensure permanent fiscal
adjustment; (ii) launch a medium-term program of policy and
institutional reforms to improve the transparency and
efficiency of public expenditure management including
action to improve budget preparation and execution, policy
formulation, and the operational performance of public
agencies; and (iii) initiate broad based institutional
reforms to improve the quality of public sector governance.
In each of these areas, the Government has developed or is
preparing a strategic approach to guide its actions over
the next three years.
In the area of structural fiscal policies, the approach
is based on (i) a medium-term strategy for improving the
tax system and (ii) a comprehensive public employment
program to adjust staffing levels in the central
government and SEEs, both of which are now in place.
With regard to public expenditure management, the
Government prepared a three-year Strategic Framework for
Public Expenditure Management Reform, which draws on the
Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (PEIR)
prepared jointly with the Bank.
In the area of public sector governance, a high-level
- 5 -



steering committee has finalized preparation of a
national strategy for improving governance and combating
corruption, which is under review by the Government.
11.     The initial phase of the multi-year public sector
reform program was supported by the PFPSAL. It focused on
sustaining the fiscal adjustment and setting into motion
the key change processes for institutional reform
including: (i) deeper structural fiscal polices to sustain
the fiscal adjustment; (ii) the PEM reform process
including preparation of key legislation to underpin
improvements in public procurement and liability
management; and (iii) preparation of the national strategy
to improve governance and fight corruption. The second
phase of reforms to be supported by PFPSAL II will focus
on: (i) introduction of structural fiscal policies paving
the way for permanent fiscal adjustment; (ii)
implementation of the first round of PEM reform including
rationalization of the public investment program; (iii)
enactment of legislation on public procurement and public
debt management; and (iv) adoption and publication of the
national anti-corruption strategy. Additional reform
efforts, including deepening of the PEM reform, steps to
retrench employment in the state economic enterprises
(SEEs), and deeper institutional changes in the areas of
tax administration, financial accountability and public
sector governance--including civil service reform--are
planned for 2002 and beyond.
The Proposed Loan
12.     The proposed US$1.35 billion (US$550 million on
standard IBRD terms and US$800 million on special IBRD
terms) Second Programmatic Financial and Public Sector
Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL II) continues to support the
Government's multi-year financial and public sector reform
program and builds upon the measures already taken under
the first FFPSAL. The main objective of the proposed PFPSAL
II is to support the next phase of the Government's
financial and public sector reform program, while ensuring
that social programs continue to be adequately funded. Key
priorities include, in the financial sector: (i) finalizing
the overhaul of the banking system prudential regime; (ii)
continued institutional development of the BRSA and
initiation of a comprehensive institutional development
effort at the SDIF; (iii) completion of the resolution of
all banks already intervened by the SDIF; (iv)
recapitalization of all undercapitalized private banks,
through a combination of owner and Government support, and
SDIF intervention of any remaining insolvent private banks;
and (v) comprehensive operational restructuring and
initiation of privatization of the state-owned banks Ziraat
and Halk, and sale of the state-owned bank Vakif; and in
the public sector: (i) structural fiscal policies, (ii)
public expenditure management, (iii) financial
accountability, (iv) public liability management, and (v)
- 6 -



public sector governance. The PFPSAL II will provide
budgetary support to help the Government finance the costs
arising from the crisis while continuing to fund its
critical social programs.
13.     The principal benefits of the Loan will be to: (i)
support the Government's macroeconomic policy framework
which aims to overcome the affects of the February crisis
and create the conditions for renewed growth and
disinflation, (ii) restore confidence in the banking
system; (iii) strengthen the foundation for an efficient
and sound banking system which can be competitive in
quality and performance at the international level; (iv)
reduce the vulnerability of the banking system and enhance
its capacity to withstand external shocks and thereby
reduce systemic failure risk; (v) position Turkey's banking
sector for accession to the European Union (EU) by starting
the process of aligning the prudential regime for the
banking system with applicable EU banking sector
directives; (vi) support structural fiscal measures to
underpin the sustainability and quality of the fiscal
adjustment needed to achieve macroeconomic stability while
ensuring that social spending is protected; (vii) lay the
foundation for durable improvements to public expenditure
management and fiscal transparency in line with
international standards; and (viii) raise the quality of
public sector governance.
14.     The risks associated with the Government's financial
and public sector reform program arise from macroeconomic
factors, political factors and institutional weaknesses.
The key macroeconomic risk is that real interest rates will
remain higher than projected which would delay the economic
recovery and affect public debt sustainability. A related
macroeconomic risk factor is Turkey's vulnerability to both
internal and external shocks as evidenced by the impact of
the September 11 events. The commercialization and
privatization of the state-owned banks is a major political
and organizational challenge for the Government. The rapid
restructuring of Ziraat and Halk also has significant
fiscal and social implications (the latter as a result of
large-scale branch closures and staff reductions). While
the Government has so far been able to raise sufficient
resources to finance the restructuring of the state banks
and the resolution of the banks under the SDIF, the public
debt has increased sharply as a share of GNP. Continued
tight fiscal discipline and further reform actions to
bolster the confidence of domestic and international
investors in Turkish sovereign debt instruments will be
essential. Finally, implementation of the recapitalization
scheme for undercapitalized private banks will test the
capacity of the BRSA and may run into resistance from the
owners of the banks concerned. The public sector reform
agenda is politically sensitive and may be jeopardized by
resistance of vested interest groups that would prefer to
- 7-



maintain the status quo. Capacity constraints and crisis
management efforts at key Government agencies may also slow
down the pace of the envisaged public sector reforms.
15.     The support of the Bank under PFPSAL II and the
broader country assistance strategy is instrumental in
assisting the Government to overcome these risks and
sustain implementation of its economic reform program.
Contact Points:
Bank :
Lalit Raina, ECSPF
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Tel No.:(202) 458-2900
Fax No.:(202) 522-0005
James Parks, ECSPE
The World Bank
Ugur Mumcu Caddesi No.88
Ankara, Turkey
Tel No.(90-312)446-3824
Fax No.(90-312)446-2442
Borrower:
Mr. Ersen Ekren
Undersecretariat of Treasury
In-no Bulvan No. :36
06510 Emek Ankara, Turkey
Tel. No."        (90.312) 213 6873
Fax No.:         (90.312) 212 8550
e-mail:          ersen.ekren@hazine.gov.tr
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
April 26, 2002.
-8-



