Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4656 TU
Loan Agreement
(Second Programmatic Financial and Public 
Sector Adjustment Loan)                                                                     
between 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 24, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4656 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to the loans (Loan No. 4632 TU and Loan No. 4633 TU) 
provided to the Borrower under the loan agreements, dated July 12, 2001, the Bank has provided 
assistance to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Borrower’s program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s financial and 
public sectors (the Program), as such program was described in the letter, dated June 18, 2001, 
from the Borrower to the Bank;
(B) 
the Bank has received a letter, dated March 19, 2002, from the Borrower: (i) 
describing its macro-economic framework and the Program, as revised since the date of the letter 
referred to in (A) above, which Program consists of actions taken under the first phase referred to 
in (A) above, and actions and policies that the Borrower has taken or intends to take and adopt in 
the near future (the Second Phase of the Program); (ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
(C)  
the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional assistance in 
support of the Second Phase of the Program and by an agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Bank (the Second PFPSSAL Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to 
provide such assistance in an amount equal to eight hundred million Dollars ($800,000,000) 
(Second PFPSSAL Loan); and 
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support of the 
Second Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in 
three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through  October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement: 
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read: “’Project’ means the second 
phase of the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the 
Loan is made.”; 
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: “Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”;
(d)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
Page  3
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”;  and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted, and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 and 
9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“BRSA” means the Bank Regulatory and Supervisory Agency of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
“Central Bank” or “CBT” means the Central Bank of the Borrower;
(c)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(d)
“GFS” means the government financial statistics published by the International 
Monetary Fund;
(e)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(f)
“PIP” means the Borrower’s annual Public Investment Program;
(g)
“SDIF” means the Savings and Deposit Insurance Fund of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank; 
(h)
“SEEs” means State Economic Enterprises;
(i)
“SPO” means the State Planning Organization of the Borrower;
(j)
“TCA” means the Turkish Court of Accounts of the Borrower; and
(k)
“Treasury” means the Undersecretariat of Treasury of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five hundred and fifty million 
Dollars ($550,000,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in 
support of the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its Central Bank, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or 
(ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank 
upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account: 
(i) 
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of $184,000,000, unless the 
Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank: 
(A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program;
(B) 
that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(C) 
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have been taken; and
(ii) 
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of $367,000,000, unless the 
Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank: 
(A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program;
(B) 
that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(C) 
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Page  5
Agreement have been taken.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above), the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.  
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
Page  6
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. Such new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the 
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Page  7
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program;
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Second PFPSSAL  Loan 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the Borrower has submitted to Parliament draft legislation (i) to extend the 
coverage of TCA audits to the Parliament and Presidency; and (ii) for external audit of TCA 
itself.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek - Ankara
Republic of Turkey
06510
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
HAZINE
44 232 HZM-TR
(312) 212-8550
Hazine, Ankara
44 404 HZM-TR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Kemal Dervis                              
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn                                               
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                          
-
Alcoholic beverages
121                          
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122                          
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                          
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718                         
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
Page  11
machinery
897                         
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                         
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
 SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2007
through April 15, 2017
27,500,000
Page  12
_____________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 
(d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Section I
:
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (i) of this Agreement
I.  Macroeconomic Framework
1.
The Borrower has implemented a satisfactory macro-economic framework  up to the time 
of the exchange of views referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, including  at least the 
first quarter of calendar year 2002, such macro-economic framework to be evaluated on the basis 
of the overall Program and with respect to domestic interest rates, inflation, maturity of new 
Government domestic borrowing, budget outcome and private capital inflows.
II.  Financial Sector Reform
A.  Regulatory Framework for Banking Activity
2.
The Borrower has developed satisfactory detailed actions plans for banks with excess 
connected exposures to reach compliance with the new banking law limits, including proposals 
to address any remaining legal/tax hurdles to merger/de-mergers necessary for implementing 
such action plans.
B.  Institutional Development of SDIF
3.
SDIF has prepared, and its Board has approved, a satisfactory time-bound strategic plan 
with clearly assigned implementation responsibilities to: (i) put in place a more effective 
organizational structure, with clearly separated line responsibilities for bank resolution efforts, 
asset management efforts, administration of the blanket guarantee and the deposit insurance 
scheme, and supporting functions such as legal, human resources and information technology; 
(ii) set performance targets for the bank resolution and asset management functions; (iii) 
envisage the hiring of additional qualified staff to handle the high volume of non-performing 
loans and other problem assets to be transferred to the Collections Department for 
collection/workout; and (iv) build a centralized and high quality management information system 
that will allow SDIF senior management and the SDIF Board to monitor progress being made 
towards reaching agreed resolution and asset management/collection targets.
Page  13
C.  Problem Bank/Bank Failure Resolution
4.
BRSA has issued satisfactory implementing regulations for the public support scheme 
for private bank recapitalization.
5.
SDIF has carried out satisfactory implementation of the asset resolution strategy, 
including transfer of all remaining assets to a specific asset resolution entity or its own 
departments.
6.
The Borrower has undertaken a satisfactory coordinated review of the improvements 
required in the legal framework for bankruptcy and collateral foreclosure and accelerated/more 
efficient non-performing loan resolution. 
D.  State Bank Restructuring and Privatization
7.
Halk and Ziraat have made satisfactory substantial progress towards unprofitable branch 
closures and excess staff reductions.
8.
The Borrower, through its Treasury, has made all interest payments to Ziraat and Halk on 
government bonds necessary for elimination of short term liabilities on the books of Ziraat and 
Halk in cash during 2002, as per the agreement between the Treasury and the management of 
Ziraat and Halk. 
III.  Public Sector Reform 
E.  Structural Fiscal Policies
9.
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of its medium-term 
strategy to improve the tax system.
10.
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of its comprehensive 
public employment program.
F.  Public Expenditure Management
11.
The Borrower’s MOF has issued a circular expanding the new GFS budget classification 
to all general government agencies.
12.
The Borrower has adopted a satisfactory action plan for further improvements in the PIP 
beyond 2002.
G.  Financial Accountability
13.
The Borrower has enacted legislation to extend the coverage of TCA audits to the 
Parliament and Presidency, and TCA has implemented the proposal for external audit of TCA 
itself.
Page  14
H.  Public Liability Management
14.
The Borrower has adopted regulations for the issuance of government guarantees in 
accordance with the public debt management law and for borrowing by SEEs.  
I.  Public Sector Governance
15.
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of its national 
strategy to enhance transparency and good governance in the public sector.
Section II
:
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement
I.  Macroeconomic Framework
1.
The Borrower has implemented a satisfactory macro-economic framework up to the time 
of the exchange of views referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, including  at least the 
second quarter of calendar year 2002, such macro-economic framework to be evaluated on the 
basis of the overall Program and with respect to domestic interest rates, inflation, maturity of 
new Government domestic borrowing, budget outcome and private capital inflows.
II.  Financial Sector Reform
A.  Regulatory Framework for Banking Activity
2.
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of the action plans 
for banks with excess connected  exposures.
B.  Problem Bank/Bank Failure Resolution
3.
With respect to capital deficient banks, the Borrower has either implemented satisfactory 
capital restoration plans or implemented satisfactory SDIF resolution actions, including capital 
injections, interventions, mergers/closures for such banks.
4.
The Borrower has completed the resolution of any banks taken over by SDIF in  2001, 
including Turk Ticaret and Taris, subject to the final administrative court decision allowing for 
the resolution of these two banks.
C.  State Bank Restructuring and Privatization
5.
Halk and Ziraat have completed all necessary branch closures and excess staff 
reductions.
6.
The Borrower, through its Treasury, has made all interest payments on government 
bonds necessary for elimination of short term liabilities on the books of Ziraat and Halk in cash 
during 2002, as per the agreement between the Treasury and the management of Ziraat and Halk, 
and adjusted for any major changes in the liability maturities in Ziraat and Halk.
7.
The Borrower has completed the privatization (100 percent) of Vakif.
Page  15
III.  Public Sector Reform
D.  Structural Fiscal Policies
8.
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of its medium-term 
strategy to improve the tax system.
9.
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of the 
comprehensive public employment program.
E.  Public Expenditure Management
10.
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of the GFS pilot 
program.
F.  Financial Accountability
11.
New accounting standards and chart of accounts for general government in compliance 
with GFS requirements have been published in the official gazette.
12.
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in implementing the new framework for 
public procurement, including the appointment of the Board for the Public Procurement Agency 
and enactment of amendments to the Public Procurement Law as agreed with the Bank.
13.
The Borrower has submitted to Parliament the draft Law on Public Financial 
Management and Financial Control.
G.  Public Sector Governance
14.
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the preparation of a civil service reform 
strategy.  
