                                          Documentof
                                     The World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                     ReportNo: 24104-CD




                             PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                     PROPOSEDCREDIT

                          INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 14.2MILLION
                              (US$20 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF CHAD

                                           FORAN

      AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCERORGANIZATIONS PROJECT

                                      November 11,2003




Environmental,Rural and SocialDevelopment CentralAfrica
Country Department07
Africa RegionalOffice




This document has a restricteddistribution andmaybe usedby recipientsonly inthe performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective Estimation for November 2002)

                              Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                                     1 FCFA = USs0.143
                                       US$1 = 700CFAF

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1st  -- December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASPOP      Agricultural Services and Producers Organizations Project
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CRGP       Competitive Research Grant Program
CTRC       Comite Technique de Riforme du sous-secteur Coton (Technical Support Unitfor
           the Cotton Reform)
EA         Environment Assessment
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
HIPC       Highly IndebtedPoor Country
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IEC        Information, Education, Communication
IPCMU      Inter-regional Coordination and Management Unit
I P M      Integrated Pest Management
JSDF       Japanese Social Development Fund
LDP        Local Development Program
M&E        Monitoringand Evaluation
MOA        MinistryofAgriculture
NARS       National Agricultural Research System
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
NSC        National Steering Committee
OCAT       Organizational and Capacity Assessment Tools
NPCMU      National Project Coordination and Management Unit
PIDR       Plan d'lntervention pour le Dkveloppement Rural (Rural Development Support Plan)
P I M      Project Implementation Manual
AFAM       Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual
PO         Producers Organization
PSAP       Projet des Services Agricoles et Pastoraux (Agricultural and Livestock Services Project)
PSC        Project Steering Committee
PSMC       Producers Services and Management Centers
RDF        Rural Development Facility
RNF        Rural NonFarm
RTF        Rural Technology Facility
 sc         Selection Committee
 SCI        Small Cottage Industry
 S N R A   National Agricultural Research System (Systeme1Viltional de Recherche Agricofe)
 STP-I1     Second Sector Transport Project
 TA         Technical Assistance
TSIP       Transport Sector Investment Program
TSU        Technical Support Unit




                             Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                           Country Director:     Ali Khadr
                            Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
                              Task Manager:      Ousmane Seck

                                                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                     CHAD
            AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCERORGANIZATIONSPROJECT


                                                  CONTENTS




    A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

       1. Project development objective                                                      2
       2: Key performance indicators                                                         2

    B. Strategic Context

       1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      4
       2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
       3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 9

    C.Project Description Summary

       1. Project components                                                                 10
       2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      14
       3. Benefits and target population     ,                                               14
       4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      16

    D.ProjectRationale

       1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          18
       2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies       19
       3. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design                                  19
       4. Indications o f borrower commitment and ownership                                  20
       5. Value added o f Bank support in this project                                       21

    E. Summary ProjectAnalysis

       1. Economic                                                                           21
       2. Financial                                                                          22
       3. Technical                                                                          22
       4. Institutional                                                                      23
       5. Environmental                                                                      24
       6. Social                                                                             26
       7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 27


    F Sustainability and Risks

       1. Sustainability                                                                     28
       2. Cntical risks                                                                      28

This document hasa restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    29


G. Main Credit Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           30
  2. Other                                                                             30

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        30

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                           30



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        31
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                   38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       45
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         46
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-EamingProject Entities, or Financial Summary    50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     51
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   69
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                  71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          73
Annex 11:Synergy between PROADELand ASPOP                                              75
Annex 12: Environmental Mitigationand Monitoring Plan                                  78
Annex 13: Examples o f Competitive Research Activities                                 91

                                                         CHAD
                               Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project

                                         Project Appraisal Document
                                                 Africa Regional Office
                                                        AFTS3

Date: November 11,2003                                      Team Leader: Ousmane Seck
Sector Manager: JosephBaah-Dwomoh                           Sector(s): Agricultural extension andresearch(6O%),
Country Director: Ali Khadr                                 Irrigation and drainage (30%), Agricultural marketing and
Project ID: PO74266                                         trade (10%)
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)           Theme(s): hmlmarkets (PI, Rural non-farm income
                                                            generation (S), Technology diffusion (S)
                                                            -                         _ _
Project Financing Data
 [ ]Loan        [XI Credit      [ ]Grant         [ ]Guarantee         [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 20.0

Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                    Years to maturity: 40
                                                            Service charge: 0.75%
                                                                          -
Financing Plan (US$m):         Source                                    Local            Foreign          Total
BORROWER                                                                             I                 1       2.81
[DA                                                                         17.45
                                                                             2.81             2.55
                                                                                              O.OO           20.00



Borrower: REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Ministry o fAgriculture, Ministryo f Livestock, MinistryofEnvironment and Water
Address: N'Djamena, Chad
Contact Person: M. Boubakari Hamadou
Tel: (235) 52 37 63                 Fax: (235) 51 51 19                -Email:
Estimated DisbursementsI Bank FYlUSSmk
           ~-
    FY     I  2004      I 2005     I    2006    I  2007   I
    Annual      6.60        6.61         6.41         5.00
Sumulative      6.60       13.21        19.62        24.62
Project implementationperiod: 4 years
Expected effectivenessdate: 0313112004 Expected closing date: 0913012008

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

 1. Project developmentobjective: (see Annex 1)

 The development objective o f the proposed Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project
 (ASPOP) i s to increase agricultural productivity and rural incomes while preserving the natural resource
base.

 The proposed project would support this objective by financing productivity-raising interventions and
 strengthening the institutional and technical capacities of producer organizations, government institutions,
 and private support services.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

 Some baseline data are available from the preceding Agricultural and Livestock Project (PSAP). In
addition, a comprehensive baseline study was conducted which provides a basis for setting appropriate
targets and would allow comparison o f key indicators at regular intervals. The project preparation team,
 drawn from the Ministry o f Agriculture, the Ministry of Livestock and the Ministry o f Environment and
Water, has prepared a detailed implementation manual; a monitoring and evaluation manual; and a manual
for administrative, accounting and financial management. The manuals have been agreed upon with IDA
and adopted by borrower duringnegotiations. Annex 1lists the indicators for measuring achievement o f the
proposed project's development objective. The targets for key indicators are presented in the following
table.



 Outcome and Impact Indicators
Project beneficiaries increaseproductivity o f the following major agricultural products concemed
by the project by 10%:
                         Baseline       BY Mid-term             BYProject-end
Millethorghum (kg/ha)        600                650                     700
Maize (kgha)                700                 800                     900
 Cotton (kglha)             700                 850                     900
 Groundnuts (kg/ha)         800                 850                     900
 Irrigatedrice (t/ha)        4.0                4.5                      5.0
 Milkproductivity (l/cow/day)
      Dry season             0.4                1.o                      2.0
      Rainy season           3.0                4.0                      5.0
 Mortality rate of chickens 70                  60                       50
             (%>
Reduction in cereal crop losses from about 30% to less than 20% at project-end.



Output Indicators
By the mid-term review, at least 1,250 subprojects on productive investments have been approved,
andat least 85% ofthemhave beenimplemented ina satisfactory manner.
By the mid-termreview, the quantity of products processedand marketed by producer Organizations
beneficiaries are 10%higher than the baseline average
By the mid-term review, at least 20% of all contracts for extension activities under subprojects on
productive investments have been awarded to the private sector.



                                                      - 2 -

By the mid-term review, at least 15 subprojects on short-term research programs have been
imdemented in a satisfactow manner.
 By the mid-termreview, at least one rural radio network managed by producer organizations has
 been established and is functioning ina satisfactory manner.
By the mid-term review, a network for private provision of veterinary services has been established,
i dis functioningina satisfactory manner.
By the mid-term review, aruralnetwork for collection anddissemination of technology and economic
linformationhas been develouedandi s functioning ina satisfactow manner.                              I
Bythe mid-term review, 15Producer Service ManagementCenters(PSMCs) havebeenestablished,
andat least 90% are functioning ina satisfactory manner.
Bythe mid-termreview, 80% ofcontracts signed by the NationalProject Coordinationand
Management Unit (NPCMU) and the six Inter-Regional Project Coordination andManagement Units
(IRPCMU) have beenexecutedon time.
By the mid-termreview, the procurement planfor the projecthasbeenimplementedina satisfactory
manner.
Bvthe endofthe uroiect. at least 60.000 uroducer's families are benefitingdirectlv from the uroiect.
By the end of the project, at least 3,000 subprojects on productive investments have been approved,
at least 90% o f them have beenimplemented ina satisfactory manner, and at least 40% o f themhave
been successfully implementedby women.
  Bythe end ofthe project, the quantityo fproducts processedandmarketedbyproductive
  investmentsbeneficiaries is at least 25% higherthanthe baselineaverage.
  By the end of the project, at least 30% of all contracts for extension services under subprojects on
  productive investmentshave been awarded to the private sector.
  By the end of the project, at least 50 subprojects on short-term research activities have been
  implemented in a satisfactory manner, and at least 30% o f them have been implemented by
  comuetitive researchbeneficiaries that are urivate sector serviceuroviders.
 By the end of the project, at least 70% of priority thematic research activities supported under the
 Project have been completed ina satisfactory manner.
By the end of the Project, 47 Producer Service Management Centers have been established, and at
least 90% o f them are functioning ina satisfactory manner.
By the endof the project, three rural radios networks managedby producer organizations have been
established and are functioning in a satisfactorv manner.

  Process Indicators
By the mid-term review, at least five training programs on environmental management have been
carried out for staff o f the Ministry o f Agriculture, the Ministry o f Livestock, and the Ministry of
Environment and Water. An environmental and social impact assessment has been carried out and
approved for all subprojectsinvolving water, fertilizer andpesticide use.
  By the mid-termreview, the texts on the legal status ofcotton producer organizations havebeen
  substantiallv imuroved.
By the endofthe first project year, a monitoring andevaluation system, for rural sector activitieshas
been established andi s operating ina satisfactory manner.
By the endofeach project year, all audit reports havebeenpreparedand issuedon time.
  Bythe endof eachproject year, the Special Account and SecondGeneration Special Accounts have
  been replenishedina satisfactory manner.

  Fulldetails ofindicators are presentedinthe logicalframework (Annex 1).

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goalsupportedby the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19365-CD           Date of latest CAS discussion: May 23,2000

The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presentedalongside this project, aims to help Chad
use its oil resources for poverty reduction through better governance and greater, more inclusive, non-oil
income earning opportunities. The second pillar o f the strategy focuses on developing the non-oil sector to
broaden the sources of growth. Rural development, and increased agricultural productivity, are core
priorities for the CAS. The project seeks to increase the productivity o f 2,000 producer organizations inthe
following major agricultural products:

                                   Baseline         BYend ofCAS period         BYproiect end
                                                            (FY06)                (FY09)

Millethorghum (kgha)               600                      660                       700
Maize (kgha)                       700                      850                       900
Groundnuts (kgha)                  800                      850                       900
Cotton ( k o a )                   700                      850                       900
Irrigatedrice (tha)                 4.0                     5.0                        5.0
Rainfall rice (t/ha)                 0.8                    0.9
Milkproductivity(Ucowlday)
    Dryseason                        0.4                    1.o                       2.0
    Rainy season                     3.0                    4.5                       5.0
Mortality rate o f chicken (%)       70                     55                        50

The proposed ASPOP would be the main instrument o f the CAS to enhance agricultural services and help
producer organizations raise agricultural productivity and rural incomes. The project would fmance
productivity-raising interventions and improve the institutional and technical capacities of producer
organizations, govemment institutions, andprivate support services. Doing so effectively entails takinginto
account lessons from previous projects, including the pilot activities implemented under the Agricultural
andLivestock Services Project (see section D.3).

Interventions under the proposed project would be complemented by activities aimed at developing market
transport routes in rural areas by improving the road network (through the National Transport Program
Support Project   - PAPRONAT), financing rural roads construction and maintenance (through the Local
Development Program Support Project, PROADEL, which i s expected to be presented to the Board in
FY04), and developingmarket infrastructure (through the UrbanProject, scheduled in FY05).

An explicit theme in the Bank's strategy is that operations funded by the International Development
Association (IDA), and the ASPOP in particular, should improve Chad's ability to use its oil revenues for
effective poverty reduction. It i s expected, as indicated inpara. 22(i) o f the Letter o f Sector Policy, signed
on 27 October 2003, that a portion o f oil revenues will finance producer organizations' needs as identified
by the participatory approachimplementedunderthe RuralDevelopment Support Plan (PIDR).




                                                      - 4 -

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poverty in Chad. Chad is one of the poorest countries inthe world. About 80% o fthe population lives on
less than US$1 a day. While poverty i s severe all over the country, it i s most prominent in the rural areas,
where about 80% o f the country's population resides. The average annual income per capita i s estimated at
US$250, but there i s a marked disparitybetween rural and urban areas, with average incomes of US$ 133
andUS$328 respectively.

The Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), adopted in June 2003, outlines a poverty
reduction strategy that builds on five strategic orientations: (a) improvingthe social, judicial, political and
economic environment; (b) ensuring rapid and sustained economic growth; (c) buildinghuman capital; (d)
improvingliving conditions for vulnerable groups; and (e) safeguardingandrestoring ecosystems.

The agricultural sector. About three-quarters o f Chad's population depends on agriculture for its
livelihood. Agriculture is responsible for about 40% of national income and 50% o f total exports. It
employs about 80% of the active work force. Women have a critical role in the sector, particularly in fruit
collecting, fishing, cattle rearing, and processing and marketing farm produce. Crop production dominates,
accounting for 50-65% of rural sector activities. Incrop production, food crop production contributes from
80-85% o f total output. Cotton is the main cash crop, followed by groundnuts and arabic gum. Livestock
production activities account for 30-40% o f agricultural income, fisheries 12%, andforestry 7%. The 1994
devaluation o f the CFA franc helped the sector grow an average o f about 4% annually between 1996 and
2001.

Despite the positive track record o f production increases, 43.4 % o f Chad's population remains below the
poverty line (ECOSIT I,1995). Widespread rural poverty illustrates the failure o f the Government and
donors to create a development process leading to widely shared rural growth. Agricultural production is
characterizedby low yields and low labor productivity. Yields o f most crops are as much as 30% smaller
than those in comparator countries. Year-to-year growth rates continue to be strongly affected by such
exogenous factors as world market prices and rainfall. The influence o f rainfall underscores the importance
o f natural resource managementpolicies, especially those relating to soil fertility and development o f water
resources.

However, Chad's agricultural sector has potential for improvement, and could make a significant
contribution to the reduction of poverty, if adequately developed. Chad has three main ecological zones.
The Saharan oasis and the Sahelian zone, face large climatic ecological constraints that limit their potential
as engines o f growth. The third, the southernmost Sudanian zone, offers the best agricultural potential, in
terms o f food crops and cash crops such as cotton and groundnuts.

If developmentistomakeasignificantcontributiontoChad'slong-termgrowth,severalproblem
   rural
areas must be addressed.

Inadequate rural infrastructure. A recent analysis o f Chad's donor-supported development activities by
the Ministry o f Agriculture found that rural areas have been acutely discriminated against in terms o f
getting a fair share o f resources, including access to funds needed to improve basic m a l
infrastructure-access    roads, potable water, electrification, communication facilities, and health and
education facilities necessary to enhance production. Schools for girls have been especially lacking. The



                                                     - 5 -

absence o f such infrastructures, together with poorly maintained roads, bridges and culverts, transport
facilities, market places, and poorly organized marketing arrangements, quality control, and information
networks, hinders advances in both agriculture and rural nonfarm sectors and make it difficult for farmers
andsmall rural nonfarm operators to expandproduction anddomestic andglobal marketing. They can only
produce limited quantities for local markets. Diversification to include perishables such as fruits and
vegetables i s almost impossible. The small scale o f operations inthe rural nonfarm sector results in higher
unitcosts andloss ofcompetitive advantage.

Inefficient cotton sub-sector. Cotton production in Chad remains an important economic activity.
Cotontchad, the state-owned cotton company, i s the country's largest exporter. About 350,000 farm
families rely on cotton as their main cash crop. However, since 1997 performance o f this subsector has
deteriorated. Cotontchad's accumulated losses were estimated at about CFAF 30 billion (US$ 50 million)
in 2003 due to management inefficiencies resulting from undue government interventions; high unit fmed
costs o f fiber production resultingfrom low productivity incotton cultivation; hightransport costs resulting
from poor road infrastructure; high transaction costs for the industry resulting from weak producer
organizations; and declining world prices resulting from subsidies by major producing countries.
Environmental degradation increasingly threatens the sustainability o f cotton production. Poverty thus
remains widespread inthe cotton-producing areas.

A plan for liberalizing the cotton sub-sector has been prepared. A qualitative Poverty and Social Impact
Assessment (PSIA) o f each liberalization scenario was completed inthe fall o f 2003. The Government had
planned to launch the bidding for privatizing Cotontchad by then, but Cotontchad's financial and
operational problems forced the Government to formulate an emergency rescue operation. Bidding i s
expected to begininthe secondhalf o f 2004 andto be completedby mid-2005.

Inefficient agricultural marketing system. Farming systems in Chad are based on low inputllow output
technologies. Fertilizer use is generally very limited and policy distortions still hamper agricultural growth.
For example, the Government controls the distribution o f produced seeds and fertilizer, and sources in
Cotontchad indicate that fertilizer        input prices    incorporate high taxes-22%           on combined
nitrogen-phosphate-potash (NPK), 7% on urea, and 22% on farm implements. As a result, yields of major
crops in Chad are smaller than those in comparator countries with similar agroclimatic conditions. For
example, in 1998/99 the cotton yield was 638 kilograms per hectare in Chad compared with 1,100
kilograms per hectare in Mali. Only 8% o f the area planted to cotton receives the recommended high
productivity packages o f 100 kilograms per hectare o f superphosphate (SP) and 50 kilograms per hectare
o f urea. Cotton performance i s further hampered by an unreliable market price information system and a
lack o f market integration. The cost o f moving commodities is high because o f long distances between
markets.

In addition, seasonal variations in prices are high, with a large disparity in prices for agricultural
commodities between the dry season andthe rainy season. Prices also vary greatly between rural and urban
areas.

Weak producer organizations and rural communities. Producer organizations can play a major role in
rural development. Besides marketing, supplying agricultural inputs, and providing social services,
producer organizations can participate inpolicymaking and defme the research and extension agenda. Chad
has an estimated 35,000 producer organizations, 31,000 o f them in the Soudanian zone and 4,000 in the
Sahelian zone. While producer organizations are active in agricultural production and development, their
managerial, organizational, technical, and financial capabilities are weak, and they often lack confidence in
their own ability. Furthermore, their representatives sometimes lack legitimacy inthe eyes o f the members,


                                                     - 6 -

especially in organizations that were initiated by external partners (the Government, donors,
nongovernmental organizations).

Poor delivery of agricultural extension and research services. Agricultural extension is not efficient
enough, and more private sector participation i s needed. The 2001 Agricultural Extension Strategy
emphasizes a decentralized, bottom-up approach and closer partnerships with nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) and the private sector, but implementationrequires training staff innew techniques,
decentralizing decisionmaking, and developing specific models on implementing proposed approaches. The
National Agriculture ResearchSystemhas major institutional difficulties, such as (a) inadequate provision
o f operational funds, (b) excessive focus on supply-driven research, (c) poor incentive structure for
scientists, and (d) isolation from external research. A major challenge for Chad in agricultural services i s
determining how to exploit the complementary efforts o f partners involved in research and extension
efforts, such as universities, regional research centers, NGOs, public and private institutions, farmer
service centers, national agricultural schools, and training centers. Meeting this challenge would allow
complementary scientific skills and technical resources to be tapped, and well-articulated research and
extension delivery systems to be developed, making them more demand-driven, efficient, and accountableto
producers.

Weak rural financial services.          The vast majority o f small farmers and small cottage industry
entrepreneurs have almost no access to institutional credit, a major problem for rural development. There is
no national policy on rural finance. Local banks have shown little interest in fmancing rural sector
activities, instead concentrating almost exclusively on financing the cotton sector and Cotontchad.
Moreover, local banks lack the centralized network o f branches neededto facilitate activities with potential
rural clients. The only financial services inrural areas are providedby isolatedinitiatives supported mainly
by the German Development Cooperation Agency (GTZ), the FrenchCooperation Agency, andNGOs. The
shallowness o f both formal and informal rural financial markets has hindered modernization o f the sector
andtransition to more lucrativenonfarm activities.

Inadequate capacity of public-sector institutions. Support services inrural areas are providedmainly by
such public institutions as the Ministry o f Agriculture, the Ministry o f Livestock, and the Ministry o f
Environment and Water. But collaboration among these ministries has proven ineffective, to the detriment
o f the country's agricultural performance. InJune 1999 as part o f a redefinition o f the role o f the state, the
Government proposed a new rural development framework. Legislative implementation, which is connected
to the recently approved administrative decentralization, i s still at a very early stage. Even within this new
framework, however, the roles and functions o f different state agencies, the private sector, and producer
organizations are not quite clear. The redefinition o f the role o f the state has decreased the efficiency o f
state interventions but has not let to any increased role for the private sector. Statistical and monitoring
functions inthe ministries involved inrural development are insufficiently developed and funded and poorly
coordinated, staff tending to regard them as less important than other development tasks. Relatedproblems
include inadequate training o f the staff involved in statistical and monitoring work and lack o f a real
structure for these tasks at the regional or departmental levels.

Fragile ecosystems. Soil fertility i s declining, and land degradation is increasing. Continuous cropping,
nonreplenishment o f nutrients extracted from the soil, wind and water erosion, andpoor land husbandry are
depleting the fertility o f soil and lowering crop yields. Even in the Sudanese zone, the most fertile region
with the highest rainfall, the problem o fland degradation has grown due to a lack o f appropriate production
techniques, including (a) limited use o f soil and water conservation measures; (b) lack o f improved
agricultural tools; (c) limited use o f organic and inorganic fertilizers; and (d)          inappropriate land
management techniques such as burning crop residues to clear fields, and reducing fallow periods.


                                                     - 7 -

Long-term overuse o f the land is a serious risk for the ecosystemand for the sustainability of agriculture.

Government strategy to address the sector-specific issues. The Government's national rural development
strategy was presented to the main donors during the Geneva IV Sectoral Consultation on Rural
Development inJune 1999. The objective o f the strategy i s to increase production ina sustainable way that
preserves the environment while reinforcing institutional and human capacities. The key elements of the
strategy are:

(a) Increasing agricultural productivity and improving agricultural marketing. This includes (i)         better
delivery of agricultural extension and research services, more access to agricultural inputs and credit, (ii)
enhanced effectiveness o f high-potential products, and (iii)improvedbasic rural infrastructure.

(b) Providing support to rural organizations. This includes strengthening the capacities o f producer
organizations and promoting the emergence o f new ones at the grassroots, district, and national
levels-with particular emphasison women andtranshumant herders.

(c) Promoting sustainable management of natural resources and restoration of production potential.
This includes (i)  consultation and consensus-building with rural communities, (ii)  promotion o f better soil
and water management, and (iii)     management o f rural space, conservation o f biodiversity, and prevention
o f desertification and deforestation.

(d) Improving the effectiveness of the public sector. A key part of Chad's development policy, the
effectiveness o f the public sector concems more than rural development. Achieving this objective requires
(i)redefining the Government's role in policy formulation, sectoral planning, and regulation; (ii)
reorganizing public services, through deconcentration o f their structures and decentralization o f
decisionmaking and management; and (iii)optimally allocating resources through multisectoral and
multithematic approaches developed ina participatory framework.

(e) Improving theprovision of basic services. This point, which concems the rural sector in its broader
sense, i s a precondition for the success of the rural development strategy. It requires the intervention of
other ministries besides the Ministry o f Agriculture, the Ministry o f Livestock, and the Ministry of
Environment and Water and includes (i)        strengthening primary schools in rural areas, (ii)    improving
primary      health   care,  (iii)strengthening      the communications      network     (transport,    media,
telecommunications), and (iv) improvingaccessto altemative energy sources other than fuel wood.

In 2000 the Government adopted a reform strategy to address the long-term economic and technical
viability of cotton production. Key features o f the strategy are (a) state disengagement from cotton
production, including privatization o f Cotontchad; (b) implementation of such support measures to cotton
producer organizations as capacity building; (c) improvement o f the road network; and (d) enhancement of
farmproductivitythrough moreeffective delivery ofextension andresearchservices. Implementation ofthe
reform strategy is well under way. By the end o f 2003 the Government i s expected to adopt a privatization
scenario for Cotontchad from several schemes developed with intemationalconsultants.

Inmid-2000, the ComitC technique de rkforme du sous-secteur coton (CTRC), the technical support unit
for cotton reform established by the Ministry o f Agriculture, implemented a program to support the
institutional development o f producer organizations relating to cotton ginning factory "zones usines." A
Bank-managed US$800,000 grant from the Japanese Social Development Fund (JSDF) has financed
related activities since May 2001. The program has focused on (i)  the collection and diffusion o f economic
and cotton-related information to cotton producers through the rural radio network and (ii)   the provision o f


                                                      - 8 -

managerial and organizational training to cotton producer organizations. Implementation o f the program
has been satisfactory and has improvedthe institutional development of cotton farmers organizations. But a
privatized and more open cotton industry needs more capacity building to make producer organizations
effective. The proposedproject is well placedto provide such support.

To implement its rural development strategy, the Govemment has created a Rural Development Support
Program (PIDR). Within the PIDR framework, and as stated in the CAS, the Bank i s supporting the rural
development strategy and cotton reform strategy with the ASPOP and the PROADEL. These two projects
are complementary but support different parts o f the development and reform strategies. They aim to create
sustainable growth in agricultural production, provide support to producer organizations, and support the
decentralization and delivery o f agricultural services. The ASPOP specifically addresses agricultural
productivity and marketing, rural organizations, and management o f rural space and the public sector,
while the thrust o f PROADEL is decentralization and community development. ASPOP aims to increase
agricultural production and productivity by improving farmers' access to productive infrastructure and
equipment, improving farming systems, promoting agricultural diversification, and strengthening the
capacities o f agricultural services (capacity building to strengthen the technical ministries, strengthening
capacities o f producer organizations and private sector development). PROADEL supports the
development o f community (public) property-rural      roads, health centers, and schools-whereas    ASPOP
supports private farmers' own investments. The two projects would work together to coordinate their
annual work programs so that community development (rural roads) and productive investment (irrigation
rehabilitation and technology transfer) go hand in hand. The synergy o f the two projects i s detailed in
paragraph C4 and inAnnex 11.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

 Support to be provided under ASPOP includes focusing on smallholder-related activities and areas not
supported by other agencies, such as the French Cooperation and the African Development Bank (ADB).
These agencies have actively participated in the institutional and organizational design o f this operation to
improve coordination of implementation and monitoring o frural sector activities.

Sustainable growth in agricultural production.              The project supports the identification and
implementation o f demand-driven, income-generating subprojects proposed by producer organizations. It
promotes a demand-driven approach to technology generation and transfer through a competitive research
grant program and provides extension services and training for implementation o f the subprojects. It also
supports thematic research critical for improving agricultural production. These activities, together with
extension advice for natural resourcemanagement, are expected to unleash the development potential o f the
rural sector, while also supporting nonfarm activities as part of the growth and poverty alleviation
strategies.

Soil fertility and water management.          The project supports investment in subprojects intended to
introduce innovative techniques innatural resource management, such as conservation tillage, agroforestry,
quickset hedges, and water retention pools. It promotes improvements in farming systems and thematic
research programs by facilitating the development o f techniques to reduce soil degradation and land
infertility by giving priority to appropriate selection criteria for approving subprojects. The project also
helps develop sustainable production o f firewood and establish seed and plant nurseries for restoring and
conserving soil.




                                                     - 9 -

Support to producer organizations.           Much o f the project focuses on strengthening producers'
participation in development efforts, enhancing their capacities to increase the responsiveness and
accountability o f service providers, and creating transparency in the planning and implementation of
subprojects. The project also supports capacity building,promotion of access to farm inputs, and collection
and dissemination of economic information and other cotton-related information for cotton producer
organizations.

Capacity strengthening for rural public sector institutions. The project promotes efficiency in
government rural ministries by financing improvements in their planning, monitoring, and market
information functions. Rural development partnerships between public institutions and the private sector
increase the competitiveness and efficiency o f the provision o f rural services. By developing productive
subprojects-all    on a demand-driven basis-the    project promotes contracting out the technical assistance
required to identify and implement these subprojects to state-sector providers, NGOs, and the private
sector.

Linkages with Bank-financed rural developmentprojects. The lack o f rural infrastructure i s addressed
by the National Transport Program Support Project and PROADEL. The Population and AIDS Project
and the Health Sector Support Project address HIV/AIDS. Together, these four projects address a range of
issues affecting the rural sector. Other donor agencies-French        Cooperation Agency, ADB, and the
International Fundfor Agricultural Development (IFADFare working inthe agricultural sector to support
the Government's strategy. This project is fully complementary to these donor initiatives and would in
addition introduce innovative approaches in promoting the contracting o f services for agricultural
extension, research delivery, and support to producer organizations.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components(see Annex 2 for adetailed descriptionandAnnex 3 for a detailedcost breakdown):

Project activities are clustered inthe following project components:

Project Component 1: Promotion of sustainable growth in agricultural production. Under this
component, the project finances (a) productive investments and (b) competitive research as demand-driven
subprojects.

(a) Productive investments. The subprojects promote the production, processing, and marketing o f farm
and livestock products. The project finances demand-driven productive investments proposed by producer
organizations and the technical assistance required for proper implementation, through a grant system with
an up-front farmers' contribution o f at least 20% o f subproject cost as defined in the Project
Implementation Manual. The beneficiaries o f the grants are legal entities. Women's associations should
receive special preference; at least 40% o f the subprojects should be run by women in a sustainable
manner. The subprojects include the following types o f activities:


0   Productive infrastructure. These subprojects include construction and management o f small-scale
    water management schemes such as water retention pools; development of small drainage and irrigation
    infrastructures for improved soil and water resource management; development o f fish ponds;
    establishment o f fish smoking facilities, storage, and rural veterinary facilities; use o f agroprocessing
    machinery; and the technical support needed to plan and implementthese subprojects.




                                                     - 1 0 -

    Agricultural development. These subprojects emphasize agricultural diversification, including (i)
    improvement o f existing farming systems, such as cotton; (ii)     development o f conservation farming
    techniques (no tillage) to preserve soil fertility and improve the environment in areas o f alley cropping,
    contour ridge terracing, cover crops, and living fences; (iii)demand-driven extension and training
    activities not necessarily linked to the above productive infrastructure subprojects but that are well
    targeted and contribute to the objective o f food security and agricultural diversification (such as
    establishment o f seed and plant nurseries and processing and marketing o f arabic gum, sesame,
    cashew, shea nuts and horticultural products); and (iv) better access to high quality genetic and
    planting material.

    Non-farm productive activities in rural areas.           These subprojects may include development of
    handicraft production and women's weaving rings, production o f building materials, establishment of
    repair shops, promotion of local blacksmithing, and the technical assistance required for the
    implementation of these subprojects.

Subproject preparation i s flexible, with a broad scope to combine or prepare separately any o f the above
activities. However, subprojects do not include basic social services and infrastructure of public interest
supported by the Local Development Program Support Project (PROADEL). They do not include
agricultural inputsthat could be supported through credit from other specialized institutions.

(b) Competitive research grant momam sub-projects. These subprojects support short-term (two to three
years) applied research aimed at fmding solutions to constraints on the productive investment subprojects,
both cotton and non-cotton-related. The project complements support from the French Cooperation Agency
and ADB. It finances small equipment, inputs, operational costs for the implementation o f subprojects,
training and study tours, and activities that support effective development o f linkages between small
farmers and agribusiness. Financing amounts and detailed implementationmechanisms for the Competitive
ResearchGrant Program are definedinthe Project Implementation Manual.

Project Component 2. Capacity building for agricultural services. Under this component, the project
finances jointly with French Cooperation Agency and ADB, (a) capacity strengthening o f producer
organizations, including cotton producer organizations; (b) specific support to cotton sector reform; and (c)
public and private sector development.

(a) Capacitv strengthening of OPs, including cotton producers organizations: Activities to be financed
underthis subcomponent would include:

e   Technical advisory services provided by a variety of rural service providers. These services,
    provided by NGOs, consulting firms, local contractors, and public institutions, help identify, prepare,
    and support implementation o f productive investment subprojects and manage Producer Services and
    Management Centers (PSMCs), specified below.

e   Training, workshops, and study tours. These activities enhance the ability o f producer organizations
    and their representative organizations (including the local coordination committees for the cotton
    subsector) to promote participatory approaches and the development o f basic accounting and
    procurement methods and to foster producer organization representation in state and regional steering
    committees comprising representatives of producer organizations, NGOs, donor organizations, and the
    private and public sectors.




                                                      -11 -

e   Collection and dissemination of technology and economic information to producer organizations.
    Communication specialists, collaborating with the rural radio network managed by producer
    organizations, have been contracted under the JSDF-funded program to carry out the first phase of
    these activities. The project, with the United Nations Development Program and French Cooperation,
    would provide financial support for the civil works, equipment, consultant services, and training
    requiredfor consolidating and scaling upthis program.

(b) Specific supuort to the cotton sector refom. This subcomponent expands support to activities being
carried out by the CTRC. It reflects the results o f a Government-commissioned study on cotton industry
reform on support measures to enhance the competitiveness o f cotton production. The subcomponent
includes:

e   Review of the legal status of the cottonproducer organizations and its re-alignment in accordance
    with their socio-economic objectives. An institutional diagnosis o f the producer organizations
    associated with the nine cotton ginningfactories was completed inearly 2003. An action planwas then
    prepared to address their training needs. The project assists inthe implementationo f this action plan.

e   Promotion of access tofarm inputs by cottonfarmers' organizations. The ASPOP does not finance
    farm inputs but would help reducetransaction costs for the supply of farm inputs and the management
    of credit risks by promoting consolidated orders, awareness, organizational support, and training o f
    producer organizations. Consultants would be hired to assist producer organizations in defining
    technical specifications for farm inputs, establishingpartnership programs between input suppliers and
    producer organizations for the provision o f farm inputs and related technical training needs, and
    formulating arrangements for managing credit risks for cotton ginning companies, producer
    organizations, input suppliers, and interested financial institutions.

(c) Private sector development. Under this subcomponent, the project fosters privatization and further
disengagement o f public services from agricultural services. Support activities include:

e   Private provision of veterinary services to accompany disengagement of the state. Activities
    emphasize capacity building to encourage the development o f contractual arrangements between the
    Government and private veterinarians for delivery o f veterinary services to livestock breeders. These
    include training private veterinarians in collaboration with the legal association o f veterinary
    cooperation to (i) promote private veterinary clientele; (ii)  enhancing their understanding o f legal and
    regulatory framework for practice of veterinary medicine, to ensure that veterinarians are informed and
    well equipped; and (iii)improving their knowledge o f the financial side o f veterinary medicine practice.
    The project makes funds available for management training, workshops, andstudy tours.

e   Strengthening andfurther development of Producer Service Management Centers in the Sudanese
    zone for the cotton subsector and in the Sahelian zone. The PSMCs could offer producer
    organizations a range o f services aimed at facilitating small-scale producers' and rural entrepreneurs'
    access to such services as preparing (i)   feasibility studies o f productive investment subprojects; (ii)
    developing business plans; (iii) identifyingand structuring financial resources; (iv) identifyingmarkets
    and providing assistance in accessing them; (v) facilitating post-harvest agricultural activities (for
    example, post-harvest product processing and technology transfer); and (vi) identifying rural service
    providers (NGOs, consulting firms, local contractors, public institutions) capable o f carrying out
    productive investment subproject preparation and implementation. To carry out these tasks, each
    PSMC should have at least one adviser or manager selected and recruited by the local producer
    organizations. The project makes fimds available for constructing and refurbishing office space.



                                                     - 1 2 -

    Producer organizations would gradually take over the operating costs of their PSMC: After the
    establishment o f a PSMC, producer organizations would pay 25% of the operating costs during the
    first year, 50% the second year, 75% the third year, and 100% from the fourth year on. At least one
    PSMC in each department is expectedto be active at the endo f the project.

(d) Public service development. This subcomponent focuses on (i)improving the capacities o f public
service at the national and subnational levels inthe technical ministries linkeddirectly to rural development
(Ministry o f Agriculture, Ministry of Livestock, and Ministry of Environment and Water); and on (ii)
implementing a thematic research program to enable the project and development partners to deal with
constraints and priorities identifiedby stakeholders inrural development. Inparticular, project funds would
be available for the following:

0   Capacity building to strengthen the technical ministries.           The project would provide technical
    assistance, training, and equipment to the technical ministries to (i)improve the quality o f the
    budgetary and financial management in the preparation and implementation of rural investment
    programs; and to (ii)  strengthenthe capability o fthe environmental management unit o fthe Ministryo f
    Environment and Water to monitor implementation o f the proposed mitigation measures for potential
    negative impacts o f productive investments on natural resources inthe agricultural sector. The project
   joins other donors' efforts to support the general monitoring o f relevant rural development programs,
    including Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiatives. Specifically, the project finances technical
    assistance, training, and the upgrading o f needed equipment and accessories for the monitoring and
    evaluation system.

0    Strengthening the technical and institutional capacities o f research institutions in the Ministry o f
    Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock, for implementation of agreed-upon thematic research
    activities. These activities are aimed at finding solutions for long-term constraints to the
    intensification, diversification and sustainability o f the agricultural production systems. Such programs
    may finance studies on agricultural research activities identified as priorities by the Govemment,
    producer organizations, and the private sector.

Project Component 3.           Support to project management. This component supports: (a) the
administration and management o f the project, and (b) the monitoring and evaluation o f project activities.
The component finances the small works and equipment required to establish a National Project
Coordination and Management Unit (NPCMU) and six Inter-Regional Coordination and Management
Units-IRPCMUs within the Ministry o f Agriculture. The component also finances the training o f staff and
the operating cost of these units the Competitive Research Committee and the Departmental Selection
Committees. It also finances studies aimed at addressing unanticipated constraints and opportunities arising
from demand-driven subprojects. These studies would cover: (a) identification o f crop and livestock
development opportunities; (b) identification and use o f inputs and agricultural technology needs for a
specific region or department; and (c) assessment o f the institutional set-up and procedural arrangements
and mechanisms for agricultural service centers.




                                                      - 13-

Project Costs

                                                                   indicative                  Bank-        Yo of
                           Component                                 Costs       %of        financing       Bank-

I                                                                   (US$M)      Total         (US$M)
  Sustainablegrowthin agricultural production                     I    11.67  I    47.4   I      9.81   I financing I
                                                                                                              49.1
  Capacity building                                               1     8.62   1   35.0   1      6.92   1     34.6   1
  Support to project management                                         3.33       13.5          2.27         11.4
  Project preparation facility refinancing                              1.00   I     4.1  I      1.00   I      5.0

I                                    Total FinancingReauiredl          24.62 I     100.0 I     20.00 I       100.0 I

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Povertv !JaD reduction. The project would support the Government's goals o f reducing poverty and
decentralizing the main mechanisms usedby the Government to deliver agricultural services at the regional
and local levels. The project provides resources to enable producer organizations and other rural
development institutions to finance investments in sustainable agricultural production-the      main source o f
income for the rural poor--through a participatory process.

Although the proposed ASPOP is not a vehicle for major policy changes, three key policy and institutional
issues are critical to its success: reform o f the cotton sector, a reform o f the roles o f the state and local
institutions, and a refocusing o f the roles of the technical ministries concerned with rural development. The
ASPOP would advance the cotton-sector reform agenda and support producer organizations, as well as
help to establish appropriate roles for the public and private institutions, including producer organizations
and NGOs.

3. Benefits and target population:

-9
Benefits with 80% o f the rural population made up o f smallholders living on less than US$1 a day and
earning most o f their income from agricultural activities, the primary goal o f the proposed project i s to
raise rural incomes and reduce poverty. In the short to mediumterm, implementation o f the project would
provide the following benefits:

    Economic benefits, generated by adopting better technology and diversifying crop and livestock
     production to increase agricultural production, raise farm incomes, and improve food security; (b)
     boosting local enterprise development with complementary off-farm activities such as handicraft
     production and production o f building materials; and (c) increasing the capability o f private
     entrepreneurs (to establish repair shops and increase local blacksmithing).

    Institutional benefits, would be achieved by (a) strengthening the ruralministries inpolicy making and
     regulatory functions, (b) improving the capabilities o f public research and extension institutions and
     agents, (c) and strengthening the activities o f producer organizations and the provision o f agricultural
     support services by the private sector.




                                                       - 1 4 -

    Social benejits, to be realized (a) by improving beneficiary participation in project decision-making
    processesand access to investment opportunities, (b) increasingthe organizational capacity o f the local
    agencies and producer organizations involved, contributing to the formation o f social capital and
    sustainability o f economic benefits, and (c) creating additional employment opportunities.

    Improved gender impact, through promoting effective representation of women and women's
    organizations at all decision-making levels and in the committees o f producer organizations to enable
    women to adequately voice their views on the productive investments to be funded under the project.
    The project would ensure, through appropriate eligibility criteria in the Project Implementation
    Manual--that subprojects proposed by women`s organizations would be given top priority. At least
    40% o f the subprojects would be managedby women.

    Environmental beneJits, to be generatedby establishing conditions for access to finds for productive
    investment and requiring beneficiaries not to engage in practices that might result in negative
    environmental impacts. Under component 1, the proposed project would promote technologies that
    contribute to maintaining the natural resource base and thus avoiding environmental degradation, such
    as deforestation.

    Targeting, the project aims at national coverage. Expansion o f the coverage would include: nine
    departments (departements) in project year 1 and nine more in project year 2. In choosing the
    departments for each year, project preparation teams have inconsultation with the Permanent Unit used
    weighted criteria such as access to departmentally available banking facilities, other available support
    structures, economic potential, and organizational level o f producer organizations. In addition, the
    teams have allocated at least 20% of the annual budget items "Productive investments" and
    "Strengthening o f capacities" to localities classified as "least developed" using the same weighted
    criteria. It was agreed during negotiations that this could be the first phase o f a longterm program and
    that the Bank would be willing to consider a follow up operation provided the project results justify
    this.

Priority is given to the zones in which the Agricultural and Livestock Project has provided support in the
past on a pilot basis (five zones), the petroleum zone, and the zone in which PROADEL i s planningto be
active. This approach allows producer organizations that have already been assistedand have proven their
capability to enter the phase o f initiating productive investments. The other zones for the f r s t year would
be selectedusingthe above criteria.

The design o f the project, with about 70% o f project funds reserved for components and subcomponents
that directly support producer organizations through their productive investments, ensures that the main
target population, the rural poor, benefits from the project as intended. In addition, priority is given to
groups, that have not obtained similarassistanceduring the past three years.

Coordination. The ASPOP would be implemented in coordination with other projects under the Rural
Development Support Plan. Monitoring of the program would be through the existing ComitC de Pilotage
du secteur rural. Coordination arrangements would be sought with: (a) the ADB-supported Pastoral
Livestock Support Project in the Sahelian zone, (b) the IFAD-supported rural development project in the
Kanem; and (c) the capacity buildingsupport project supportedby the French Cooperation Agency.




                                                     - 15-

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
ImplementationPeriod: Four years.

Oversivht of the Droiect. The Steering Committee for the project already establishedunder the Ministry
o f Agriculture would be responsible for supervising project activities. The committee members would
include representatives o f the Government, civil society, and producer organizations. The Steering
Committee would be responsible for (a) reviewing the project's annual work programs and budgets
submitted by the NPCMU, (b) reviewing progress toward achieving the project's objectives; and (c)
instructing the NPCMU to take corrective actions as necessary to ensure successful implementation. The
Committee would have at least four meetings a year to allow the Government and donors to thoroughly
discussproject activities andmake decisions conceming them.

Proiectmanagement. The NPCMUandIRPCMUs are responsible for overall coordination ofthe project,
including preparation o f the annual work programs and budgets, preparation and production o f the annual
progress reports and fmancial statements, and establishment o f a decentralized monitoring and evaluation
system. The Government would submit to IDA for review andapproval the annual work plans andbudgets
no later than October 31 each year. The NPCMU has been established under the Ministry o f Agriculture,
but it would also work closely with the MinistryofLivestockandthe Ministry ofEnvironment andWater.

The NPCMU would be headed by a national project coordinator. The coordinator would be assisted by a
financial management specialist, an accountant, a procurement specialist, a monitoring and evaluation
specialist, a gender specialist and support staff, all suitably qualified and experienced. These key staff for
the NPCMU habe been recruited. The project would support periodic international technical assistance to
boost the project start-up by strengthening the ability o f the NPCMU to: (a) identify the rural service
providers needed to prepare and implement productive investments; (b) establish costing structures; (c)
ensure operational and technical support, especially for the establishment o f and support to PSMCs and
development of rural radio broadcasting network; (d) establish Departmental Selection Committees; and (e)
linkthe componentsofthe project.

IRPCMUs would be established insix groups o f regions as specified inthe Project Implementation Manual
to prepare and coordinate the implementation o f annual work programs. Each o f the six IRPCMUswould
be headed by a coordinator, who would be assisted by an accountant, a monitoring and evaluation
specialist, and support staff, suitably qualified andexperienced. Three IRPCMU inN'djamena, Bongor and
Mongo have been established under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Within one year o f the
effective date, the borrower should have established the other three IRPCMUs in Abeche, Doba and Faya
Largeau, in a manner satisfactory to the IDA. Local service providers, selected through a competitive
process, would help the IRPCMUs coordinate the implementation o f productive investments and the
strengthening of producer organizations. The monitoring and evaluation of subprojects would also be
contracted out to service providers for close follow-up and implementation advice.

The NPCMU and IRPCMUs would work closely with PROADEL's Central Project Coordination Unit
(CPCU) and Inter-Regional Project Coordination Units (IRPCUs) to coordinate the preparation and
implementation o f their annual work programs, organize joint meetings and field missions, and harmonize
their training and communication plans. To facilitate coordination and communication among all local
stakeholders, the IRPCMUs and IRPCUs would be established inthe same cities and where possible, inthe
same buildings.



                                                     - 16-

A Departmental Selection Committee for productive investments would be establishedby project start up
and would comprise representatives of the public sector, civil society, and producer organizations, and
would be set up to evaluate subproject proposals and to determine their feasibility and fundability. The
Members o f the Departmental Selection Committees would receive a per diem and a payment for their
transportation costs. One member o f each Committee would be available for two days a week to receive
investment proposals, organize Steering Committee meetings (one or two meetings during each quarter,
according to the need), and organize the work o f a technical support commission (see below).
Chairmanship o f the Departmental Selection Committee would change every year. One member o f each
Committee would act as the secretary at each meeting.

The Departmental Selection Committee would be supported by small, ad-hoc Technical Commission that
would carry out the necessary technical, economic, social and environmental evaluations o f subproject
proposals. The members o f the technical commission would be chosen from a panel o f specialists based on
thetype ofinvestmentbeinghandled, and they would be paidfor their work. Inaddition to the technical and
operational background information on the project, the minutes o f the Departmental Selection Committee
would be sent out to the PROADEL's decision committees, to strengthen synergies between the two
projects.

Subprojects applications for competitive research grants would be submitted to a Competitive Research
Committee composed o f a limitedbut highly-qualified staff comprising an executive secretariat, a scientific
coordinator andan accountant. The committee would ensure that proposed subprojects have a highpriority
among producers, and verify that the proposals are economically, financially, environmentally, and
technically sound, and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. After receiving approval from
the Competitive Research Committee, a research subproject would be referred to the NPCMU for
financing.

Proiect implementation. A comprehensive Project Implementation Manual, an Administrative, Financial
and Accounting Manual and a Monitoring and Evaluation Manual have been prepared by the Government.
The Project Implementation Manual defines procedural arrangements for implementing, monitoring, and
supervising the project. It also includes procurement and disbursement arrangements; methodology for
environmental assessment; performance indicators; monitoring and evaluation guidelines; procedures for
identification, appraisal, approval, supervision, monitoring, and evaluation o f subprojects; and criteria for
the selection o f beneficiaries and Technical Support Agencies. The Project Implementation Manual also
contains model forms for grant agreements and specific guidelines for the Competitive Research Grant
Program.

Monitoring and evaluation The tasks and processes o f monitoring and evaluation are detailed in the
Monitoring and Evaluation Manual. The arrangements for carrying out monitoring and evaluation includes
employing specialized staff at two levels; one monitoring and evaluation officer at the central level, as part
of the NPCMU, and six monitoring and evaluation officers inthe field, as members of the IRPCMUs. The
IRPCMU officers organize data collection through a network o f producer organizations, local contractors,
service providers, and ad-hoc Technical Commissions, and input the collected data into a computerized
monitoring and evaluation systemat the NPCMU. The NPCMU monitoring and evaluation officer prepares
the analysesandperiodic monitoringreports on the project.




                                                   -17-

The ASPOP monitoring and evaluation system would follow the technical, financial, and organizational
development o f the project beneficiaries. To view progress, a baseline has been established for all
indicators. In addition, the monitoring and evaluation system would collect and report on such
administrative and financial information as development o f producer organizations, contracts, contractors
and service providers and their charges, and the cost o f project operations to ensure its efficiency and
participatory evaluation by beneficiaries.

Besides being responsible for monitoring project-related activities and carrying out impact studies, the
project would support the sector monitoring and evaluation system, that is, the general monitoring and
evaluation by a permanent unit o f developments o f impacts on agriculture and relevant rural development
activities. The sector monitoring and evaluation system aims, in particular, at evaluating implementations
o f the Rural Development Support Plan and its effect on poverty. It would create tools that estimate the
complementarity o f different projects in the fight against rural poverty. The sector monitoring and
evaluation system would provide the project with analyses of potentialities and appropriate strategies in
regions; general statistical data inthe rural sector; syntheses o f all rural development projects; analyses o f
the impacts of the RuralDevelopment Support Plan; and proposals for developing special production lines
("filibres"). The project would provide the sector monitoring and evaluation systemwith summaries o f the
data on development indicators that the system would follow, and information about implementation o f
project activities. The computer programs of the sector and project monitoring and evaluation systems
would be harmonizedto facilitate easy transfer o f data and information.

Financing mechanisms. The proposed decentralized format for implementation requires establishing
appropriate instruments to channel financial resources for timely and proper implementation o f productive
investment subprojects, Competitive ResearchGrant Program subprojects, andother project activities.

The procedures and eligibility criteria for subprojects related to productive investment are detailed in the
Project Implementation Manual while the Administrative, Financial, and Accounting Manual contains
guidelines for financial management procedures, in a form acceptable to IDA.

Flow of funds. Two special accounts, Special Account A (SAa) and Special Account B (SAb), would be
opened to finance transactions related to project implementation. SAa would cover transactions related to
subproject activities relevant to component 1o f the project (promotion o f sustainable growth inagricultural
production), while SAb would cover all activities related to component 2 (capacity building for agricultural
services) and component 3 (project administration and management and studies). In each o f the six
IRPCMUs sub-accounts (second generation accounts) from SAa and 90-day-advance accounts from SAb
would be opened to cover activities implementedat the inter-regional level. The special accounts would be
managedby the NPCMU. Payments to producer organizations for implementingtheir subprojects would be
made in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and Disbursement in Community-Based
Projects (March 1998), using second generation Special Accounts (sub-accounts) maintained at IRPCMUs.



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection:

When the Government and donors formulated the Rural Development Support Plan, the original idea was
to provide the necessary financial support though the proposed PROADEL. However, after considering
the complex problems that       impede development o f the agricultural sector, the special difficulties of
empowering producer organizations and local communities and enhancing support services, and the large



                                                     - 1 8 -

numberof players involved, the Government andIDA decided that it would be too difficult to try to devise
a program to deal with all the problems under one project. A better approach would be to prepare two
independent, but closely related, self-standing projects. Under this arrangement, the ASPOP focussed
mainly on resolving agricultural development bottlenecks, while the PROADEL concentrates on
decentralizing service delivery and enhancing local communities. The designs o f the projects have common
features, especially for consultation with and participation by stakeholders, targeting o f the poor and
vulnerable groups, and promotion o f local initiatives. Because o f these common features and the linkages
among the issues involved in rural development, the two project teams must carefully coordinate
operations, at the national and regional levels.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                 LatestSI ervision
                                                                                   ( P W      atings
                                                                            (Bank-finance wojects only)
                                                                            Implementation    Development
 Bank-financed                                                               Progress(IP)     Objective (DO)

 Agriculture andLivestock                   PSAF' (Services Agricoles et          S                S
                                            Pastoraux) Cr. 26850, closed
 Civil works, institutional strengthening Transport Sector 11, Cr. 25200,         S                 S
                                            active
 Infrastructures                            Public works, Cr. 261140,             U                U
                                            closed
 Education                                  Basic education, Cr. 25010,           S                 S
                                            active
 Health                                     Populationand AIDS, Cr.               S                 S
                                            2920, active
 Other developmentagencies
 Agence Franqaise de Developpement          "Projet d'hydraulique pastorale
                                            de Kamen"
                                            "Projet d'hydraulique pastorale
                                            duTchad oriental"
 GTZ                                        "Projet d'amtnagement des
                                            ouadis"
 UnitedNations Development Programs "Projet d'Appui au
                                            systbme d'klevage pastoral"
                                           I




3. Lessonslearned and reflectedin the project design:

The proposed ASPOP would build on experiences in decentralized, rural development investment projects
supported by the Bank and other development agencies in various regions o f the world, and on the Bank's
experience in agricultural support services projects in Chad and other countries. Below are key lessons
derivedfrom selectedprojects and sector summaries:

     World Bank-supported Agricultural Services Program (FSAF) (Cr 2685-CD) showed that: (a) the
     involvement of producers inthe design and operation o f extension programs i s critical for ensuring the
     continued technical relevance and usefulness o f the services provided; (b) that strong producer-driven



                                                      - 1 9 -

    organizations are essential for improving productive capacity because they facilitate improved access
    to agricultural support services, inputs, and market outlets;              (c) that establishing effective
    research-extension linkages requires institutional reforms that create positive incentives for the agents
    to collaborate; and (d) that informationflow should be continuous, flowing not only from researchersto
    farmers, but also from farmers to researchers.

    World Bank-financed projects in Africa and elsewhere over the last two decades have shown that
    for rural development projects to achieve the desired success, it i s necessary that: (a) projects be
    designed, formulated, and implemented by communities, based on the needs their populations have
    identified andpartially on their own resources; (b) projects be based on local social structures; (c) local
    development have strong political commitment from the center; (d) the capacities of NGOs and
    consulting firms be improved to support producer organizations; (e) the effective representation o f
    women and women's groups be ensured incommunity associations and other forums; (f) resources and
    responsibilities be transferred to local govemments; and (g) local accountability and ownership be
    ensured.

    A Bank-financed operation in Guinea- The Livestock Services Restructuring Project and the
    GuineaAgricultural Extension and Research project indicate that contracting livestock services and
    establishing partnership with private veterinarians and other operators are important methods o f
    improving the quality o f livestock services to producers and communities.

    OED's evaluation of Bank work on agricultural research projects indicates overall satisfactory
    performance by most projects but identifies the following weak areas requiring improvement: (a)
    limitedgovernment commitment to adequately fund the system and adopt sound researchmanagement
    principles; (b) poor selection and prioritization o fresearch activities to study; (c) limitedlinkages o f the
    national agricultural research system, in the country and with appropriate extemal development
    partners (such linkages would enhance the effectiveness o f national and international programs); (d)
    limitedlinkage between research andtechnology dissemination (such linkages would increase the speed
    andrate o f adoption); (e) needto foster concreteprocedures inthe national agricultural research system
    that enhance the relevance o f research; and (f) lack o f scientific rigor and quality research due to
    ineffective scientific networking, inadequate extemal reviews and linkages, and noncompetitive
    funding.

The proposed ASPOP would take these lessons into account by (a) financing productive agricultural
investments and other off-farm productive activities using a structured participatory process; (b) providing
a broad range o f technical support to farmers, by bothpublic and private agents, in the form o f agricultural
extension, adaptive research and training; (c) supporting a capacity building program for training NGOs
and the private sector; and (d) encouraging competition and partnerships between research institutions
through the establishment o f a competitive grants system.

4. Indicationsof borrower commitment and ownership:

Three features reflect the borrower's commitment and ownership:

    TheASPOP is a key component of the Government's rural strategy under the Rural Development
    Support Program and is specified in the letter on rural developmentpolicy. The proposed project i s
    critical for nupal development and poverty alleviation in Chad, as specifically recognized in the 1998
    Geneva IV Roundtable document.




                                                     - 20
                                                          =

e   The borrower established a permanent unit in early 2000 to monitor and coordinate
    implementation of its rural development strategy. This unit contributed to the project report and
    coordinated preparation o f the project with relevant sector ministries.

e   The borrower has updated its extension strategy to include outsourcing of delivery of services to
    nongovernmental agencies and promotion of producer organizations and private sector operators.
    ASPOP supports this new approach.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:

The Government needs substantial financial assistance to implement its rural development strategy. IDA
support, through the ASPOP and then the PROADEL, would provide the bulk o f the needed external
financing that would otherwise be unavailable. Substantial IDA involvement would also serve as a catalyst
to mobilize additional financing from the donor community, which has been important in the rural
development sector in the past, but generally with short commitment periods and in small geographical
areas. The ASPOP would provide a longer term perspective to rural development, thus helping the
Government promote sustainable agricultural growth andeconomic development inrural areas.

The involvement of IDA i s also expected to impose a certain measure o f discipline and accountability on
project implementation, to facilitate donor coordination, and to build pressure for adhering to time-bound
work plans and targets, which many governments regard as significant assets. IDA'Sexperience in other
countries offers a comparative advantage and would enable it to provide sound policy advice to the
Government for reorganizing public research and extension institutions and improving their capacity,
strengthening producer organizations, and fostering linkages between public agencies, producer
organizations, and other private sector organizations.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailedassessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit         NPV=US$6.1 million; ERR = 21 % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
0Other(specify)
Because the financial benefits would not be quantified for the entire program, no overall economic rate o f
return (ERR) for the project has been computed. However, an ERR has been computed for the
subcomponents that finance productive investments and support them directly. (Economic and technical
data, based on farm models-also       to be used as the baseline for impact assessment-collected       during
project appraisal, are available in Project Files and in the Project Implementation Manual, besides Annex
6.).

Numerous qualitative economic benefits (benefits accruing to the nation and its economy) from this project
can be identified,including: (a) increased monetization, as reflectedin reduced barter; (b) higher efficiency
in the productive rural sector, resulting from improvements in the skills of farmers and members o f the
producer organizations; (c) increased production and assets o f low-income people, due to access to funds to
finance their small local projects; (d) greater participation in the economy by marginal groups (poor men
and women and isolated populations); and (e) enhanced knowledge o f financial issues-including            the
importance o f saving-among    low-income families.




                                                     -21 -

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 1.1 million; FRR = 940 (see Annex 4)
Besides financing productive investments at the local level, the project would invest in building capacity
and sustainableinstitutions-private    and public-at  the grassroots level and differentadministrative levels.
Consequently, the project has been designed to significantly increase the funds available for the economic
endeavors of the rural population, especially poor men and women, and to achieve the maximum outcome
at the lowest possible cost. Overall, the financial objective o f the project i s that quantitative and qualitative
benefits should outweigh the investment costs.

Financial benefits arising from the subcomponents that finance productive investments or support them
directly are presented in Annex 4. For the other subcomponents, the financial effects cannot be
quantitatively determinedwith reliable accuracy. Thus, computing an overall financial rate o f return (FRR)
for the project has not been attempted. However, since the purpose o f the productive investments
subcomponent is to facilitate investments by the ultimate clientele at the grassroots level, promoting such
an approach is meaningfilonly ifthe investments are profitable and increase the incomes of rural families.
To ascertain the profitability o f typical crop and nonfarm investments that Chad's farmers would make
with project funds and their own contributions, 13 typical investments were analyzed as proxies to indicate
the feasibility of promoting productive investmentsunder the ASPOP. They all show substantial financial
benefits for smallholder farmers, with the FRR varying between 13% (fruit plantations) to more than 100%
(groundnuts, poultry, andothers).

Fiscal Impact:

The fiscal impact of the project takes into account government expenditures and revenue at the central and
district levels. Due to the demand-driven nature of investment activities in the project, it is difficult to
estimate the exact fiscal impact in advance. It is likely, however, that the incremental revenues would
exceed the incremental expenditures o f the project. The proposed transfers to beneficiaries for productive
investments constitute incremental costs. The project would increase economic activity, productivity, and
income, thus attracting additional producers and activities into the formal economy. These cumulative
changes are expectedto yield additional revenues inthe long runto sufficiently compensate for the project's
investments.

3. Technical:
Under the ASPOP, producer organizations would be responsible for                     identifying, preparing, and
implementing subprojects. The technical capacity and quality o f producer organizations' demand-driven
activities would be addressedinthe following ways:

0   The guiding premise for the ASPOP is that there is considerable latent technical and managerial
    capacity at the local level. To remedy the technical and management deficiencies o f the producer
    organizations, the ASPOP provides focused training for producer organizations through support
    services undercomponent 2.


0   Technical advisory services would be recruited to assist producer organizations in identifying,
    preparing, and implementing subprojects under component 1.




                                                     - 22 -

0   Technical Commissions attached to the Selection Committees play a key role in reviewing, screening,
    and selecting subproject proposals to ensure the technical, economic, social, and environmental
    sustainability o fproductive investments and compliance with the Project ImplementationManual.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:

Most o f the proposed project activities would be implementedby producer organizations using competitive
contractual arrangements with various support institutions (public and private service providers, NGOs,
consulting firms, local contractors). To organize and supervise these contracts, the project would require
specific institutional arrangements and detailed procedures at the national, regional, district, and
community levels. The Project Implementation Manual defines the approval procedures, the monitoring and
review mechanisms, and the reporting system. The monitoring system would be participatory, involving the
beneficiaries inthe assessments as much as possible.

4.2 Project management:

There are currently no structures in the Government or civil society that could coordinate and manage a
rural development operation the size o f this project. The project supports the establishment of a NPCMU
and six IRPCMUs under the Ministry of Agriculture. The NPCMU would be responsible for overall
project implementation under the guidance o f the Ministry o f Agriculture. A Steering Committee, to be
established by the Government, would supervise the project. To ensure the desired results, the NPCMUand
IRPCMUs must be able to recruit competent and adequately paid staff and must remain free, as
appropriate, o f political interference. Thus, the NPCMU and IRPCMUs would be staffed by experienced
professionals recruited competitively and acceptable to IDA. To minimize undue political influence,
particularly inthe selection o f subprojects, a Selection Committee composed o f representativeso f producer
organizations, the private sector, NGOs, and relevant ministries would be established in each district to
approve subprojects and guide the extension and researcho frelated activities.

4.3 Procurement issues:

A Country Procurement Assessment Report and a Country Financial Accountability Assessment were
carried out for Chad in 2000. The assessments focused on the Government's ability to manage public
resources andon the impact o f recent fiscal reforms on procurement (Annex 6). Following the assessments,
the Government adopted a new Instruction for Bidders (Guide aux Soumissionnaires) that clarifies the
fiscal issue in a satisfactory way. An assessment o f the procurement capabilities o f the ASPOP was
completed duringproject preparation, and an agreement with the Government was reached during appraisal
to implement the recommendations o f an action plan for procurement efficiency improvements identified by
the assessment (Annex 6). Because most procurement would be conducted at the local level, particular
attention was paid during appraisal to procurement rules and procedures that would apply to the
community subprojects, which would follow community participation procedures acceptable to the IDA
and described in the Project Implementation Manual. While the NPCMU would be responsible for
monitoring all procurement-related information for project implementation, the IRPCMUs would be
responsible for the coordination o f project activities. Each participating region would increase its
capabilities by procuring the services o f a local technical service provider to assist in managing
procurement and supervising construction. Additional support in procurement planning and management
would be provided through technical assistance.




                                                     - 23 -

4.4 Financial managementissues:

Although previous and ongoing agricultural sectorprojects have completed all their audits on time and none
o f the audits were qualified, the ASPOP requires a project-specific financial management system that can
provide accurate and timely information on the status of the project. IDA requests that (a) the accounting
and financial management system be planned carefully and established at all levels, (b) that the planned
flow o f funds be consistent with existing government procedures and take into account the experience o f
other IDA- and multilateral donor-funded projects, and (c) that subprojects have adequate arrangements for
cost monitoring. The project would pay particular attention to ensuring that the capabilities of designated
staff handling the project accounts are carefully assessed and that arrangements be made to improve staff
skills and capacity as needed.

5. Environmental:                          EnvironmentalCategory: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation(including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

To ensure that future subprojects are implemented in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner
under the ASPOP, an Environmental Analysis (EA) report was prepared and a notification letter was sent
to and approved by riparians. The following documents were preparedand attached to the EA report: (i)        a
DamSafety Analysis, (ii)Pesticide Management Plan, (iii)Resettlement Policy Framework, and(iv) an
                           a                                  a
Environmental and Social Management Framework for subprojects. In addition, an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) for the ASPOP was prepared and attached to the EA report (see Annex 12). The
recommendations of the EA report have beenincorporated into project design:

     The productive investments subcomponent includes support for (i)      the construction and rehabilitation
     o f small dams, (ii)environmental subprojects designed to curb siltation resulting fiom dune
     movements, (iii) the revegetation o fborrow-pits, (iv) andthe provisiono f insecticide-treated bednets to
     prevent the new water management structures fiom contributing to an increase inmalaria.

     The public service development subcomponent includes support for (a) capacity buildingto strengthen
     technical ministries (training in dam safety for civil engineers o f the Ministry of Agriculture,
     environmental training for regional offices o f the Ministry o f Environment and Water, integrated pest
     management training and study tours for staff o f the Crop Protection Service o f the Ministry o f
     Agriculture) and (b) the thematic research program on integrated pest management research.

     The strengthening of capacities o f producer organizations subcomponent includes support for (a)
     technical advisory services and training to be provided to producer organizations by qualified members
     o f the Dam Unit in hydrology and soil mechanics and (b) training, workshops, and study tours for
     producer organizations to acquire skills in integrated pest management, environmental management,
     environmental, social screening o f subprojects, and dam safety measures.

     The support to project management subcomponent includes support for (i) coordination o f civil
                                                                                    the
     engineers working on dam safety and (ii) recruitment o f specialists in environmental and social
                                                  the
     assessment and integrated pest management to assist the Selection Committee in the review and
     clearance o f subprojects.

Consultations with representatives o f NGOs, the technical services o f ministries, and producer
organizations took place in the course of preparation o f the EA report, informing them about project
objectives. Regional workshops in the Sahelian and Soudanian zones discussed the environmental aspects
of the ASPOP, and discussionswere heldwith technical experts on dam safety and pesticidemanagement.

The EA report and its attachments were disclosed (a) in-country by making it accessible to the relevant
ministries, regional offices o f the Ministry o f Environment and Water, NGOs, producer organizations, and
civil society (b) and in the Bank's Infoshop prior to appraisal. During appraisal, the EA report and its
attachments were reviewed and revised by the Environmental Working Group. The revised EA report was
subsequently disclosed.

5.2 What are the main features o fthe EMP and are they adequate?

The main features of the EMP are the institutional arrangementsfor the implementation andmonitoring o f
the proposed mitigation measures. These institutional arrangements are consistent with the project's
objective to strengthen the capacity o f producer organizations to manage their own subprojects and to
eventually own them. For example, producer organizations, with the assistance o f facilitators, would recruit
qualified service providers to implement dam safety measures and to construct and rehabilitate small dams.
The EMP also provides for dam safety training for producer organizations. To ensure that the small dams
are managed safely under the ASPOP, the EMP provides for training regional civil engineers indam safety.
The services in charge o f dam safety, in cooperation with the IRPCMUs, would monitor implementation of
these and other mitigation measures.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: November 2002

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeen consultedat the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were usedandwhich groups were consulted?

In November 2001 consultants visited the Sahelian and Soudanian zones and discussed the proposed
project with representatives o f producer organizations (who had no experience expressing their needs or
dealing with administrative structures), government institutions, and international organizations (who had
experience in project implementation at the central technical services level in the areas o f rural
development, environmental management, andnatural resourcesmanagement).

During a June-July 2002 technical mission, technical experts and local farmers were consulted on
mitigation measures and institutional arrangements required under the ASPOP. There were serious
concems among local farmers that the existing small dams (dykes) would not withstand the next flood and
that people, animals, and crops would be destroyed again. Conversations with local farmers showed that
they are using chemicals appropriate for fertilizing cotton crops but not for vegetable crops and that they
handle these chemicals inappropriately.

Project activities such as productive investments and environmental management were discussedinregional
workshops in the Sahelian zone (7), in the Sudanian zone (8), and in N'Djamena. Workshop
recommendations included soil restoration, water and soil conservation, fixation o f sand dunes, and
protection against soil erosion.

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults o f the EMP?

The Ministry o f Environment, the NPCMU and IRPCMUs, the Departmental Selection Committee, the
services in charge o f dam safety, the Direction de l'Hydraulique, the Ministry o f Health, and the Ministry
o f Agriculture, including the Crop Protection Service, will cooperate in monitoring implementation o f the
mitigation measures. The EA report and its attachments outline specific monitoring measures and


                                                        - 25 -

indicators for project activities. To allow for an evaluation o f the impacts o f the ASPOP, the following
monitoring indicators were established and incorporated in the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual:
(i) satisfactory management of small dams, (ii)     rational use o f pesticides (in particular integrated pest
management training), and (iii)  changes in crop losses. These indicators reflect the objectives and results o f
the EMP.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

The project does not aim at any specific poverty target because the large majority o f the rural households
are poor. But the central thrust o f the project-to enable producer organizations and rural communities to
take control o f their own affairs-is      a broad social objective. The project reinforces the impact o f
PROADEL on health, education, and public welfare. Through income generation activities, the project
would improve the ability of rural people to save and would promote the budding microfmance industry in
rural areas. No adverse social outcomes are known at this time, except for the potential that some project
benefits could be siphonedoff by a few better-off individuals. But the approval mechanisms being built into
the Project Implementation Manual minimize such a possibility. The project also seeks gender equity by
requiring (a) that subproject service providers take the viewpoints and concerns o f women into account, (b)
that the departmental committees selecting subprojects give priority to women's groups and their plans, (c)
that at least 20% o f the membershipinall new committees establishedto implement or supervise the project
be women, and (d) that at least 40% o f the subprojects be runby women ina sustainable manner.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?

Duringproject preparation, a series o f regional workshops and thematic group discussions were conducted
with stakeholders at the central and regional levels. Participation was broad and included government
officials andrepresentativesof producer organizations, the private sector, andNGOs. At the local level, the
project would utilize the Village Level Participatory Approach to identify investments in productive
subprojects. A committee, comprising the principal stakeholders, including women, would be set up at the
national and district levels to oversee each annual work program. Producer organizations would also assist
inthe delivery ofservicesandthe monitoringofprojectresults.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

Adequate capability of NGOs and private service providers to identify development priorities, elaborate
proposals, provide technical support services, manage accounting o f resources, and monitor outcomes i s
essential for the success of the project. These institutions were consulted during the formulation o f the
project. Many NGOs, consulting f m s , and local contractors already work closely with producer
organizations, and their continued collaboration would be sought in several components, in particular for
preparing and implementing subprojects and developing village-level capacity for farmers to gain from
project services. Producer organizations and private service providers would also be involved as key
players in input acquisition, distribution, and marketing. The project would establish a short list o f NGOs,
civil society organizations, private service providers, and consultants with proven track records in rural
development to call on producer organizations to facilitate the delivery o f training modules to develop the
decisionmaking, business,and investment skills o f the leaders of producer organizations.

6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?



                                                    - 26 -

A new dynamic relationship between the public sector and key stakeholdersinvolved inrural development
has been established duringproject preparation. At the core of project preparation has beenthe requirement
that the project provide adequate institutional arrangements to ensure positive agricultural, social, and
poverty outcomes. This issue was addressed during the appraisalmission.


6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
The baseline, midterm, and final surveys would assess the extent implementation o f the arrangements
mentioned above and the benefits (social and economic) that participants have received. Project monitoring
bybeneficiaries would provide real-time informationon the pace of implementation andsuccess inreaching
target groups.

7. SafeguardPolicies:




7.2 Describe provisionsmade by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

 To ensurecompliance withthe applicable safeguard policies, the following documents have beenprepared
as part o f the EA report:

    OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. An Environmental and Social Management Framework for
    Subprojects has beenprepared to ensure that the future subprojects will be screened for environmental
    and social impacts and that mitigation measures will be implemented consistent with this policy. An
    Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared for the ASPOP project as required by
    OP4.01.

    OP 4.09 Pest Management. A Pest Management Plan has been prepared to ensure that producer
    organizations have the necessary institutional support to achieve the project's goal of increased
    agricultural production.

    OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. A Resettlement Policy Framework has been prepared to outline
    the principles for compensation in the event that future subprojects require land acquisition, thereby
    affecting people's livelihoods.

    OP 4.37 Safety of Dams. A Dam Safety Analysis has been prepared to ensure that small dams are
    managed effectively,

    OP 7.50 Projects in International Waterways. The notificationprocess took place in accordance with


                                                  - 27 -

    the requirements o fthis policy.

The EA was disclosed by the Government o f Chad on November 20, 2002, and disseminated to civil
society groups, producer organizations, NGOs, regional offices of the Ministry o f Environment and Water,
and various ministries involved with the project.


F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:

The project itself does not produce marketable products, and so no commercial sustainability i s expected.
But the purpose of the project is to promote the sustainability of the farming industry and producers in
Chad, which requires a long-term effort to harness all available resources (including increased government
contributions, HIPC funds, and part of oil revenues). Among others, the following project measures
contribute to this goal:

    facilitating the widescale establishment o f income-generating microenterprises to increase smallholders'
    incomes and contribute to their food security;

    empowering producer organizations and facilitating their taking over more responsibilities for
    managing agricultural support services;

    promoting a decentralized organizational arrangement that would facilitate ownership by beneficiaries
    o f the process o f appraising and approving investment proposals;

    promoting a competitive research grant system involving the private sector, producer organizations,
    andNGOs, and the

    accompanying reorganization o f the public research and extension institutions that would contribute to
    more efficient, demand-driven, accountable, and sustainable agricultural support services.


2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o fAnnex 1):



                                                                   Careful selection o f areas to start the project
Insecurity and absence of the rule o f law                         operations, policy dialogue, communication, and
are prevailing inproject areas.                                    informationcampaigns.

Uncertainty about the willingness and                   M          (a) Simultaneous processing o f IDA'sLocal
commitment o f central and local                                   Development Program Support Project
authorities to foster decentralization                             (PROADEL), which has provisions to support
process and strengthenproducer                                     andmonitor decentralization process.
organizations.
                                                                   (b) Under the ASPOP, special attention would
                                                                   be paidto empowering producer organizations
                                                                   to better participate inthe decision making
                                                                   process and influence it.



                                                      - 28 -

IPCMUs face potential difficulties in                   S           The operational methods o f IPCMUs would be
carrying out their functions o fmonitoring                          strengthenedthrough competent intemational
andselecting o f serviceproviders due to                            technical assistanceplaced at the NPCMU for
reduction inthe size of the technical                               the first two years; IPMCUs would be provided
teams, long distances, andinadequate                                with adequate equipment and local contractors
means o f communication.                                            with communication tools.


Local committees for selectiono f                      M            The Credit Agreement would needto include
subprojects may suffer from political                               eligibility criteria for subprojects andconditions
interferenceandcould not operate                                    for their approval.
autonomously.

Reorganizationo fpublic researchand                     S
extension services andtheir staffing may
take longer than anticipated.
From Components to Outputs
Lack o f or inadequate counterpart funding                          Release o f IDA funds would be conditional on
by the Governmentmay slow down                                      the Government's depositing, at the beginningof
project implementation.                                             the fiscal year, the agreed counterpart funding ir
                                                                    the project account.

Lack o f implementation capacity and                                Extensive training programs are plannedfor
shortage o f service providers at the local                         producer organizations, NGOs, elected
level could form a seriousbottleneck for                            representatives and others. The project also
                                                                    promotes decentralizationo f service providers,
                                                                     creation o f rural service centers, and
                                                                     reorientationo f NGOs toward less favored rural
                                                                     areas.

There couldbe a conflict of interest in                 S            Chairmanship o f the Selection Committee woulc
approving subproject applications at the                             rotate annually; presence o f representativeso f
district-level Selection Committees, where                           rural organizations would limit any biased
service providers (who often have                                    decisions.
prepared the documents) wouldbe
members.

Producer organizations may have                         M            The project would finance technical assistance
difficulty preparing subprojects proposals                           (NGOs andlocal consultants) and training to
                                                                     producer organizations.
Overall Risk Rating                                     S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris , M (Modest Risk), I :Negligibleor Low Risk)


3. Possible ControversialAspects:

0   Possible clash between formerly centralized government activities;
0     local control of funds and accountability for actions and quality financial management.



                                                      - 29 -

G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
   (a) The Project Account has beenduly opened, and an initial contribution o f CFAF 90,000,000 has been
       deposited inthe Project Account;

    (b) The Borrower has established an accounting financial management system and a monitoring and
       evaluation systemfor the project satisfactory to IDA;

   (c) The Borrower has employed the independent auditors underterms, conditions, and terms of reference
       acceptable to IDA.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecomplete andreadyforthestart
         o fproject implementation.
ixI 1.b)Notapplicable.

ixI2. Theprocurement documentsfor the first year's activities arecomplete andreadyfor the startof
       project implementation.
ixI3. The ProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundto berealistic and ofsatisfactory
       quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):

Point 3: The Project ImplementationManual already adopted contains an implementation schedule for the
first year.

1.  Compliance with Bank Policies
Kl 1.Thisproject complies withallapplicable Bankpolicies.
02.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bankpolicies.




                                                    - 30 -

                                  Annex I:Project Design Summary
                 CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project
                                   KeyIndicators
                                         Performance        Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                                   CriticalAssumptions
Sector-relatedCAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:            Sector/ country reports:    from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reducewidespread poverty The share of population            Kural sector poverty        'he Government pursues
by alleviating the            under the poverty line        issessment; impact          iolicies of economic and
wide-ranging constraints,    amongbeneficiary               survey reports.             ocial stability inthe
including inagriculture.     farmers i s 20% lower                                      .ountry.
                             than the baseline by the
                              endofthe project.


Project Development           Outcome I Impact              'roject reports:            from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
Increase agricultural         Project beneficiaries         Baseline survey; Project     ) Governmentis
productivity and              increaseproductivity of       Progress reports; Annual    :ommitted to removing
rural income, while           major crops and livestock     sample surveys; Beneficiary :onstraints to agriculture.
preservingthe natural        by 10%by end of project.       issessment report; IDA

resource base.                (see paragraph A.2 page 2     supervision reports.
                              for detailed targets per
                              product
                              Change incereal crop losses Baseline survey;
                              from about 30% to less        Beneficiary assessment;
                              than 20% at project end.      hdependent evaluation
                                                            reports.




Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:            from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Promotionof                By the endof the project,
SustainableGrowthin           60,000 producers families will
Agricultural Development      benefit directly from the
                              project.

1.1 Productive                1.1.1. Productive
Investments                  InfrastructureFacilities



Producer organizations,       By the midtermreview, at      Project baseline survey;    Zffectiveness of
including women and           least 1250subprojects have    Project supervisionreports; :ollaboration with other
vulnerable groups have       been approved, and at least    hdependent evaluation       .elevantprojects.
access to project resources   85 % o f such subproject      reports; Project MTR
and support services to      havebeen implementedina        report.
adequately identify, prepare, satisfactory manner.


                                                        -31 -

mplementandmanage
xoductive investments.  By the end oftheproject, at
                        least 3,000 productive
                        subprojects have been
                        approved, and at least 90 %
                        of such subprojects have
                        beenimplemented
                        satisfactorily, and at least
                        40 % of such subprojects
                        have been successfully
                        implementedby women.

                        1.1.2. Agricultural
                        Development

                        (a) Improving existing
                        farming systems

                        Bythe midtermreview, at
                        least 20 % of all contracts     'roject progress reports;
                                                        ndependentevaluation
                        undersubprojects consisting
                        of extension activities have    eports; Project MTR
                                                        eport; Project ICR.
                        been awarded to the private
                        sector.

                        By the endof the project, at    'roject progress reports;
                        least 30 % of all contract      'roject MTR report; Projecl
                        under subprojects consisting
                        of extension serviceshave       CR.

                        been awarded to the private
                        sector.


                        For all cat A & B
                        subprojects, an EA has been     'roject progress reports;
                        camed out and a mitigation      3eneficiary assessment
                        planimplemented                 eports; Project MTR
                        satisfactorily.                 eport; Project ICRreport.

                        (3) Establishment of seed
                        plant nurseries
                        500 nurseries have been
                        established by project end,
                        inselectednumberof
                        project areas

                        (c) Processingand
                        commercialization of
                        agricultural products


                                                   - 32 -

                           Bythe midtermreview, the
                           quantity o fproducts
                          processed and marketedby
                           productive investments
                           beneficiaries are 10 %
                           higher than the baseline
                           average.

                           Bythe endofthe project,
                           the quantity of products
                           processed andmarketed by
                           productive investments
                           beneficiaries are 25 %
                           higher than the baseline
                          average.
                           1.1.3. Nonfarm
                           investments

                           Byproject end, 40 nonfarm       ?rojectprogress reports;
                           subprojects have been           ?rojectsupervision reports;
                           successfully implementedof      'roject MTR report.
                           which at least 30% of
                           subprojects are implemented
                           by women.

1.2. Competitive           1.2.1. Grant Contracts:
tesearch Grant Program:

jhort-term researchactions By the midtermreview, at        ?roject supervision reports;
ire undertakento address   least 15 subprojects have       Xesearch specific reports;
:onstraints to productive  been implemented inthe          [CR.
nvestments                 satisfactory manner.

                           By the end ofthe project, at

                          least 50 subprojects have
                           been implemented inthe
                           satisfactory manner and at
                          least 30 % of such
                           subprojects have been
                           implementedby
                           Competitive Research
                           Beneficiaries which are
                           private service providers.

                           30% o fcompetitive
                           research resources are
                           allocated to private service


                                                        33 -
                                                       ~

                            providers and NGOs.

1.3. Agricultural           1.3.1. Support Services
ExtensionProgram:

An efficient systemo f      Byproject end, 70% ofall       'roject supervision reports;
support services is         contracts submittedfor         'roject MTR                  Zxtensionauthorities and
Dperating satisfactorily in extension have been            .eport; Beneficiaries        ;ervice providers are
response to producers'      approved, out o f which at     issessments; ICR.            Irganizedto empower
iemand for extension and    least 30% are awarded to                                    iroducer organizations and
raining services.           the private sectorj 90% are                                 Milling to incorporate their

                            satisfactorily implemented                                  'elevant extension
                            and at least 65% o f                                        iroposals.
                            producers benefitingfrom
                            the project have adopted
                            recommendedtechnologies.




!. CapacityBuildingfor
igriculturalServices

!.1. Capacity
itrengtheningofproducer     2.1.1 Technicaladvisory

rganizations,including      rewices:

:ottonproducer
wganizations                By the end o f the project, 15 'roject progress reports;    Nillingness an1
                            ProducersService               ndependent surveys.          :ommitment o f central and
                            Management Centershave                                     oca1Government
                            Deen established, o fwhich                                 iuthorities to strengthen
                            it least 90 % are                                          roducer organizations.
                            hctioning ina satisfactory
                            nanner.

                            2.1.2 Collection and
                            tissemination of technical
                            md economic information:

                            3y the midtermreview, a
                            ural network for collection
                            inddissemination o f
                            echnology and economic
                            nformation has been
                            leveloped satisfactorily.

                            3y the midtermreview, at
                            east one rural radio
                            nanagedby producer
                            irganization has been
                            stablished and i s


                                                       34 -

                         functioning ina satisfactory
                         manner.

                         By the end o fthe project,
                         three rural radios managed
                         by producer organization
                         have beenestablished and
                         are functioning in a
                         satisfactory manner.

!.2. Specific Support to 2.2.1. By the midterm            'roject progress reports;
:heCotton Sector Reform  review, the texts regarding      ndependent surveys.
                         the legal status o f the cotton
                         producer organizations have
                         been substantially
                         improved.



!.3. Private Sector      2.3.1 Serviceprovision:
Development              (a) Producer management
                         and service Centers
                          15 service centers have been
                         established by the midterm
                         review, o fwhich 90% are
                         functioning satisfactorily,
                         and47 service centershave
                         been established by the end
                         o f the project,
                          o f which 90% are
                          functioning satisfactorily

                          (b) Veterinary services
                         Bythe midtermreview, a
                          network for private
                          provision o f veterinary
                          services is established and i i
                          functioning satisfactorily.




1.4. Public Service       2.4.1.Sector adjustment
Development:              measures                                                    Willingness and
                          Application o f the Water                                   :ommitment o f central and
                          code                                                        oca1government authoritie:
                          Adoption andapplication oi
                          the legislation on
                          pastoralism's management
                          Preparation, adoption and



                                                      - 35 -

                          application o f the rural code




                          2.4.2. Thematic Research
                          Program:

The management capacities Bythe end ofthe project, at
IfITRADandLRVZhave        least 70% o fpriority          ?rojectbaseline survey;      hstainedpoliticaland
)een strengthened.        thematic research activities   ?roject supervision reports, wdgetary commitment to
                          supported under the project    ndependent survey.           )olicy, regulatory and
                          are completed satisfactorily.                               nstitutional reforms andto
                                                                                      oster decentralized agenda.

                          2.4.3. Monitoring and
                          evaluation:


'he monitoring capacities  By the endof first Project
                          Year, a monitoring and         'roject progress reports;
ifthe MOAhavebeen         evaluation system for rural    ndependentsurveys, project
trengthened.              sector activities has been     upervision reports; ICR.
                          established andi s operating
                          satisfactorily.

                          By the midtermreview, at
                          least 5 training programs on
                          :nvironmental management
                          have been carried out for
                          MinistryofAgriculture,
                          MinistryofLivestock and
                          MinistryofEnvironmental
                          mdWater staff, andan
                          :nvironmental and social
                          .mpact assessment has been
                          :anied out for all
                          subprojects involving water,
                          Zrtilizer andpesticide use
                          mdapprovedbefore the
                          jate o f the mid-term.

  Support to Project      'L1.1. Project Coordination
[anagement                'ndMonitoring Unit:

                          lythe midtermreview, 80%
                          fcontracts signedbythe
                          JPMCUand the IRPCMU            roject periodic reports;

                          ave been executed on time.     ipervision reports; MTR
                                                         ;port; ICR.

                          ly the midtermreview, the



                                                    - 36
                                                        =

                          lrocurement plan for the
                          roject has been
                          mplemented in a satisfactor)
                          nanner.

                          %ythe endo f each Project
                          Tear, the Special Account
                          ndSecond Generation
                          lpecial Accounts have been
                          eplenishedina satisfactory
                          nanner.

                          iy the end of each Project
                          Tear,
                          11audit reports have been
                          unely issued.




Sroject Components /      nputs: (budget for each     Project reports:          (from Componentsto
3ub-components:           :omponent)                                            Outputs)
1. Sustainable Growth in  JS$11.67 million            Project implementation    Counterpart funds are
4gricultural Production.                              progress reports and Bank available on time.
                                                      Disbursementrecords.

1.Capacity buildingfor    JS$8.61 million             Project implementation    GOC commitment to projecl
4gricultural Services                                 progress reports and Bank remains strong.
                                                      Disbursementrecords.

3. Support to Project     JS$3.33 million             Project implementation
Management                                            progress reports and Bank
                                                      Disbursementrecords.




                                                  - 37
                                                          ~

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project

The proposed project includes three components: (i)   Promotion o f Sustainable Growth inAgricultural
Production, (ii)  Capacity Buildingfor Agricultural Services, and (iii)Support to Project Management.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$11.67 million
                       -

1.       Promotionof SustainableGrowthin AgriculturalProduction

Under this component, the project would finance, as demand-driven subprojects, (a) support to productive
investments and (b) competitive research grants.

(a) ProductiveInvestments(US$10.79 million)

These subprojects would finance the implementation o f income-generating activities proposed by producer
organizations (POs) through a grant system, with an up-front farmers' contribution o f at least 20% o f
subproject cost as defined in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The subprojects would promote
production, processing, and marketing o f farm and livestock products. Beneficiaries o f the grant will be
legal entities o f which women would receive special attention. Upfront contribution would be in kind as
well as in cash and would not be less than 20% of subproject cost. This component would finance the
following three types o f productive investments subprojects along with support services needed for their
implementation.


0   Productive infrastructure (US$5.00million). These subprojects would include: (i)         construction and
    management o f small-scale water management schemes, such as hydro-agricultural retention pools,
    small ponds, hillsidewater retention structures, pastoral wells, small irrigation and drainage work, and
    small dams, (ii)soil and water resources conservation infrastructure comprising relevant water
    resource management facilities that would allow the channeling o f surface and underground water for
    agricultural and livestock purposes; (iii)   establishment o f small store systems and rural veterinary
    facilities that would particularly address vaccination needs; and (iv) studies.


0   Agricultural development (US$4.65 million). This sub-component would put particular emphasis on
    the cotton sub-sector, including but not limited to (i)   improvement of existing farming systems and
    development of conservation farming techniques to preserve soil fertility (no tillage) and improve the
    environment in areas o f alley cropping, contour ridge terracing, cover crops, and living fences; (ii)
    demand-driven extension and training activities not necessarily linked to the above productive
    infrastructures subprojects (such as diversification o f agricultural and livestock production, processing
    and marketing of farm products, and establishment o f seed and plant nurseries and promotion o f
    domestic and export agriculture, including the search for domestic and international markets for
    prominent crops such as cereals, fruits and vegetables; animal and animal products such as meat, milk,
    fish, poultry and small ruminants; other marketable products such as shea nuts, cashew, arabic gum,
    sesame and spiruline.




                                                    - 38 -

     Nonfarm productive activities (US$I.14million) inrural areas such as handicrafts, women's weaving
     rings, production of building material, repair shops, various types o f wood-work, metal and leather
     work, and studies.

Any o f the above activities could be included in a separate subproject (with the exception of agricultural
extension linked to productive investment, agricultural development and off-fann activities) or combined.
subprojects would not include, however, basic social equipment and infrastructure o f public interest that
would be supported by the LDAP. They would not also include agricultural inputs that could be supported
though credit from other specialized institutions.

(b) CompetitiveResearchGrant Program(CRGP) (US$0.88 million)

The program would support short-term (2-3 years) research actions aimed at finding solutions for
constraints to the productive investments under subcomponent (a) o f component 1, including activities that
would support effective development o f agribusiness-small farmer linkages. The CRGP would be open to
all, including the private sector, and awarded on the basis o fproposals submittedby qualified institutions in
response to advertisements in the national communication system (the press, radio, television). Budgetary
items that would qualify for funding under project activities would be limited to operating expenses, small
equipment, inputs, supply, travel costs, and short-term training. Items such as salary costs, large-scale
equipment, or civil works would not be eligible budgetary items for CRGP support. A             outlining the
criteria and specifications by which the CRGP would operate, as well as the overall administration o f the
CRGP, has been drafted in consultation with the Research and Extension Systems, universities, Producer
Organizations, and NGOs. The manual defines an administrative structure that i s acceptable to IDA, and
the required selection criteria and procedures to be considered for proper implementation. The selected
portfolio for the first round of competitive grant proposals to be undertaken ineach region wouldbe subject
to prior review and approval by IDA.


0     Targeting. The project would operate in the entire country. Detailed targeting mechanisms, including
     geographic targeting, andeligibility criteria for subprojects are includedinthe PIM.

     Identification, Selection, and Implementation of subprojects. The project would use community
     mobilization (rapid rural appraisal) methods to identify productive investments at the local level. The
     priorities identified and prepared by the local producer organizations with the assistance o f service
     providers (to be chosen through a competitive bidding) would be reviewed and consolidated by the
     Inter-Regional Coordination and Management Units (IRPCMU). At the departmental level, a
     Departmental Selection Committee comprising representatives o f the public sector, civil society and
     producer organizations would be set up and would carry out the necessary technical, economic, social
     and environmental evaluation for subprojects. Because of their limited technical capacities, the
     DepartmentalSelection Committee would be assistedby few specialists inthe specific technical area o f
     the subproject. Upon approval by the Departmental Selection Committee, the subprojects proposals
     would be forwarded to the IRPCMU for activation o f the allocations to the beneficiary producer
     organizations. At the promotional phase o f the program, the IRPCMU, through Service providers,
     would promote and animate regional fora that would bring together representatives from different
     ministries, the civil society and producer organizations. The fora would ensure information exchange,
     guidance and program formulation. They would also help producer organizations prepare their
     subproject documents.




                                                      - 39 -

Service providers for implementation support (not necessarily the same as at the promotional phase and to
be chosen through a competitive bidding) would coordinate and follow up the implementation o f the
subprojects approved by the Departmental SC. They would also provide the project authorities with the
information and data needed for project monitoring. POs themselves would be responsible for the
implementation of their subprojects, which they could do with the help o f local contractors. Local
contractors would normally be selected through a competitive bidding process by requestingbids from at
least three competent f m s or agencies.

Subprojects applications for competitive research grants will be submitted to a Competitive Research
Committee (CRC), composed o f a limited number of high experienced staff: namely, an executive
secretariat, a scientific coordinator and an accountant. The Committee will ensure that the proposed
subprojects has a high priority among producers, besides verifying that the proposal is economically,
financially, environmentally, and technically sound, and in compliance with the standards set forth in
applicable laws and regulations. Once CRC has approved a researchsubproject, it refers it to NPCMU for
financing.

    Financial arrangements. Elements to be financed under this component would include (as defined in
    the PIM): small farming equipment and tools, construction material, processing machinery, small
    drainage and irrigation works, establishment o f nurseries, storage facilities for inputs and products,
    time-bound technical assistance and training. The project would not, however, finance such important
    requirements in rural areas as farm equipment and inputs, coordination mechanisms between ASPOP
    and the initiative for the Highly IndebtedPoor Countries (HIPC) for providing mechanized farming
    equipment and between ASPOP and micro-finance institutions for financing farm inputs shall be
    finalizedbefore the start o f the project.

    Cost recovery mechanisms. For the sake o f long-term sustainability, the project would experiment
    with altemative mechanisms o f cost recovery through partnerships between community groups and
    their representative producer organizations and local servicesproviders. It would also provide adequate
    resources to strengthen the capacities o f producer organizations and local service providers to operate
    as credible partners in the implementation o f proposed subprojects. The project would progressively
    create an environment where producer organizations are empowered through training on improved
    participatory techniques, agricultural intensification technologies, the use o f modem inputs, and the
    introduction o f Integrated Pest Management (IPM), which are expected to yield significant economic
    benefits for farmers while conserving the agricultural resourcebase and protecting the environment.

Project Component2 US$8.61 million
                       -

2.       CapacityBuildingfor Agricultural Services

The proposed project would focus considerable human and financial resources on supporting public and
private sector development.




                                                    - 40 -

(a) Capacity Strengtheningof producer organizations, including cotton producers organizations (%
2.94 million)

Activities to be financed under this subcomponent would include:

    Technical advisory services provided by a variety o f rural service providers (NGOs, consulting f m s ,
    local contractors, public institutions) for the identificatiodpreparation and for overall implementation
    support o f productive investment subprojects and the implementation and management of Producer
    Services and management Centers (PSMCs) specified inpara (c) below.

    Training, workshops and study tours to enhance the capacities o f producer organizations and their
    representative organizations, (including the local coordination committees for the cotton subsector) in
    (i)promoting participatory approaches, as well as the development of basic accounting and
    procurement methods, and (ii)fostering producer organizations representation in state and regional
    steering committees comprising representatives o f producer organizations, the private and public
    sectors, NGOs and donor organizations.

0   Collection and dissemination o f technology and economic information to producer organizations.
    Communication specialists, in collaboration with a network o f rural radios managed by producer
    organizations, have been contracted under the JSDF-funded program to carry out the first phase o f
    these activities. The Project,jointly with UNDP and French Cooperation, will provide financial support
    for civil works, equipment, consultant services and training required for consolidating and scaling up
    this program.

(b) Specific Support to the CottonSector Reform(%1.91 million)

This subcomponent builds on and expands support to activities being carriedout by the "ComitC Technique
de RCforme du sous-secteur du Coton - CTRC". Itreflects the results o f a government-commissioned study,
as part o f the reform o f the cotton industry, to formulate supporting measures to enhance the
competitiveness o f cotton production. It includes:

    Review of the legal status o f the cotton producer organizations and its re-alignment in accordancewith
    their socio-economic objectives. An institutional diagnosis o f producer organizations relating to each o f
    the nine cotton ginning factories has been completed in early 2003. Subsequently, an action plan has
    been prepared to address the training needs o f the producer organizations at the village level. The
    project will assist inthe implementation o f this action plan.

0   Promotion o f access to farm inputsby cotton farmers' organizations. The PSAOP will not finance farm
    inputsbutwill help reduce transaction costs for the supply offarminputsand the management ofcredit
    risks. Thus, consultants would be hired to assist producer organizations in defining technical
    specifications for farm inputs, formulating partnership programs between input suppliers and producer
    organizations for the provision o f farm inputs and related technical training needs. They will also
    formulate specific arrangements for managing credit risks, which involve cotton ginning companies,
    producer Organizations, input suppliers, and interested financial institutions.




                                                     -41 -

(c) Private Service Development (US$0.64 million)

Provisionwould be madeto avail financial and technical assistance to:

    Strengthen the capacity of rural private services (NGOs,consulting firms) on how to develop producer
    organizations management, decision-making, business, and investmentskills.

    Strengthen and further develop existing PSMCs that are owned and managed by producer
    organizations, and establishnew ones as necessary. Studies would be conducted inyear 1 to assess the
    needs o f PSMCs and to determine their appropriate institutional set-up to respond quickly to demand
    by producer organizations and a mechanism to ensure their long-term sustainability. The main role of
    the PSMCs would be to provide information, and ensure greater understanding on relevant issues such
    as competing countries, marketing studies, and create opportunities to their clients in a proactive way.
    To achieve this objective, PSMCs would offer a range o f business services to small-scale producers
    and rural entrepreneurs. These would include: (i) feasibility assessments; (ii)
                                                         project                              development o f
    business plans; (iii)  identification and structuring of financial resources; (iv) market identification,
    development and access; (v) facilitation o f technology transfer and such ex-post agricultural activities
    as post-harvest operations and product processing. Particular attention would be paid to the long-term
    sustainability of PSMCs with an aim o f clients' paying a reasonable share o f costs o f goods and
    services. Trigger indicators have been defined during appraisal to gauge performance of the PSMCs.
    The project would also foster the privatization o f agricultural services including veterinary services, in
    particular, streamlining the legal and regulatory framework in which private veterinary services can
    operate, and supporting a training program for private practitioners andveterinary services officials so
    as to diversify their activities.

(a) Public Service Development (US3.12 million)

Focus under this subcomponent would be on (a) improving the capacities o f technical ministries in key
areas at the national and decentralized levels and (b) implementing a thematic research program that would
provide the scope to address identifiedconstraints through priority themes proposed by key players inrural
development.

0   Capacity Building to strengthen the technical ministries (US$2.00 million). Provision would be
    made under the project to strengthen the central divisions of the technical ministries in charge o f the
    formulation of rural policies, programs, and associated public investments. The project would
    particularly aim at providing support for technical ministries in (a) streamlining the monitoring and
    evaluation of rural sector activities in order to contribute inproper implementation o f HIPC initiatives
    and the macro-economic, regulatory and fiscal framework to (i)      improve the quality o f the budgetary
    and financial management in the preparation and implementation of rural development programs; (ii)
    enhance government's institutional and technical ability to formulate and assess the implementation o f
    rural development policies, in close collaboration with "Cellule Permanente," which has recently
    developed a macro-economic, regulatory and fiscal framework for improving the rural sector database;
    (iii)developing a rural market information system that would ensure the availability of adequate and
    timely information pertinent to the respective needs of producer organizations and their relevant
    partners; and (b) strengthening the environmental management capacities o f rural ministries to
    appropriately address environmental constraints and, in particular, to adequately implement proposed
    mitigation measures.



                                                     - 42 -

e   Thematic Research Program (US$1.12 million). Under this subcomponent, support would be
    provided for priority thematic research activities in agriculture as identified by the Government,
    producer organizations, and the private sector. The support would be aimed at deriving solutions for
    thematic and long-term constraints to intensification, diversification and sustainability o f production
    systems. Proposed thematic activities would be executed within the public research system of the
    SNRA (Service National de Recherche Agricole) in collaboration, as appropriate, with extemal
    institutions. Consideration for funding would be given to research proposals with particular focus on
    issues o f small-scale natural resource management, soil and water managementlconservation, drought
    resistance and yield improvement, genetic improvement for disease, integrated pest management, rural
    economic development, and other specific and tailored strategic studies. The project would support the
    incremental costs of field diagnostic work, new or replacement equipment, limited infrastructure
    rehabilitation, travel costs, training, visiting fellows and relevant "twining" costs with extemal
    institutions, workshops and seminars, consultancies, temporary contractual assignments and operating
    expenses. Support to the thematic researchprogram would, however, be contingent upon the execution
    o f a review o f the national agricultural system andthe implementation of the reviews recommendations.

Project Component3 US$3.33 million
                       -

 3.      Supportto ProjectManagement

(a) ImplementationPeriod:Four years

Project's oversight

The project would support the administration, management and the monitoring and evaluation o f project
activities. This would include the establishment and operation o f a National Project Coordination and
Management Unit (NPCMU). Within the NPCMU, a monitoring and evaluation support section would be
established. At the Inter-regional level, the IRPCMU would promote and supervise project operations. The
oversight o f project activities would be the responsibility o f a Steering Committee (SC), comprising
representatives o f the public sector, civil society and producer organizations. The SC would be responsible
for the overall planning, implementation and supervision o f the Project: (a) reviewing the project's annual
work program and budget submitted by NPCMU; (b) reviewing progress toward achieving the project's
objectives; and (c) talung corrective actions as needed to ensure adequate implementation o f project
activities. The SC would convene at least one annual meeting with the Government and the donors to
ensure sufficient exchange on project activities and decisions. The project will make funds available for
training, the carrying out o f study tours, the rehabilitation o f office space and the acquisitions o f equipment
and vehicles. It will also provide funds for the provisiono f technical advisory services to NPCMUand the
IRPCMUs. Finally, the project will make provision for carrying out o f financial andtechnical audits of the
project.

(b) Project's Management and Implementationarrangements

e   Project Implementation: The PIM defines procedural arrangements for the implementation,
    monitoring and supervision o f the project. It includes the procurement and disbursement arrangements,
    environmental assessment methodology, performance indicators, monitoring and evaluation guidelines,
    procedures for identification, appraisal, approval, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of
    subprojects, and criteria for the selection o f beneficiaries and implementing agencies (service
    providers). Model forms for grant agreements have also been prepared. The PIMalso includes specific
    guidelines for: (a) the Competitive Research Grant Program; (b) administrative and financial



                                                      -43   -

    management procedures; and (c) monitoring and evaluation.


0   ProjectManagement: The NPCMU at the national level andthe IWCMUs at the interregional levels
    would be responsible for the overall coordination of the project, including consolidation o f the annual
    work programs and budget, preparation and production o f the annual progress reports and financial
    statements, and the establishment o f a decentralized monitoring and evaluation system. The NPCMU
    would be established within the Ministry o f Agriculture and would work inclose collaboration with the
    Ministryo f Livestock and the Ministryof Environment and Water. The Government would submit to
    IDA for its review andapproval an annual work program and budgetnot later than October 31of each
    year. The NPCMU i s headedby a National Project Coordinator, who would be assisted by a Financial
    Management Specialist, an Accountant, a Procurement Specialist and a Monitoring and Evaluation
    Specialist.

An IRPCMUwould be establishedinat least six groups ofregions (Unit& Inter-regionales) to prepare and
implement annual work programs. Each IRPCMU would be headed by a Coordinator, who would be
assisted by an Accountant, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, and relevant support staff, suitably
qualified and experienced. The IRPCMUs would be assistedby service providers, to be selected through a
competitive process, to coordinate the implementation o f the productive investments and the strengthening
o f producer organizations. Implementation support to producer organizations and monitoring and
evaluation o f subprojects would also be contracted out to service. At the departmental level, a
Departmental SC o f productive investments comprising representatives o f the public sector, civil society,
and producer organizations, would be set up to evaluate subproject proposals, determine their feasibility
and hdability. Itwould be assistedby small, ad-hoc technical committees that would carry out necessary
technical, economic, social and environmental evaluation o f the productive investments.

0   Reporting and Auditing. Quarterly progress reports on local operations (collected from service
    providers, contractors, and producer organizations) will first be consolidated at the inter-regional level
    (IRPCMU), then submitted to the NPCMU level for further consolidation and preparation of the
    project activity report. A simple, standard local-level reporting format will be used that will include, at
    a minimum,the eligible activities undertaken, and actual costs compared to standard estimates for such
    eligible activities. Standard estimated costs for eligible activities necessary for project management,
    will be determined during Project's launching workshop. Any expenditure which cannot bejustified or
    which is outside the scope of the agreed activities under the subproject would be identified and should
    be reimbursed to the project by the benefiting agencies or producer organizations.

Annual financial consolidated statements for the project will be prepared by NPCMU in accordance with
generally accepted accounting standards as required by IDA. The annual project financial statements will
be audited annually by external auditors, acceptable to IDA. The audited project financial statements will
be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. Appointment o f extemal
auditors acceptable to IDA will be done prior to project effectiveness.




                                                    - 44 -

                                            Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                 CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project


                         ProjectCost By Component
A. Promotionof Sustainable Growth inAgricultural Production                                          0.00                  0.00                    0.00
(USSl 1.67 million)
a.1- Support to Productive Investments                                                              10.79                  0.00                   10.79
a.2- Competitive ResearchGrant Program                                                               0.81                  0.02                     0.83
B.Capacity Buildingfor Agricultural Services                                                                                                        0.00
(USS7.49 million)
b.1- Capacity Strengtheningofproducerorganizations                                                   2.10                  0.39                     2.49
(includingcotton producerorganizations)
b.2- Specific Support to Cotton Sector Reform                                                        1.21                  0.42                     1.63
b.3- Private Service Development                                                                     0.62                  0.00                     0.62
b.4-Public Service Development                                                                       2.00                  0.75                     2.75
C. Supportto Project Management                                                                      2.26                  0.71                     2.97
D.PPF                                                                                                1.oo                                            1.oo
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                 20.79                  2.29                   23.08
 Physical Contingencies                                                                              0.64                  0.17                     0.81
 Price Contingencies                                                                                 0.64                  0.09                     0.73
                                          Total ProjectCosts1                                       22.07                  2.55                   24.62
                                  Total Financing Required                                          22.07                  2.55                   24.62

                                                                                                    Local              Foreign                    Total
                          ProjectCost By Category                                               US $million          US $million             US $million
Grants for subprojects                                                                                11.36                    0.00                     11.36
CivilWorks for Offices Rehabilitation                                                                  0.96                    0.00                      0.96
Vehicles, Equipment, Furniture and Materials                                                           0.36                     1.56                     1.92
ConsultantsServices                                                                                    1.26                     0.54                     1.80
Training                                                                                               3.40                     0.45                     3.85
OperatingCosts                                                                                         3.73                     0.00                     3.73
PPF                                                                                                    1.oo                     0.00 i   ~               1.oo
                                                         Total Project Cost:                          22.07                     2.55                    24.62
                                                Total Financing Required                              22.07                     2.55                    24.62


  I
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 1.47 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 23.15 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 86.4% of
  total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                    - 45 -

                              Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project



Summary of Benefits and Costs:

1. Project Goals andMeasures

The Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project would foster sustainable rural growth and
poverty alleviation through increased agricultural and livestock production.         With 80% o f the rural
population dominated by smallholders living on less than a dollar a day and getting most o f their income
from agricultural activities, the primary goal o f the proposed project is to raise rural incomes and reduce
poverty. The project would strengthen producer organizations and the capacities o f rural areas to develop
and select sustainable productive activities, promote a client-responsive agricultural technology system, and
strengthen public and private institutions that are active inthe rural sector.

2. Benefits and beneficiaries

The Project would, during a four-year period and covering the country's 44 departments provide poverty
reduction services and income-generating activities to producer organizations, particularly those dealing
with the less well-to-do households. The number o f project beneficiaries is estimated at 36,500 farm
families, although it must be understood that such estimation cannot be accurate because o f the
demand-driven nature o f the project. The number o f subprojects establishedby the beneficiaries i s 2,500.
Approximately 2,500 producer organizations would be strengthened under the Producer Organizations
component, and about 100 private firms would be trained inintensificationtechniques..

The main expected outputs of the project include: (a) increased number of small infrastructural facilities
and equipment financed for producer groups; (b) improving existing farming systems, especially through
improved efficiency in the agricultural research programs and demand-driven agricultural education and
kaining for small farmers' groups in order to foster the adoption of improved technology and
diversification o f crops and animal species and to ensure the sustainability o f the project's economic
benefits; (c) increased agricultural growth through seed production, plant nurseries, and increased facilities
for transformation and marketing of produce; (d) strengthening the rural development process by helping
streamline rural development activities within a unified institutional framework, thereby promoting
coherence, synergy, and cost-effectiveness o f public expenditures for rural development; and (e) more
sustainable andpositive effects on natural resources.

3. Cost Benefit Analysis

A cost-benefit analysis o f the project as a whole is methodologically challenging because o f the strong
emphasis on institutional strengthening and capacity building. Furthermore, the demand-driven nature o f
the operation makes it impossible to know a priority which subprojects would be actually financed, or in
which proportion. Therefore, the cost-benefit analysis presented here i s mostly illustrative. It focuses on the
productive investments and i s based on a sample o f 13 farm and nonfarm activities (rehabilitation and
development o f new rice irrigated schemes, fruit plantations, production of poultry, groundnuts, onions,
maize, Sudanese and Sahelian sorghum, and green beans, cassava processing, development o f fishponds,
establishment o f fish smoking facilities, and diggingwaterholes for animals). These cover the most relevant



                                                     - 46 -

production activities and are likely to drive an increase in farmers' incomes. Information contained in the
models is based on data provided by the researchinstitutes, and specialists in the Ministries o f Agriculture
and Livestock, as well as through extensive discussions with technicians familiar with the agricultural
production systems inChad.

(a) FinancialAnalysis

Besides financing productive investments at the local level, the project is an investment inbuildingcapacity
and sustainable institutions private and public at the grassroots level and different administrative levels.
Consequently, the project has been designed to significantly increase funds available for economic
endeavors o f the rural population, especially poor men and women, as well as to achieve the maximum
outcome at the lowest possible cost. Overall, the financial objective of the project i s that quantitative and
qualitative benefits should outweigh the investment costs.

For the subcomponents that are not directly-productive, the financial effects cannot be quantitatively
determined with reliable accuracy. Thus, computing an overall financial rate of retum (FRR) for the project
has not been attempted. Financial benefits arising from the subcomponents that finance productive
investments or support them directly allow FRR or NPV to be calculated for the main activities expected to
be financed under the respective subcomponents (if a net profit is received already during the first year,
NPV replaces the otherwise presented FFUX). The farm models are based on conservative estimates o f
attainable changes in family households, taking into account the subsistence nature and risk-minimizing
strategy, typical of the targeted groups o f population. Such changes include progressive productivity
increases and changes in prevailing cropping patterns. Labor family availability and required for the new
activities were also considered in the farm budget models. The analysis is carried on a per-unit basis for
farm enterprises (one hectare). (Details o f the calculations are inthe Project ImplementationManual.)

Table 1. Financial calculations for the mainproductive investments under the project
(Amounts inFCFA)

Model         Area       Investment      Production        Cost          Value of      Production       FRR (%)
              (ha)/
             unit
                                         Without           With          Without       With project
                                         project           project       project
Irrigated     10         8,400,000       1,655,000         3,645,000     2,500,000     6,250,000        14.7
rice
Fruitprod.   1.O         930,000         0                 125,500       0             257,000          13.0
Goat         1.o         295,000         455,625           382,250       360,000       400,000          77.0
production
Poultry      1.0         212,000         265,100           375,663       302,000       812,000          NPV=
prod.                                                                                                   3,122,495
Vegetable    1.0         968,000         438,250           624,950        830,000      1,645,000        75.0
prod.
Ground-nut 1.O           0               103,600           136,500        175,000      250,000          NPV=
                                                                                                        237,982
Maize prod. 1.O          0               113,600           154,400        150,000      250,000          NPV=
                                                                                                        307,538
Greenpeas 1.O            0               94,200            145,900        100,000      200,000          NPV=


                                                     - 47 -

                                                                                                        280,980
Sorghum      1.0          0               67,700            94,700        75,000         127,500        NPV=
(Wh. Sahel)                                                                                              180,610
Sorghum      1.0          0               77,600            100,850       120,000        180,000        NPV=
(Red Sudan)                                                                                             254,906
Fishponds    1.O          325,000         0                 145,000       0              300,000        41.0
Cassava      1.0          570,000         2,526,000         2,486,000      1,440,000     2,880,OO       NPV=
process.                                                                                                 7,619,091
Onion prod. 1.O           8,000           415,000           566,000        1.050,OOO     2,250,000      NPV=
                                                                                                         6,944,428
Cattle        1.o         7,075,000       0                 425,000       0              5,360,000      >lo0
water-
holes


For comparison purposes, the average support that each benefitingproducer organizations would get from
the funds intended to directly support agricultural income generation (support to productive investments,
support to producer organizations, and agricultural extension program) has been computed to be for an
average producer organizations equivalent o f US$8,000. The support to a typical benefiting family
(through aproducer organization) would thus be equivalent to about US$334.


2. Economic Analysis
        NPV=US$1.1 billion; ERR= 21% (tentative)

Because the financial benefits will not be quantified for the entire program, no overall economic rate o f
return (ERR) for the project will be computed. However, an ERR has been computed for the
subcomponents that finance productive investments and support them directly. Economic and technical
data, based on farm and enterprise models-also          to be used as baseline for impact assessment-were
collected inJune-July 2002 (available inProject Files).

    The ERR for productive investments has been computed by using a 20-year benefit period. The
    hypothesesused were the following:

0   The net value is the total o f additional production attained with the help of the project, after having
    deducted the costs o f production.

0   The total o f the investment costs of the productive components (80% of project costs) have been
    estimated includingphysical andprice contingencies.

0   The number o fbeneficiaries would increaseto 36,500 duringthe project period.

The adjustments made for the economic analysis mainly reflect the removal of taxes and subsidies and
other economic distortions. While the Project would increase on- and off-farm employment in the rural
areas, unemployment and under-employment would not be eliminated. Therefore, a conversion factor o f
0.50 to reflect the opportunity cost of unskilled labor was used in the calculations. The policy reforms
aimed at opening up the economy that took place inthe 1990s, together with the open-market determination
of the exchange rate, reflect fairly well its real value, leading to the conclusion that domestic prices tend to
correspond to border economic values. Prices and exchange rates are in constant (May 2002) terms over



                                                      - 48 -

 the 20-year periodo f the analysis. The discount rate is 12%.

 Based on these hypotheses, the net benefit ofthe project has been estimated at FCFA 3,5 billion by year 10
 and FCFA 6.1 by year 20. The benefit stream would turn positive from the fiRh year onward, andthe ERR
 for the productive investments would be 21%. (Details o f the economic analysis are in PIM.)

 A sensitivityanalysis on the differentvariables is presented inthe following table.

 Test                              Change of variable                                   ERR(%)
 Base case                                                                              21
 Test 1                            10%increase of costs                                 18
 Test 2                            10% reductiono f costs                              25
  Test 3                           10% increaseinDroduction                            24
I Test4                          I 10% reduction in moduction                         I 1 8                     I

 Numerous qualitative economic benefits (benefits accruing to the nation and its economy), can be identified
  as a consequence o f the project, including: (a) increased monetization in the country, reflected in a
  reduction o f barter; (b) increased efficiency in the productive rural sector, resulting from the amelioration
  o f skills o f farmers and the quality o f staff in the producer organizations; (c) increased production and
  assets of low-income people, due to access to funds to finance their small local projects; (d) greater
  participation in the economy o f marginal groups (poor men and women and isolated populations); and (e)
  enhancedknowledge o f financial issues-including the importance o f savings-among low-income families.

  Main Assumptions:
  N.A.

  Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
  N.A.




                                                        - 49 -

                                 Annex 5: Financial Summary
               CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project
                                        Years Ending
                                            2008
                                                ,-@PfJ34ENTATION PERIOD    \  J'P.
                       I  Year1    I Year2    I Year3   I Year4   I  Year5   I    Year6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs             5.8        5.7       5.4        4.0        0.0         0.0    0.0
 Recurrent Costs               0.8        0.9        1.o       1.o                    0.0    0.0
Total Project Costs            6.6        6.6       6.4        5.0        0.0         0.0    0.0
Total Financing                6.6        6.6       6.4        5.0        0.0         0.0    0.0

Financing
   IBRDllDA                    5.6        5.3       5.1        4.0                   0.0      0.0
  Government                   0.7        0.8       0.7        0.6                   0.0      0.0
       Central                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
       Provincial              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
   Co-financiers               0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Beneficiaries                  0.3        0.5       0.6        0.4                   0.0      0.0
Other(SCAC)                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing        6.6        6.6        6.4       5.O        0.0        0.0      0.0
Main assumptions:




                                             - 50 -

                    Annex 6: Procurementand Disbursement Arrangements
             CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project

Procurement

1. General

A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) and a Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) for Chad were carried out in 2000. No special exceptions, permit, or licenses need to be specified
inthe Credit documents for InternationalCompetitive Bidding(ICB), since Chad's procurement practices
allow IDA procedures to take precedenceover any contrary provisions inlocal regulations.

The conclusions and recommendations of the CPAR are incorporated into a Financial Management
Assessment Report (FMAR) for Chad, which provides a synthesis o f the CPAR and the CFAA. The main
conclusion regarding public procurement procedures, which apply to an aggregate contract amount o f
about U S 6 0 million per year, is as follows: the legal and administrative framework, which is solid and
based on the principle o f competition, constitutes an acceptable basis; however, it needs urgent and
significant improvement to change the existing cumbersome procedures and to increase the absorption o f
financial resources and provide more efficiency andtransparency inprocurement. Improvements suggested
by the CPAR which include the elaboration of a Bidder Guide (Guide aux Soumissionnaires), has already
beenachieved andtraining sessions provided.

2. Guidelines

Procurement o f Goods and Works financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). Community Participation in Procurement would be in accordance
with Clause 3.15 o f the Bank's Guidelines. Consultancy services by f m s or individuals financed by IDA
would be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997,revised in September 1997, January 1999,and May 2002).

3. Procurement Management

At the national andinter-regional levels, the Project Coordination and Management Unit(NPCMU) and the
Inter-regional Project Coordination and Management Units (IRPCMUs) respectively, would be responsible
for the management o f the procurement of works, goods and consulting services. The NPCMU would be
staffed with competent and experienced personnel, including a national Project coordinator, an
Administrative and Financial Management Specialist, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, an
Accountant, a Procurement Specialist, a Gender Specialist, and support staff, recruited under terms o f
reference and terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Consultants would be used as necessary to carry
out specific tasks.

A Project Implementation Manual (PIM) has been prepared by the Government. It is a living document
that would be continuously modified, subject to agreements between the Government o f Chad and IDA, as
new lessons are learned and incorporated for future use. The project's implementation procedures and
internal organization are defined in the manual and include: (a) basic guidelines for the subproject cycle,
procedures for calling for bids, selecting consultants, and awarding contracts; (b) internal organization for
supervision and control, including operational guidelines defining the role of the executing agency and



                                                    -51 -

reporting requirements; and (c) disbursementprocedures. More detailed information i s described in the (i)
Accounting and Financial Management manual, (ii)Monitoring and Evaluation guide, and                      (iii)
Competitive Research Grant manual.          The PIM section related to the subprojects will cover all
documentation mentioned inAnnex B (Procurement inCDD projects) of the Reference Guide for Fiduciary
Management for Community-Driven Development Projects dated May 07, 2002. Procurement o f
ASPOP-financed community subprojects would follow procedures described in the PIM which has been
reviewed to reflect the Bank's comments and has been adopted during negotiations by the Government.

ASPOP would operate in accordance with detailed procurement procedures specified in the P I M under the
NPCMU's overall supervision and assisted by the IRPCMUs to facilitate and ensure proper procurement
implementation.

ASPOP's 6 IRPCMUs, each o f which would be headed by a Coordinator assisted by, a Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist, an Accountant, and relevant support staff would be responsible for: (i)   assisting the
producers organization in identifying and prioritizing subprojects; (ii)  providing them with standardized
designs (developed by line ministries) and contracts; (iii)      monitoring contracts entered into by the
beneficiary community at the local level, and assisting them inundertaking the tenderingprocess for goods
andmaterials procured; (iv) superviskg the works (this may be done by NGOs and local service providers
chosenprimarily on a competitive basis); and (v) coordinating and obtaining clearances from the NPCMU.
The IRPCMUs would also be responsible for maintaining appropriate forms for contracts to be usedby the
producers organization. Incases where NCB for the subprojects would be necessary, the IRPCMUs, with
the assistance of relevant line ministries, would coordinate the bidding process on behalf o f the beneficiary
community, and would prepare the material requirements and bills o f quantities. Monitoring and audit
procedures for procurementwould be detailed inthe PIM. ASPOP staff would be trained, once recruited, in
IDA procurement procedures, and ongoing support would be provided from the World Bank throughout the
project's life.

4. ProcurementPlanning/Advertising

The NPCMU would prepare a draft General Procurement Notice (GPN), in particular describing
procurement of goods and services, to be finalized and published in the United Nations Development
Business (UNDB) andinlocal newspapers immediately after Board approval. The GPNwould be updated
every year and submitted to IDA. It would show all outstanding ICB for goods and consulting assignments.
Specific procurement notices for goods and works would be advertised in the national press o f wide
distribution and internationally for ICB contracts. Request for expression o f interest would be published in
local newspapers. Answers to these expressions would be used to establish lists o f NGOs and service
providers who would help communities. Sufficient time would be allowed (minimum o f 14 days) before
preparing the short list.

5. ProcurementMonitoringand Evaluation

The NPCMU with the assistance o f the IRPCMUs, would maintain a computer-based tracking system to
monitor all procurement-related information for project implementation. Such monitoring would provide
information including the IRPCMUs supervising the procurement process, number and amount o f contracts
awarded under each district's supervision, procurement methods, amount and nature o f contracts procured
through each method, number and amount o f contracts subject to prior review by IDA, and number o f
beneficiary community that have been directly contracted to execute works. The reports would be reviewed
by IDA during the supervision missions.



                                                    - 52 -

ASPOP's financing for subprojects would not exceed CFAF30,000,000 equivalent per subproject.
Subprojects under component 1 (total equivalent to US$9.5 million), would comprise a broad spectrum o f
activities to be undertaken with direct participation and financial contribution o f the beneficiaries. They
would be implementedin most cases by the producers organization (beneficiaries) themselves. The project
would finance, as demand-driven subprojects: (a) productive investments and (b) the competitive research
grant program. It i s not possible to determine the exact mix o f goods, small works, and services to be
procured under these activities due to their demand-driven nature. Funding for these activities would be in
the form ofgrants. Therefore, the types ofactivities to be financed under subprojectsandtheir procurement
details would depend on the needs identified by the beneficiaries. The implementation may involve small
civil works contracts with entrepreneurs, or even artisans (tiicherons). In any event, the value o f
consultancy contracts would generally not represent more than 10% o f the global costs o f the subprojects.
For the direct transfers to producers organization, the amounts involvedwould be basedon their capacity to
manage those funds. ASPOP would be responsible for ensuring compliance with these Guidelines, and
ex-post review o frandom subprojects would be conducted periodically by IDA and independent consultants
appointed by the Government.

The Competitive Research Grant Program under component 1 would support applied research aimed at
finding solutions to constraints on the productive investments subprojects that are both cotton and
noncotton related.     The selection o f consultants to execute this program would be done through
Quality-Based Selection (QBS) under the Consultant guidelines and would involve a review process,
criteria and operational procedures to develop a Work Program Agreement (WPA). More specifically, the
WPA would cover three main areas: (i)       the research proposal itself based on agreed criteria; (ii)   the
reporting deliverables; and (iii) the financing plan setting out the benchmarks/milestones against which
payments would be made andjustifying them against the budget. Payment terms would be clearly spelled
out in the agreement between project authorities and the participating institute. WPAs would be finalized
based on a competitive process open to both national research institutions and non-national institutions
(private sector, universities, NGOs and others with capacity to undertake agricultural research). The
process to be usedfor agreeing WPAs through the Competitive Grant Program would be part o f the PIM.
For individual purchases o f equipment and materials under the WPA exceeding US$lO,OOO but are below
US$30,000 equivalent, the institute would be required to use national shopping procedures under Bank
Procurement Guidelines for the purchase o f equipment.

Given the community-based objectives of the project and intended use of NGO, community labor, and
labor-intensive methods; small works and procurement o f goods and supplies for all subprojects would be
done following the Community Participation methods in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank and described in the PIM. The procedures include: lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the
basis o f quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractorshppliers in response to a written
specification. Inthe case o f works done by producers organizations with the help o f a "tbcheron", the direct
contracting with a specific "tbcheron" would be acceptable (provided that the value of the contract does not
exceed US$lO,OOO equivalent); but his selection would have to be approved by a meeting of the members
o f the beneficiary association. The procurement o f goods by producers organization or institutes would be
based on a minimumo f three price quotations. For the recruitment o f consultants, producers organizations
would be encouragedto follow procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Simplified contracts may
be usedfor short-term assignment (less than 6 months), but direct contracting would be acceptable, subject
again to the approval o f a meeting o f the members of the beneficiary association and to ASPOP's
non-objection to the choice o f the consultant (based on qualifications and experience) and to the terms and
conditions of the contract.




                                                     - 53 -

6. IDA Prior Reviews

IDA'Sprior review would be required for the first five contractshbprojects awarded under component 1
for each o f the six IRPCMUs.

Since the Project is not expected to have large value contracts, it was considered not necessary to use the
most recent prior review threshold (PRT) recommended for the Africa Region for procurement o f works
and goods. However, at the end o f the first year, the capacity o f the NPCMU to handle procurement would
be reviewedto determine ifitwould necessaryto apply the most recent PRT.

0   Civil works. With the exception o f civil works (total equivalent to US$0.96 million of which US$0.87
    million i s financed by IDA) for the rehabilitation of PCU offices, laboratories and PSMCs'
    construction, all other civil works are included in subprojects and are dealt with under subprojects.
    Contracts estimated to cost more than US$30,000 and less than US$200,000 each, up to an aggregate
    amount not to exceed US$500, 000 equivalent would be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
    contracts awarded under NCB. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per
    contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent will be procuredon the basis
    o f quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors. Contracts on or above the individual
    threshold o f US$200,000 would be procured by ICB procedures. All contracts on or above the
    individual threshold o f US$200,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review. Draft standard bidding
    document formats for NCB would be reviewedand agreedupon with IDA before credit effectiveness.

0   Goods and Vehicles (total equivalent to US$1.92 million o f which US$1.8 is financed by IDA) would
    include vehicles, communication equipment, office equipment, computers and software for the PCMU
    andIRPCMU offices.        Contracts which are estimated to cost more than the equivalent o f US$200,000
    would be procured by ICB procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 but more
    than US$30,000 would be procured using NCB procedures, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
    US$800,000 equivalent. Goods and equipment that are estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per
    contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$400, 000 equivalent, may be procured under
    contracts awarded on the basis o f national shopping or intemational procedures in accordance with the
    provisions o f paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Procurement o f vehicles and office equipment
    through IAPSO may be envisaged. All contracts on or above the individual threshold o f US$200,000
    would be subject to IDA's prior review.

For civil works and goods, domestic preference margins are applicable to domestic manufacturers or
suppliers as perparagraphs 2.54 and 2.55 ofthe Guidelines.


0   Consultancy services and training contracts financed by IDA are estimated at US$4.8 million. They
    would be: (i)  for the identification, preparation and implementation o f the subprojectsunder component
    1; (ii)for capacity building under component 2; (iii) studies, supervision, support o f project
                                                                for
    implementation, financial management andprocurement support, financial and procurement audits; and
    (iv) technical matters and training. Consultants required for technical units attached to the IPCMUs
    costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent would be selected using the Quality-Based Selection (QBS)
    because of the highly specialized nature of these assignments. Consultants' contracts required for the
    competitive research costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, will also be selected using the QBS
    method.




                                                      - 54 -

Contracts estimated to cost on or above the threshold of US$lOO,OOO for firms would be awarded through
the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality o f the proposalsbefore combining
quality and cost evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. In principle, the project
would encourage, to the extent possible, engagement o f national consultants with a view to develop local
capacity, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Short list o f consultants for contracts estimated under
US$50,000 may be comprised entirely o f national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at
least three) are locally available at competitive costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for
specialized studies with NGOs. However, if foreign f m s have expressed interest for those contracts, they
would not be excluded from consideration. Consultants' Qualifications method would be usedfor thematic
research.

Contracts for financial audit and other services o f a standard nature not exceeding US$lOO,OOO equivalent
per contract, would be procured through the Least-Cost-Selection (LCS) the firm with the lowest price i s
selectedprovidedits technical proposal received the minimumqualifying mark.

Training services under US$100,000 equivalent per contract would be procured using Consultant
Qualifications methods. The NPCMU would ensure widely publicizedprocurement notice to get candidacy
from consultants. Based on agreed-upon criteria, the NPCMU would maintain and update a list o f
consultants which would be used to establish short-lists.

Advisory services related to activities o f Technical Support Agencies under component 2 (Capacity
Building for Agricultural Services), may with the IDA'Sprior agreement, be procured, using the Single
Source Selection Method. Prior review would include the approved annual training program, including the
number of participants and cost estimates, organization of training, terms o f refinance and short list of
firms.

Specialized advisory services (services for lecturers and small studies), that can be provided by individual
consultants would be selected through comparison o f their qualifications for the assignment, on the basis o f
CVs and references, among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly, in
accordancewith Part V o f the Bank Guidelines.

Consultants' contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and exceeding US$50,000
equivalent for individuals will be subject to prior review.         Terms o f Reference for all contracts,
single-source hiring, assignments of a critical nature (as determined by IDA, like the financial audit), or
amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the prior review threshold, will be subject to prior
review. For consultants' contracts estimated above US$lOO,OOO, opening o f the financial envelopes will not
take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation. All consultancy services
not subject to prior review would be subject to post review in accordance with Appendix 1 o f the
Guidelinesfor selection of consultants.

7. ProcurementTrainingfor ProducersOrganization

Training in procurement procedures would be conducted as part o f capacity building under support
services to producers organization component. No transfer o f funds under the subproject activities would
be made, unless the producers organization identified as beneficiaries have benefittedfrom formal training
inprocurement, basic management procedures, andproducers organization savings scheme set-up.




                                                     - 55 -

8. ProcurementCapacity Assessment

An assessmentof procurement capacity of the ASPOP has been carried out before appraisal in accordance
with the Operations Policy and Country Services Procurement guidelines dated July 15, 2002. Its main
recommendation was to develop an immediate action plan to buildASPOP's capacity to the level required
by the program. ASPOP falls inthe average-risk zone.

    Action plan to build procurement capacity.On the basis o f the procurement capacity assessment, an
    action plan has been prepared. The action plan was discussed during appraisal for its incorporation
    into the program, to build the immediate and long-term capacity o f the ASPOP to administer
    procurement neededby the program. Based on these recommendations, the following action plan with
    target dates was agreed upon with the Borrower: (a) setting up a NPCMU adequately staffed with
    qualified and motivated staff, including the recruitment o f a procurement proficient staff to ensure the
    efficiency and effectiveness in the procurement process; (b) developing a dialogue between the Bank
    and the Borrower to adapt institutional rules and practices as necessary to reduce risks o f lack o f
    transparency, as well as risks o f low quality documents requiring iterative revisions; (c) preparing a
    procurement plan and regular updating of such plan to reduce the risk o f the extension o f project
    duration; (d) providing technical assistance through short-term consultants as necessary; and (e)
    ensuring proper technical and financial audits o f the procurement procedures and contract
    management.

The Government has provided IDA with a draft procurement plan for the first-year program. The section
on procurement and the section on accounting and finance, and detailed job descriptions and terms o f
reference and performance requirements o f the accounting and procurement staff are included inthe PIM.
For each subsequent year, the procurement plan would be updated and submitted to the Bank for review
andapproval at the same time as the annual work program. These plans would includerelevant information
on goods, works, consulting services under the project, as well as the timing o f each milestone in the
procurement process, and would be reviewedby IDA supervision missions. The Government: (a) would use
the PIM and all its specific sections, (b) would use the Bank's sample bidding documents for intemational
competitive bidding, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection o f consultants, and the Standard
Bid Evaluation Reports; and (c) would conduct a review o f the biddingprocedures after one year in the
course o f the annual review conducted with IDA.

0   Risk rating. ASPOP falls in the average-risk zone. Based on the risk rating and past experience with
    projects in Chad and other countries, the thresholds for prior review have been set up as shown below.
    The post-review will apply to at least 15% contracts not subject to prior review.

Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds would be maintained by the borrowers
for ex-post review by auditors andby IDA supervision missions.




                                                   - 56 -

Procurement methods (Table A)

              Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                         (US% `000 equivalent)

                             NCB         Other 11  N.B.F      Total
Category                                 Methods
                                         21
1. Grants for                              9,550               9,550
subprojectsand
Competitive                               (9,550)              (9,550)
Research

                                                      ~




ciaries'                                            1,810      1,810
contributions
3. Civil works
(offices/                      177         782                  959
laboratories                  (145)        (728)                (873)
rehabilitation
and other
construction)
4. Goods
(vehicles,       1,413        490           15                  1,918
equipment,
furniture and   (1,333)       (435)        (13)                (1,835)
materials)
5. Services                              5,650                 5,650

-Consultanty                             (4,758)               (4,758)
services for
subprojects
-Technical
Assistance
- Training
6. Operating                                        1,117      3,734
costs                                                          (2,041)
 7. PPF                                                         1,000
                                                                1,000)

Total             1,413      667           19,614   2,927       24,62 1
                 (1,333)     (580)                             (20,003)
                                          (18.090)




                                             - 57

I/ Figuresinparentheses are the amounts to befinanced by the IDA Credit. All costs include
contingencies

21    Includes subprojects, competitive research program, grants, civil works and goods to be procured
through shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office,
training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managingthe project.
                                                    1
                                                  (US$ `000 equivalent)

                                                                ca
Consultancy
Services                                1
Expenditure
Category                         QBS          SFB     lo,CS                  Other   N.B.F.    I Total
                                                                                                 cost 1/
A. Firms                      1Table Al: ConsultantSelectionArrangements (optional)




                :o:S

                                0.00       0.00                 1,200      1,400                 3,300
                                                                                     (0.00)      (2,982)
B. Individuals                                                                                   2,350
                                                                                     (0.00)      (1,776)
Total                                                                                            5,650
                     (300)    I(500)    I 0.00
                                           (0.00)   I (82)      (1,736)  I (2,140)   (0.00)    I (4,758)

11 including contingencies

         Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                      QBS = Quality-based Selection
                      SFB-= Selectionunder a FixedBudget
                      LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                      CQ = SelectionBasedon Consultants' Qualifications
                      Other = Selection o f individualconsultants (per SectionV o f Consultants Guidelines), sole
source, Commercial Practices, etc.
                      N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed
                      Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit

Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods andPrior Review

  Expenditure            Contract Value     Procurement Method    Contracts Subject to
  Category               Threshold                                Prior Review
                         (US$ thousand)                           KJS$ million)
  1.     Works
    a. subprojects         <3 0             National shopping     Firstfive contracts/
                                            (community            subprojects awarded
                                            Participation as per  for each of the six
                                            PIM)                  IRPCMUs
  b. Other works           <3 0            Vational Shopping      'ost Review

                                           VCB
                          >30 and <200                            iirst contract
                                           :CB
                           >200                                 ill

  2.     Goods

      a. subprojects       <30              National shopping     Post Review
                                            (community
                                            participation as per
                                            PIM)



    b. Other goods         <30              Shopping              Post Review
                                            (International and
                                            National)

                                            IAPSO/SS              All

                         >30 and <200       NCB                   Firstcontract

                          >200              ICB                   All
~~
  3. Services

  Consulting firms         >IO0             QCBSISS               All


                           <loo             ss                    All


                                            QBS                   Post Review (except
                                            QCBS/CQ               for TORS)



  Financial Audit                                                 All



                                           - 59 -

                          <IO0                    LCS
 Training Services                                                      Prior Review (TORS,
                           <loo                   CQ                    programsandcosts)

                                                                        All


                                                  ss

    Individuals            >50                    3 cvs                 All
                           <5 0                   3 cvs                 Post Review (except
                                                                        for TORS)

                                                                        All
                                                  ss
 Competitive               <50                    QBS                   All
 Research


Total value of contracts subjectto prior review: 80% of total costs
OverallProcurementRiskAssessment: Average
Frequency o fprocurementsupervision missions proposed:One every six (6) months(includes special
procurementsupervisionfor post-review/audits).




                                                  - 60 -

Disbursement

Allocation of credit proceeds(Table C)

                                Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

I       Expenditure Category             I  Amount in US$million      I        Financing Percentage
Civil Works                                          0.78                   100%o f foreign expenditures
                                                                            and 82% o f local expenditures
Goods andvehicles                                     1.48                  100%o f foreign expenditures
                                                                            and 82% of local ewenditures
Consultants' Services & Audits                        1.28                               82%
Training                                             3.08                               100%
Grants for Subprojects                               9.55                    100%o f amount disbursed
(a) Productive Investment    Grants
(8.95)
(b) Competitive ResearchGrants (0.60)
Operating Costs                                      2.03                                78%
Refundingo f Project Preparation                      1
                                                      .oo

Unallocated                                          0.80

Total Project Costs                                  20.00

Total                                                20.00




Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

0   Statement of Expenditures: Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation
    except for items o f expenditures under contracts o f less than: (a) US$200,000 for civil works; (b)
    US$200,000 for goods; (c) US$lOO,OOO for consultant services contracts for firms; (d) US$50,000 for
    consultant services contracts for individuals; as well as (e) training and operating costs, which would
    be claimed on the basis o f Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for SOEs
    will be retained at the NPCMU and will be readily accessible for review by periodic IDA supervision
    missions and external auditors.

Special account:
To facilitate the program implementation and reduce the volume o f withdrawal applications, the
Government will open two Special Accounts (SA) in FCFA in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The first Special Account (SAa) will be used to finance all the transactions related to
the subprojects (productive investments and competitive research subprojects) and the second Special
Account (SAb) will be used for all other project's implementation activities. The authorized allocation for
SAa will be CFAF 500,000,000 and will cover about three months o f eligible expenditures. The authorized
allocation for SAb will be CFAF 500,000,000 and will cover about three months o f eligible expenditures.
Upon credit effectiveness, IDA will deposit the amount of CFAF 250,000,000 in SAa and CFAF


                                                   -61  -

250,000,000 in SAb, representing 50% o f the authorized allocation o f each Special Account.        The
remaining balance will be made available when the total commitments issued amount to the equivalent o f
USD 3.0 million. The SpecialAccounts will be usedfor all payments in an amount below 20% of the initial
deposit to the Special Accounts. Further deposits by IDA into the Special Accounts will be made against
withdrawal applications supportedby appropriate documents.

SA Subaccounts. Upon completion o f a financial management system review, to be found satisfactory by
IDA, to evaluate the financial management system in place in each IRPCMU, the Borrower may
additionally open and maintain in CFA Francs, for the benefit o f each IRPCMU, one Second Generation
Special Account o f SpecialAccount A, each in a commercialbank andon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and on attachment. The
NPCMU shall withdraw from Special Account A and deposit into each Second Generation Special Account
funds to assist each IRPCMU to pay for Productive Investment Grants under component 1 (Promotion of
Sustainable Growth in Agricultural Production) o f the Project. Such withdrawals and deposits shall be in
amounts sufficient to assist each IRPCMU to pay for such Grants in due course, providedthat, at no time,
shall the Borrower cause the amount held in any Second Generation Special Account to exceed CFA
Francs 60,000,000.

For the replenishment o f the subaccounts SAa, the coordinator o f the IRPCMU will present to the
coordinator of the NPCMU, statements o f expenditures signed by both himherself and the accountant,
along with Bank statements for the specified period. The coordinator o f the NPCMU will in turn attach
these documents to the applications for replenishment of the SAa. Upon review and verification o f the
SOEs, IDA will replenish these accounts. Supporting documentation will be retained by the IRPCMU and
the NPCMU andbe made available for review as requestedby the project financial management specialist
at the central level, IDA designated supervision missions, and the designated project auditors. The
procedure for the replenishment o f the SAa and subaccounts are specified in the administrative and
financial manual. Prior to credit effectiveness, an integrated computerized management system will be
implemented. This system will include a framework for the monitoring o f accounting and financial
management activities as well as the monitoring o f technical activities.

1. Flow offunds

The Special Accounts would be managed by the NPCMU which would use it to pay for all the eligible
expenditures. The NPCMU would ensure that all disbursements are effected in accordance with Bank
procedures. The NPCMU will have responsibility for the production o f the annual consolidated financial
statements.

Payments to producer organizations for implementing their subprojects would be made in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and Disbursement in Community-Based Projects (March 1998). In
the case o f Chad, the payments would be made by Inter-regional Project Coordination and Management
Units by transferring amounts approved for subprojects to the accounts opened by beneficiaries at local
banks or microcredit institutions. If none of them exist in some departments, h d s can be transferred
through the bank accounts of the service providers selected to provide support to producer organizations
withinthe respective regions.




                                                   - 62 -

2. Project Account

The Govemment o f Chad will open, prior to project's effectiveness, a project account for counterpart funds
ina commercial bank onterms and conditions acceptableto IDA.Its annual contribution to the project will
be made twice yearly at the beginning o f each semester.

3. Financial ManagementArrangements

        ExternalAudit

The records and accounts o f the project will be audited annually in accordance with international or any
other acceptable audit standards by an experienced and intemationally recognized audit firm acceptable to
IDA andhiredby PSAOP. The audit will include a comprehensivereview o fall SOEs andthe management
of the Special Accounts. The auditor will also be expected to issue a consolidated management report
covering all project accounts and with practical recommendations for improving the project internal control
system. Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than 6 months after the closing o f each fiscal
year.

        Supervision

Supervision will be carried out by the Project Financial Management Specialist (FMS) at least twice a year
but also before effectiveness andall along the implementationperiod. Half- yearly reports and also annual
audits and Management letters from the extemal auditors will be reviewedby the FMS. Close supervision
will also be performedbythe field-based FMS, to ensurethat the NPCMU financial management system is
operating adequately and that PSAOP financial management systemis progressingat the expected pace.

        Accounting System, Accounting Policies and Procedures

PSAOP will invest in an accounting and financial management system . This system should be able to
perform the following major functions: journal processing, budgeting, bank reconciliation, financial
reporting and control. PSAOP will use a double-entry cash-based system to produce financial data on the
project components. This will be maintained on the information system discussed above. The form of
reporting would be the FMRs described in the Administrative, Financial Management and Accounting
Procedures Manual.

         Books of Registry

Inaddition to the computerized accounting systeminstalled, and the books needed to maintain an accurate
and complete record of transactions, PSAOP will maintain a set of additional books of registry, either
within its system or outside it, for controlpurposes.

These books include:
a.       A fixedAsset Register;
b.       A Contracts Register;
A Book ofcontrol for document deliveries andcontrolled stationery suchas checks andforms .




                                                    - 63 -

         Budgeting

The project annual budgetwill have to be approved by the Committee.
Counterpart funds will have be inscribed in the Government annual budget and therefore,. budgeting for
project counterpart funds will follow the Government budget cycle which i s as follows:


0    March:               MinistryofFinance communicates budgetlimitsto Ministries
    From March:           Budget prepared and submittedto the Ministryo f Finance
    July:                 MinistryofFinance consolidates budget
    September:           National Budget approvedby the Cabinet
0   Oct-Dec:             National Assembly approves the budget
    December:            Approved amounts communicatedto Ministries
0   January:             First funds releasedfor execution inthe new year.

         Reporting (FinancialMonitoring Reports)

PSAOP will produce half-yearly consolidated reports and provide them to the fmanciers, IDA and the
Borrower:

    Financial Reports showing the sources anduses o f funds by category;
    Financial Statements showing the uses o f funds by project components;
    Physical Reports linking financial informationto Project physical output;
0   Procurement MonitoringReports providing information on the procurement o f goods, work and related
    services andon the selection o f consultants.

The actual format and content of the FMRs have been agreed at negotiations and PSAOP i s expected to
demonstrate its capacity to produce the required FMRs. The NPCMU is expected to show, by project
effectiveness, its capacity to produce FMRs consolidating all project activities carried out by the different
implementing agencies.

         Project FinancialStatements

Inaddition to the monthlyreconciliationandhalf-yearly monitoringreports, the Projectwill produce annual
Project Financial Statements for analytical and audit purposes. These Financial Statements will be
composed of:

    A consolidated Statementof SourcesandUses ofFunds(showing IDA and Counterpart Fundsas well
    as funds provided by donors);

    A Statement reconciling the balances on all BankAccounts to the bank balanceson the Statementof
    Sources and Uses o f Funds;

0   SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listingindividual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements by the
    SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;

0   A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters;




                                                   - 64 -

    Notes on significant accounting policies andaccounting standards adoptedby management when
    preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or explanations that may be deemed
    appropriate by managementto enhance the presentation o f a "true andfair view".

        Monitoring

Project monitoring will take the following forms:

    Monthly and quarterly and half-yearly monitoring reports;
0   Annual extemal audit of the Project  .

        DisbursementArrangement

Project funding will follow Bank procedures as currently applied. PSAOP will manage two IDA Special
Accounts A & B, six subaccounts for each special account, and a Project Counterpart Account that will
hold the Government contribution to the project. Commercial Banks, yet to be selected, will manage the
accounts in which funds for the PSAOP subprojects will be deposited. Funds will be channeled from
PSAOP Special Accounts to these h d s in the form of 90 days cash advances for the commercial bank to
pay the private operators. In response, the commercial bank will provide to NPCMU activity reports
showing the level and movements in the accounts. An agreement between NPCMU and the commercial
bank will be drawn spellingthe obligation o f the latter.

The IRPCMU at the inter-regional level will also operate with subaccounts on the basis o f cash advances
determinedby their annual work programs andbudgets. They will prepare the entity annual work program
andbudget, will manage the resources, keep the records and ensure that requests for funding are prepared
and submittedto NPCMU on a timely basis. In spite o f the FMR system prescribed for the project, it is
suggested that a transaction-based disbursements approach should be used because the environment in
which the project will operate.
1           ACCOUNT                SOURCE              SIGNATORIES            MANAGING
                                  OFFUNDS                                    INSTITUTION
        SpecialAccount A         IDACredit       NPCMU Coordinator                             I
                                                 NPCMU;      Adm.     Fin.I
                                                                           NPCMU
                                                 Mana. Spec.
  2   Special Account B          IDA Credit      NPCMU Coordinator         NPCMU
                                                 NPCMU;      Adm.     Fin.

 3     Project   Counterpart Gov.
                               I             o f NPCMU Coordinator         NPCMU
       Account                   CHAD            NPCMU;      Adm.     Fin.
                                                 Mana. SDec

        Impactof ProcurementArrangementson FinancialManagement

Overall Project procurement arrangements will be the responsibility o f NPCMU.
                                      (See Procurement Assessment)




                                                    - 65 -

        Staffing and Training

The key staff o f the NPCMU, the National Project Coordinator, the Administrative and Financial
Management Specialist, the Accountant, the Procurement Specialist and the Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist, has been recruited under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The Accountant and the
Monitoring Evaluation Specialist at each of the IRPCMU will be responsible for keeping the financial
records andreport to NPCMUon monthly, quarterly and annual basis.

        TrainingPlan

The Financial Management staff will attend workshops and training sessions on the new fmancial
management computerized system before project effectiveness. Accountants and administrative and
procurement staffwill also be trained inprocedures relating to the use o f IDA funds (i.e. Special Accounts,
SOEs, Procurement, FMR, etc.) and in Financial Management including internal controls, information
systems and computer applications.

RISKASSESSMENT

      Country Risks

The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) is to be canied out at the end o f 2003 in
Tchad. Therefore it i s early to make an opinion on the finance management system and on the budget
procedures implemented at the country level. The conclusions o f the recent PPR andReviews carried inthe
country reveal significant weaknesses in both procurement and financial management areas within the
projects. Those areas have been clearly analyzed and appropriate measures and action plans recommended
for improving the quality of the portfolio. In the area o f procurement, financial management and
disbursement, the country needs close supervision and particularly capacity building. Despite the
weaknesses the environment is reliable for the implementation o f new projects. Therefore, due the weak
financial network available in Tchad, PSAOP will provide a substitute solution to the flow o f funds at the
grassroots' level.




                                                  - 66 -

Project Risks

The table below identifies the main risks faced by the project and existing or potential mitigation measures.


                   R i S k S                I RiskRating    I         Mitigation Measures
Delays in the recruitment of NPCMU          I      M        I Recruitment of key NPCMU staff as
staff                                                         conditions ofNegotiation.
Delays inthe recruitment o f IRPCMU staff'                   Planning of Progressive Recruitment of
                                                             key IRPCMU staff as conditions of
                                                    H       Negotiation.
                                                   M         Counterpart funds budgeted annually by
Delay inthe payment o fcounterpart fimds                     the Goiemment and deposited in
                                                             Project Account at the beginningo f
                                                             semester.
Counterpart funds are not sufficient to            M         The availability ofthe Counterpart funds
meet project needs                                           an aspect to clarify
Transfers o f funds at the Grassroots' level        H        Due to weak financial network, the
                                                            NPCMU should provide the substitute
                                                             solution
Delays inthe execution o f audits                  M         Appointment o f an external auditor i s a
                                                             condition of effectiveness and funds for
                                                             annual audits have beenbudgeted
Follow-      up    o f      the  progressive       M         NPCMU Coordinator will ensure that
implementation o f the Project.                              the follow-up aspect o f the project
                                                             implementation     pace     i s  part   of
                                                             monitoring terms o freference
Risk Rating: H (High); M (Moderate); N
                (Negligible)

Based on the evaluation above, the Project does not currently satisfy World Bank financial management
requirements.    In order to establish an acceptable control environment and to mitigate financial
management risks the various measures should be taken by the due dates as indicated in the table below.
The project financial management risk i s assessed as being moderate provided that the financial
management arrangements are properly implemented and the following financial management action plan
satisfactorily addressedinpractice:




                                                    -67  -

FinancialManagementAction Plan

          ACTIVITY             I RESPONSIBILITY     I   DEADLINE
Agreement on TORs for the                               Negotiation
recruitment of an External         Gov. Team
Auditor
Agreement on TORs forth
Project FinancialManagement        Gov. Team            Negotiation
Procedures Manual
Establish a fully operational
Computerized Financial
Management System:                                     Effectiveness
Acquisition of software;            ASPOP
Productionof the Project
FinancialManagement
Procedures Manual
Recruitment of an External          ASPOP               Effectiveness
Auditor
Opening of Project Accounts
(Special Accounts, Counterpart
FundsAccount)                       ASPOP               Effectiveness
Initial Deposit made in           Gov. of CHAD          Effectiveness
Counterpart Account            I                    I




                                          - 68 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
            CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project


 Project Schedule                                           Planned                  Actual
]Timetaken to prepare the project (months)      I         31                   I                  I
IFirst Bank mission (identification)            I         02/26/2001           I    02/26/2001    I
Appraisal mission departure                               11/18/2002                11/25/2002
 Negotiations                                             09/22/2003                10/18/2003

IPlanned Date of Effectiveness                  I         0313112004           I                  I

Prepared by:
Ousmane Seck

Preparation assistance:
Japanese Grant for project preparation (TF No. 051117 for US$440,000)

Bank staff who worked on the project included:




RemilekuCole                             Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist
                                         Sr. Environment & Information Specialist
Jean-Charles de Daruvar
Mohamed Bekhechi                         Lead Counsel Environment
                                         Sr. Environmental Specialist
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt                    Environmental Specialist)


Agnes Albert-Loth                        Sr. Finance Officer
FridolinOndobo                           Financial Management Specialist
                                          Financial Management Specialist
                                         Procurement Specialist
                                          Senior Procurement Specialist
Guy JosephMalembeti                      Procurement Officer
Marie-Louise Ah-Kee                      Procurement Analyst
                                         Sr. Agricultural Economist
VirginieVaselopulos                      Program Assistant
Korotimi Sylvie Traore                   Language Program Assistant
                                         Rural Development Specialist
Gilles Marie Veuillot
                                         Project Implementation Specialist




                                                  - 69 -

FAO/CP Staff:
Vittorio Silvestri    Financial Analyst (pre-appraisal and appraisal)
DidierComet           Rural Dvt. Specialist (pre-appraisal)

French Cooperation tSCAC):
Claude Torre            Rural Development Spec. at HQ
Guillaume Randriamapata Rural Development Spec. inNdjamena




                                                -70 -

                               Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
             CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project


A. Project ImplementationPlan

1.      Project Implementation Manual
 2.     Monitoring and EvaluationGuide
 3.     Competitive Research Grant Manual
 4.     Administrative and Financial Manual

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Detailed Project Cost Estimates

C. Other

1.      Rural Extension Strategy
 2.     Letter o fRural Development Policy
 3.     Study on restaffing of Ministry departments, restructuring of ONDR and other services with
        similar functions.
 4.     Institutional audit of public research institutions (ITRADand LRVZ)
 5.     Study on administrative andfinancial management o f ITRAD and LRVZ
 6.     Study on reorganization, restructuring and rehabilitation with PMTRA
 7.     Study on support to ruralprofessional organizations
 8.     Study on private sector providers inrural sector
 9.     Study on monitoring ofrural sector
10.     EnvironmentalAssessment andEnvironmental Mitigation Plan (OP 4.01)
11.     Safety o f Dams (OP 4.37)
12.     Pest Management Plan (OP 4.09)
13.     Resettlement Policy Framework (OPBP 4.12)
14.     Projects inInternational Waterways (OP 7.50)

*Including electronic files




                                                     -71 -

                                         Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                      CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer OrganizationsProject
                                                             24-Se~2003
                                                                                                                      Differencebetween expected
                                                                                                                               and actual
                                                                  Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO00527     2003 EDUCATIONSECTORREFORM PROJECT                   0.00      19.13                         0.00     44.86       0.00       0.00
P077240     2003 CRiTlCAL ELEC &WATER Sewices                    0.00      54.80                         0.00     47.94       3.78       0.00
P072226     2002 Second Population and AIDS Project              0.00      24.56                         0.00     20.65       2.48       0.00
P035672     2001 TD Nat.Transp.ProgramSuppotl Project            0.00      67.00                         0.00     47.99      27.45       0.00
P062840     2000 MANAGEMENTOF THE PETROLEUMECONOMY               0.00      17.50                         0.00      6.71       2.31       0.00
PO55122     2000 HEALTHSECTORSUPPORT PROJECT                     0.00      41.51                         0.00     25.78      19.73       0.00
PO48202     2000 TD CAPBLDG. PETROLEUM                           0.00      23.70                         0.00      7.34       9.91       0.00
PO44305     2000 TD/CMPIPELINE                                  39.50       0.00                         0.00     10.39       -4.28      0.00

PO00532     1998 TD HOUSEHOLDENERGY                              0.00       5.30                         0.00      0.61       0.46       -4.01

                                                      Total:   39.50      253.50                         0.00    212.27      61.85       -4.01




                                                                CHAD
                                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                            June 30 2003
                                                                     -
                                                         InMillionsUS Dollars

                                                                              Committed                                Disbursed
                                                                            IFC                                    IFC
     FY Approval              Company                              Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic     Loan     Equity       Quasi      Partic
     2002                    Finadev Tchad                          0.00       0.17       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00
     2000                    TOTCO                                13.90        0.00       0.00     13.90     13.90      0.00        0.00      13.90

                                       Total Portfolio:           13.90        0.17       0.00     13.90      13.90       0.00       0.00     13.90



                                                                        ApprovalsPendingCommitment

     FY Approval             Company                                   Loan       Equity         Quasi     Partic
     2002                    Finadev Tchad                             0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00

                             Total PendingCommitment:                  0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                 - 72 -

                                                       Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                  CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer OrganizationsProject
                                                                                     Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                 Saharan       Low-
                                                                      Chad          Africa   income             Developmentdiamond.
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                                          7.9          674      2,511                          Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                      200           470         430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                         1.6          317       1,069                               T

Averageannual growth, 1995-01
PopulationI%)                                                            2.8           2.5        1.9
Laborforce I%)                                                          2.9            2.6        2.3           GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                                                per                                   primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                           capita                              nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                         64
Urban population(% oftotalpopulation)                                    24             32         31
Lifeexpectancy at birth (years)                                          48             47         59                               1
Infantmortality (per 1.000 livebirths)                                  101             91         76
Childmalnutrition(% of chiidmn under 5)                                  39                                          Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                       27             55         76
Illiteracy(% ofpowlation ape 15+1                                        56             37         37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-ape population)                    67             78         96           -Chad           ..    Low-income group
    Male                                                                 85             85        103         ~




    Female                                                               49             72         88

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                            1981       1991          2000       2001          I Economlcratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                           0.88        1.9           1.4        1.6
Gross domesticinvestmentlGDP                                             6.5          17.0       41.6
Exports of goodsand servicedGDP                              15.1      12.0           16.6       14.3                             Trade

Gross domesticsavingslGDP                                               -5.9           1.5        3.1
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                                               -1.1           3.2        4.3                                T

CurrentaccountbalancelGDP                                    -2.4       -7.6         -13.8      -37.3
InterestpaymentdGDP                                           0.0        0.2           0.6        0.8
Total debtlGDP                                               29.6      33.5           79.4
Total debt service/exports                                    8.7       4.5           11.1
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                                             41.8
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                                         247.2
                                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                           1981-91 1991-01             2000          2001    2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                             5.8           2.5        0.6           8.5       22.3             -Chad                Low-incomegroup
GDP per capita                                  3.2          -0.5       -2.1           5.4       18.9         ~




Exportsof goods and services                    6.6           0.7       4.9           -7.4       69.5

STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                            1981       4991          2000       2001            Growthof Investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                  39.7      36.5           39.2       38.6           200

Industry                                                     11.7      13.3           13.8       13.7           100
   Manufacturing                                                       10.6           11.2       10.2
Services                                                    46.5       50.2          47.0        47.7             0

Privateconsumption                                                     97.0           90.7       89.2         1.100 1
General government consumption                                           8.9           7.8        7.8                      -GDI
Importsof goods and services                                22.7       24.4           32.0       52.8                                       -GDP


                                                        1981-91 1991-01              2000       2001           Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averageannualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                   3.5        2.9          -3.5        4.1         200

Industry                                                      5.9       4.2            0.5       12.4         150
   Manufacturing                                                         3.6          -1.9        0.2         100
Services                                                      6.2        1.7           3.6       10.4           50

Privateconsumption                                            3.8        1.8          -3.0       29.3            0

Generalgovernment consumption                                13.0        0.0           3.0        8.0          -50
Grossdomestic investment                                     18.0       6.8           36.0      172.0
Importsof goods and services                                  9.3        1.2           8.4      158.6

Note:2001 data are preliminalyeslimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill be incomplete.




                                                                                 - 73 -

                                                                                                                     Chad
                                                       ~         ~~




PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1981   1991     2000   2001     pill(%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 4.1       3.8      12.4
ImplicitGDP deflator                     8.1    3.1       3.4       7.9     10


Government finance                                                           0
(% of GDP,includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 9.0       8.0       7.8    -10
Current budget balance                         -1.3      -2.0      -1.6    1       -GDPdefiator          &CPi             1
Overall surpluddeficit                         -6.2     -12.3  -11.o

TRADE                                                                                                                    I
                                        1981   1991     2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                              Export and Importlevels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                             194      181       191
 conon                                          95        71        80
 Cattle                                         57        68        69
 Manufactures                                     0
Total imports (cif)                            343       243       560
 Food                                             7
 Fuel and energy                                11        28        26
                                                                        I
 Capitalgoods                                   100
                                                                                 95    90    97   98      99    00
Export price index (1995=100)                   136      107        116
Import price index (1995=100)                   135       91        92                   Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       101      117        126

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1981   1991     2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                              Current account balanceto GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services             88   224       233       241
Imports of goods and services            107   458       450       913
Resource balance                         -19   -233     -217       -672

Net income                                -1     -3        -9        -8
Net current transfers                     -1    93        32        20

Current account balance                  -21   -143     -193       -660

Financing items (net)                     19    135      198       666
Changes in net reserves                     2     8        -5        -6    1-40 1

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$millions)                     110        129
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$)         271.7 282.1     713.0  732.4

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1981   1991     2000     2001      1
(US$ millions)                                                              Composition of ZOO0 debt (US0 mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     259    629     1,116
  IBRD                                      0     0         0
  IDA                                     36    235      515

Total debt service                          8    11       26
  IBRD                                      0     0         0
  IDA                                       0     2         8

Compositionof net resource flows
  Official grants                         56    113       61
  Official creditors                        3   89        18
  Private creditors                         6    -1        -1
  Foreign direct investment                 0     4       15
  Portfolio equity                          0     0         0              I                    c:7a
World Bank program
  Commitments                               0     0      150        104     A. IBRD                         E . Bilateral
  Disbursements                             0   46        18                B IDA     D .Other multilateral F Private
                                                                                                              -
  Principal repayments                      0     1         4               C iMF
                                                                               ..                           G -Short-term
  Net flows                                 0   46        13
  Interestpayments                          0     1         3
  Net transfers                             0   44        10




                                                   - 74 -

                                       AdditionalAnnex 1I
            CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project

                             Synergy between PROADEL and ASPOP


   Areas of           PROADEL specificity               ASPOP specificity                 Synergies and
   possible                                                                             complementarities
 overlapping
                                                                                    A part ofbeneficiaries are
                                                                                   ~

Beneficiaries    2ommunity Based                  'roducers' organizations
                 Irganizations                                                      addressedby the two
                                                                                    projects, but on different
                                                                                    andcomplementary
                                                                                    objectives.

                                                                                    Harmonized
                                                                                    communicationplans o f
                                                                                    bothprojects are being
                                                                                    jointly prepared and
                                                                                    imtiemented.
Decisiodselectio ,ocation: Sub prefecture I       .ocation :Department            Zommunication and
ncommitteesfor Iepartment                                                         :oordinationbetween the
micro-projects                                                                    :ommitteeswill be
                                                                                  itrengthenedthrough the
                 :omposition :                    :omposition:                    iharing o f the basic document
                 Aembers will be representatives dembers will be                  Ifthe two projects, the

                  I fCBOs including women and     epresentatives from producer ninutes o fthe decision
                 epresentativesof                 rganizations including         :ommittees meetings andthe
                 .econcentratedtechnical          vomen, civil society, private    oca1development plans (sent
                 iinistries.                      ector and deconcentrated         o the ASPOP).
                                                  echnical ministries.
National steering                                                                 9 common steering
committee                                                                          :ommittee.
                 lubproiects                      hbproiects
Financingof      'he programwill co-finance       Nil1finance demanddriven         iegional Project Coordinatior
subprojects      lemanddrivencollective (i) reductive subprojects                 mdManagement Unitsand
investments      ocial activities, and(ii) elevant to producer                   iroject Steering Committees
                 arge-scale natural resource      rganizations. The project wil   gill insure  that the preparatioi
                  nanagement activities. The      lot finance any individual      ifthe annualwork programs
                 lroject will not finance any     equest nor subprojects such     ire really coordinated and
                 ndividual requestnor             is agricultural inputs and farr :omplement each other.
                  ubprojects such as agricultural :quipment that could be         Service providers will work
                  nputs and farm equipmentthat    Aigible for credit or under    :ogetherin the preparation anc
                  ould be eligible for credit or  )therprojects, including          rnplementation o f subprojects
                 nder other projects, including  'ROADEL.
                 'SAOP.
Decentralized    kegional level.                 Cegionallevel.                  Regional Management Units
Project                                                                           will be established inthe


                                                 - 75 -

Management                                                                       same cities and where
                                                                                 possible inthe same building
                                                                                 for a better collaboration and
                                                                                 beneficiaries information.
                                                                                 This collaborationwill be
                                                                                 strengthenedthrough common
                                                                                 periodical meetings, exchange
                                                                                 o fprogress reports andjoint
                                                                                 field visits.
Decentralized    Institutional support will be     "illhelpthemicrofinance       Activities financed under the
Financial Systemprovided to strengthen the micro iystemthrough the               projects shouldnot interfere
                 finance sector.                  itructuring o f the clients    with activities o f local micro
                                                    lemands andproducer          finance institutions. The
                                                   Irganizations.                increase o f financial capacity
                                                                                 o fthe beneficiary producer
                                                                                 organizations through
                                                                                 jumpstarting support for
                                                                                 productive investments will
                                                                                 complement the institutional
                                                                                 support.
ImprovingNRM Will focus on large scale issues      Vi11address soil fertility and Service providers will work
                 (watershed management, forest    vater management at the farm together inthe preparation
                 management, biodiversity and      eve1(conservation, tillage,    andimplementationo fNRM
                 pastoral areas management).       :overroping and anti-erosion subprojects.
                                                   acilities).
Supporting the Will support the decentralizatior Nil1provide support to           Underthe leadership ofthe
decentralization process: support to the legal and leconcentratedtechnical        DecentralizationMinistry,the
process          regulatory framework definition ninistries.                      deconcentration will be more
                 capacity buildingrelated to the                                  effective and the
                 decentralizationprocess.                                         decentralization process will
                                                                                  bepromoted.
Capacity         Will provide training for:        Will provide training for:    The training planwill be
building                                                                         preparedandimplemented
                                                                                 jointly as required,at both
                                                                                 regional and national levels.


                 0 Subproject-related skills       1 Subproject-related skills
                 (including local development      marketing, planning,
                plans andparticipatory             rganizational, technical and
                 assessment).                      inancial management, etc.).


                 0 Decentralization                I Technical and financial



                   Accountability and govemanct     1support to private sector
                 (monitoring, management, etc.)     ervice providers (including
                                                    >emanddriven Extensionand
                                                    esearch)



                                                  - 76 -

               Poverty reduction behavior   0 Technical ministries and the
              changes (health, nutrition,   Cellule Permanente and their
             HIV/AIDSprevention, etc.)
Rural sector  The project will develop a
monitoring    computerized M&E system         computerized rural sector   systemo f the rural sector will
system        which will gather information   monitoring system, which    integrate the M&Efor
              indata bases about              will gather informationin   PROADELand ASPOP as
              infrastructures, service        databases about the         well as other rural
              providers, CBO and              channels, producer          developmentprojects.
              communes andthe                 organizations service
              decentralization process.       providers andproductive
                                              investments.




                                             =77 =

         AdditionalAnnex 12- EnvironmentalMitigationand Monitoring Plan (EMP)

              CHAD:Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project

I.Identificationofpotentialenvironmentalandsocialimpactsofinvestmentstobefundedunderthe
proposedproject

In support of its objective to strengthen the capacity of producer organizations to improve agricultural
production as well as their incomes, the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project
(ASPOP) will finance a total o f 3,000 subprojects in areas o f small-scale water management schemes
(hydro-agricultural retention pools, small ponds, hillside water retention structures, pastoral wells, small
inigation and drainage work, and small dams; livestock watering points; gardening wells; water treatment
facilities for livestock; and other infrastructure (storage infrastructure; processing units; rural veterinary
facilities); and soil conservation infrastructure.

Environmentalimpacts

The increase in agricultural production, the construction and rehabilitation of small-scale water
management schemes, and the provision of other infrastructure are expected to have positive environmental
impacts such as flood protection, recharging o f groundwater resources, erosion protection, crop protection,
and improved food supplies. The provision o f pastoral wells inparticular will improve livestockproduction
inthe project areas. At the same time, negative environmental impacts such as borrow pits, soil and water
pollution, over-abstraction o f groundwater resources as a result o f well construction, salinization and
sedimentation, loss of flora and fauna due to various construction activities and small-scale irrigation, and
increased use o fpesticides may occur.

     Small-scale water management schemes: These schemes include: (i) dams for flood protection;
                                                                              small
     (ii)irrigation networks o f small dams, dykes, canals, spillways and retention ponds for rice cultivation;
     and (iii)water retentionponds (primarily requiredinriver tributaries that are dry inthe dry season) that
     collect and retain surface run-off water for ground water recharge. The environmental impacts o f these
     schemes are largely positive as they enable the producer organizations to store and use water for crop
     and livestock production. For example, as the ground water tables are beingrecharged, wells could be
     dug in the surrounding areas to provide water for livestock. Inthe absence of these ponds, the surface
     water runs off downstream too fast and is not absorbedinto the ground.

Potential negative impacts are likely to occur in the context o f the construction of water management
schemes. In addition, groundwater over-abstraction may occur in the absence of effective planning,
location, and sound construction o f pastoral wells. It was reported that in some areas the water table has
dropped, thus requiringthe construction o f deeper wells - 62 m insome cases -making it very difficult for
the population to draw water for their livestock.

At the moment, negative environmental impacts are experienced due to the malfunctioning of small dams.
Site visits to representative dams inthe Bongor area revealed that about 25% o f the existing dams were in
goodsatisfactory condition, while the remainder was in a state o f disrepair. The goodsatisfactory dams
represented those that are serving the purpose for which they were built; they are operational and will
function adequately and satisfactorily duringthe next wet season.




                                                     - 78 -

Dams that are in disrepair are those that are in danger of failing and not servingthe purpose for which they
were built. They have been neglected over the years and face the real risk o f being overtopped during the
next wet season, threatening the adjacent agricultural lands, livestock, andcommunities.

    Other infrastructure: Environmental impacts due to the construction o f storage infrastructure,
    processing units, and rural veterinary facilities are likely to be minimal (noise, dust, construction
    wastes, traffic safety).

    Construction materials: There will be a need for construction materials to build processing units,
    storage infrastructure, and rural veterinary facilities as well as to construct new small dams and to
    rehabilitate existing ones. As regards small dams, for example, the availability o f suitable construction
    material (roller compacted concrete, sands and gravel dredged from the river channels, pitching stone,
    riprap) i s an important part o f small dam site investigations. It may be necessary to use borrow pits as
    sources o f construction materials which might have negative environmental impacts such as loss o f
    flora and fauna, and soil erosion.

    Agricultural production increases: There is concern that the benefits o f agricultural production
    increases might not be fully realized in the absence o f effective pest management. Thus, to increase
    agricultural production, producer organizations may increase the use o f and reliance on chemical
    pesticides. This might lead to potential environmental impacts such as the destruction o f pollinators o f
    crop plants leading to poor crop yields; development o f pest resistance to pesticides, encouraging
    further increasesinthe use of chemical pesticides; contamination of soil and water bodies, and loss o f
    biodiversity inthe environment, particularly o f aquatic nontarget species.

Pests and disease attacks are widespread with regard to cereals, cowpeas, and vegetables which suffer
heavy losses. For example, cereals are attacked by pests and diseases that damage the leaves, stems, and
roots o f cereals, causing crop losses o f up to 50%; in severe cases such as armyworm infestation, losses o f
about 80% are experienced. Vegetable crops (onions, garlic, cabbage, carrots, aubergine, lettuce, tomatoes,
cucumber, sweet potato and okra) are attacked by a wide range o f insect pests such as aphids, the diamond
black moth, white flies, and cotton stainers. In addition to physical damage, aphids andwhite flies transmit
virus diseases. Parasitic nematodes inthe soil are major problems intomato production.

Current pest management activities in Chad are conducted mainly by the Crop Protection Service. Crop
protection methods promoted by its technicians are based on FA0 recommendations, and the use o f
botanical pesticides such as neem seed powder and neem leaf extracts for pest management i s also strongly
promotedinfarmer training.

The Crop Protection Service staff involved in advising farmers onpest management seriously lack facilities
and operating funds to carry out their assignments successfully. Furthermore, the staff need additional
training on new approaches in participatory integrated pest management techniques and training
methodologies to enable them to provide superior integrated pest management advice to farmers.


0   Pastoral Wells: Potential environmental impacts may include over-abstraction o f ground water
    resources.




                                                      - 79 -

Social impacts

The above project activities are expected to have positive social impacts such as additional employment
opportunities; increasedorganizational capacity o f the local agencies and producer organizations involved;
and improved access to investment opportunities. At the same time, the construction o f small-scale water
management schemes, other infrastructure, and increased agricultural production are llkely to exacerbate
health problems such as malaria, schistosomiasis and increasethe potential for pesticide poisoning; in some
instances, landacquisition may be involved.

    Small-scale water management schemes: The construction o f new embankment dams or the
    reconstruction of existing small dams; the construction of irrigation networks as well as the
    construction of water retention ponds may involve potential land acquisition to accommodate these
    structures. Embankment dams, for example, will require landspace so that they can be set back from
    the river to prevent flooding. New irrigation schemes will require land and its clearing o f current
    vegetation to allow for the production of crops such as rice. Duringa field visit to Bongor, it became
    clear that some degree o f land acquisition will occur. Dependingon the particular circumstances, land
    acquisition may lead to (i)   relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) o f assets or access to assets; and (iii)
                                                                      loss
    loss o f income sources or means o f livelihood, whether or not the affected persons must move to
    another location.

    Other infrastructure: The construction o f storage infrastructure, processing units, and rural veterinary
    facilities is likely to cause some increase in construction traffic, dust, and noise which will have
    temporary effects on the surrounding population, and may involve some land acquisition to
    accommodate such structures.

    Constructionmaterials: It is not known at this time whether existing borrow pits canbe usedto obtain
    construction materials or whether new ones will have to be opened. Ifthe latter shouldbe the case, land
    acquisition may be involved, thus potentially affecting the population living in the area. The transport
    o f construction materials i s also likely to cause traffic safety concems.

    Agricultural production increases: The project's aim to increase agricultural production could
    contribute to an increase in water-bome diseases and pesticide poisoning. Given that pesticide dealers
    are not licensed, protective gear is not readily available, andregular farmer training inthe safe handling
    anduse ofpesticides is very limited, the increaseduse of pesticides without appropriate training could
    leadto pesticide poisoning.

Data on pesticide poisoning and environmental contamination in Chad i s very difficult to obtain because
there i s no regularmonitoring system for assessingthe risks associated with pesticide use. Cotton farmers
are reported to complain about health problems due to exposure to Cyperal P 720 EC sprayed on cotton.
Most farmers cannot afford protective gear and therefore are always exposed to pesticide poisoning while
spraying. The rural health clinics in the cotton growing areas are unable to offer assistance because they
lack the knowledge and resources to deal with this problem.

During a field visit to some producer organizations in the Bongor area, farmers cultivating vegetables
confirmed that they depend on chemical pesticides for pest control, using Cyperal P 720 EC supplied by
COTONTCHAD to protect their vegetable crops from pest damage. It was also learned that farmers
purchase other pesticides from salesmen who conduct illegal sales o f products obtained from Cameroon
and Nigeria.


                                                      - 80 -

Increases in water-related diseases such as malaria and schistosomiasis due to the increase in small-scale
water management schemes may occur. Malaria is a life-threatening parasitic disease transmitted by
mosquitoes. Malaria is found throughout the tropical and sub-tropical regions o f the world and causes more
than300 million acute illnesses and at least one million deaths annually. 90% of the deaths due to malaria
occur inAfrica, south o f the Sahara mostly among young children. Many children who survive an episode
o f severe malaria may suffer from leaming impairments or brain damage. In Chad, malaria occurs in the
soudanian and parts o f the sahelian zones; these are also the zones where most o f the proposed project
activities will take place.

Among the human parasitic diseases, schistosomiasis ranks second behind malaria in terms o f
socio-economic and public health importance intropical and subtropical areas. The major forms o f human
schistosomiasis are caused by five species o f water-bome flatworm, or blood flukes, called schistosomes
which enter the body through contact with infested surface water, mainly among people engaged in
agriculture and fishing. The WHO International Agency for Research on Cancer has confirmed that in
countries where urinary schistosomiasis i s endemic, it causes a specific type o f bladder cancer. In some
areas o f Africa, the incidence o f bladder cancer linkedwith schistosomiasis i s 32 times higher than that o f
simple bladder cancer inthe USA.

0   Pastoral Wells: Potential social impacts may include conflicts over access to water for cattle.

11.Descriptionof mitigationmeasures

In light of Chad's precarious environmental conditions, the EA report for the proposed project
recommended that (i)      all subprojects be subject to environmental assessment in view o f their potential
cumulative impacts on the environment and the population; and (ii)     the producer organizations - with the
assistance o f facilitators and service providers -- be responsible for all aspects o f subproject preparation
and implementation, including their environmental and social aspects. To guide them, the producer
organizations will be able to use the following tools:

(a) EnvironmentalManagementFramework

While Chad has an environmental law No. 14PW98 defining             the general principles o f environmental
protection, which include the requirement that environmental impact assessments of proposed investments
be carried out, there is no specific environmental legislation that outlines environmental assessment
procedures and institutional responsibilities in this regard. Therefore, the proposed project will follow the
environmental assessment process for subprojects that is consistent with the Bank's OP 4.01
Environmental Assessment.

The producer organizations - with the assistance o f facilitators and service providers -- will be responsible
for the environmental screening and implementation of simple mitigation measures. To strengthen their
capacity, the proposed environmental assessment process for subprojects provides the following tools: (i)    a
screening list; (ii) guidance regarding the assignment o f environmental categories to subprojects; (iii)   an
environmental checklist designed to prepare mitigation measures to address minor environmental impacts;
(iv) procedures for subprojects requiringenvironmental assessment; (v) environmental guidelines; and (vi)
a summary of the World Bank's safeguard policies. These tools will be included in the Project
Implementation Manual.
Inthe context of its overall responsibilities, the Departmental Selection Committee will be responsible for
arranging for environmental impact assessments, reviewing and clearing environmental assessment reports,


                                                      - 81 -

including social assessments and resettlement plans, as required. Thus, through its Technical Secretariatthe
Departmental Selection Committee will assist the producer organizations in conducting the necessary
environmental assessmentsby:


(a)      hiringqualified environmentalassessment specialiststo carry out the assessments as required;
(b)      ensuring that apublic consultationprocess is inplace duringthe environmental assessmentof
         subprojects;
(c)      hiring qualified peer reviewers to review andclear the environmental assessmentreportsas well as
         environmental screeningresults o f subprojects;
(d)      hiringqualified serviceproviders to assistthe producer organizations inthe implementation of
         mitigationmeasures;
(e)      hiringqualified serviceproviders to carry out social assessments andto prepare resettlementplans
         as identifiedduringthe environmental assessment;
(f)      disseminating the results o fthe environmental and social assessments to the public.

(b)ResettlementPolicyFramework

This document outlines the objectives and principles to be applied during project implementation in the
event that land acquisition takes place. The producer organizations --with the assistance of facilitators and
qualified service providers --will be able to decide whether to proceed with a subproject that requires land
acquisition and related compensation which would have to be financed from the subproject under
consideration. If the producer organizations decide to proceed with the subproject involving land
acquisition, a social assessment and a resettlement action plan will have to be prepared as outlined in the
resettlement policy framework. These documents will be subsequently submitted to the Departmental
Selection Committee for review and approval. A representative o f the Ministry o f Environment will be
included as a member o f the Departmental Selection Committee to ensure effective oversight over the
implementation o f the resettlement action plans.

(c) DamSafetyAnalysis

To ensure that existing and new small dams are maintained regularly, the dam safety analysis report
proposes, among other things, the establishment o f a Dam Unit at the level o f the Ministry o f Agriculture.
The responsibilities o f this unit are outlined inAnnex 3 of the EA report. Responsibilities would include (i)
advising producer organizations on the management o f new and existing small dams; (ii)          supervising the
producer     organizations    in the      development,    update,   coordination     and    implementation    o f
operations/maintenance/monitoring/environmentalmanagement plans; (iii)          providing training and technical
assistance to producer organizations to develop their capacity to execute their responsibilities under the
proposed project; (iv) registration o f engineers and consulting firms; and (v) advising the Government o f
Chad on issues involving legislation.

The document also outlines technically sound small dam construction, covering the pre-design stage, site
investigation; soil investigation; soil classification; basic physical soil parameters; hydrology investigation;
design stage; embankment slopes; foundations; progressive collapse; construction, contract supervision;
and operations.




                                                       - 82 -

(d) Pastoralwells

The provision o f pastoral wells - one well every 15 km -- will occur under the guidance o f the Direction
Hydraulique. The Direction has a data base which shows the geographic location o f all water points inthe
country, including their depths, the date of installation, and maintenance dates. The Directiondelegatesthe
conduct o f environmental impact studies and the implementation o f water points and pastoral wells to
firms. Potential issues related to access to pastoral wells will be addressed under the Local Development
Project which i s being preparedinparallelwith this project.

(e) Pest Management Plan (PMP)

This document will guide the producer organizations in the adoption o f integrated pest management
practices and the rational use o f pesticides. The PMP has been prepared in the context o f Chad's
institutional framework for pest management. While the proposed project will not support this institutional
structure, the project's Producer Organizations Community IPM Action Committees will benefit from the
policy coordination of the Comite Nationale de Coordination de Lutte Integree Contre Ennemies des
Cultures.

The pest management planrecommends that the proposed project support training in safe and effective use
of pesticides in the context of integrated pest management as well as public awareness of the risks o f
pesticide overuse and misuse to human health and the environment. These training activities, therefore,
constitute a major component o f the pest management plan. Training activities include: (i)   study tours for
representatives o f selected producer organizations and Crop Protection Service/ONDR to West African
countries - Senegal, Mali, Burkina Faso        -  where integrated pest management programs have been
successful; (ii)training o f trainers to provide practical field exposure o f the 50 Crop Protection
Service/ONDR extension agents to the modem concepts and methods o f integrated pest management; (iii)
training o f producer organizations in pesticides management; and (iv) supporting integrated pest
management research and development through farmer participatory integrated pest management research
to be funded from competitive research grants applied for by the producer organizations.

At the project level, institutionalarrangements necessaryfor successfulimplementationofthe PMP include
(i) establishmentofCommunityIntegratedPestManagementCommitteesbytheproducerorganizations
   the
to enable them to discuss general pest problems, make decisions concerning integrated pest management
programs, and to facilitate integrated pest management networks within and between producer
organizations; and (ii) the inclusion o f IntegratedPest Management Specialists among the Peer Reviewers
to be hired by the Departmental Selection Committee; these specialists will be called upon to conduct
technical reviews o f integrated pest management proposals submitted for funding through the competitive
research grants scheme support under the proposed project.

Inan effort to address potential increases inmalaria and schistosomiasis, the PMP recommends (i)         that
surveillance teams be set up in villages around the small dams and irrigation sites to conduct regular
surveys on the incidence of malaria and other water-bome diseases; (ii)            training in environmental
management for the control o f water-borne diseases, including malaria and schistosomiasis; (iii)
collaboration with the Ministry o f Health's national malaria program on the use o f impregnated bed nets
for mosquito control and the management o f the spread of malaria; and (iv) training o f village communities
inthe re-impregnationofbednets with pesticides, and safetyprecautions.




                                                      - 83 -

The proposedproject may also consider collaboration with the World Bank's Second Population and AIDS
Project (FY2001) in coordinating the use o f impregnated bed-nets for mosquito control. The Second
Population and AIDS Project includes a social marketing program to sell impregnated bed nets which do
not require impregnation for five to eight years, thereby precluding the need for re-impregnation and the
disposal o f chemicals.

(f) Construction materials

Inan effort to address the environmentalimpacts, the project will support the revegetationofborrow pits
andenvironmental subprojects, for example, stemmingthe advance of sanddunes.

III.Descriptionofthepotentialenvironmentalandsocialimpactsofthemitigationmeasures

(a) EnvironmentalAssessment Process

 As the producer organizations will apply the proposed environmental assessment process - initially with
the assistance o f facilitators and qualified service providers as appropriate--, over time, they will develop
the capacity to screentheir subprojects for environmental and social impacts, and to prepare and implement
simple environmentalmitigationmeasuresas required.

Furthermore, the producer organizations will be aware of the potential environmental and social
implications o f their subprojects at the early stage o f identification, and support from the Departmental
Selection Committee will allow them to implement more complex subprojects in an environmentally and
socially sustainable manner. They will be able to decide early on whether or not to proceed with the
subproject. Thus, the environmental assessment process will enable the producer organizations to make
informeddevelopment decisions.

The involvement o f environmental and social assessment specialists as well as integratedpest management
specialists as peer reviewers will ensure that all subprojects are reviewed and cleared independently, and
that all subprojects will benefit from professional advice and are environmentally sustainable in the
long-run. This will be important given Chad's environmental constraints.

@) Resettlement Policy Framework

This framework will serve as a guide for producer organizations as to how to assess and mitigate the
potential social impacts o f their subprojects, and to make informed decisions as to whether or not to
proceed with their implementation in light o f the potential social impacts identified during the
environmental screening process. Thus, individuals and groups inthe project area will not experience losses
as a result o f development activities supported by the proposed project.

(c) Dam Safety

The training members o f the producer organizations inthe proper maintenance and operation o f small dams
will ensure dam safety inthe long-term. As the dams are safe, there will be no concems over loss of lives,
cattle andcrops due to floods.




                                                      - 84 -

(d) PestManagement

The benefits to be derived from improved integrated pest managementwill manifest themselves inimproved
access to integrated pest management training; a reduction in crop losses due to pest attacks; increased
farm revenues due to the adoption o f integrated pest management practices compared to conventional
practices; and improved health among farmers due to integrated vector management. The effective use o f
impregnated bed-nets is expected to lead to improved health status o f farmers and minimize losses in
productive labor. Trials o f insecticide-treated mosquito nets (ITNs) in the 1980's and 1990'~~ showed that
ITNsreduced deaths inyoung children by an averageo f20%.

(e) PastoralWells

While the proposed project i s addressing the need for water supply for cattle in the immediate term, the
Local Development Project will address long-term issues related to access to pastoral wells by herders.

(f)Constructionmaterials

The revegetation o f borrow pits and the implementation of environmental subprojects will contribute to
environmental improvements inthe long run.

                                           MONITORINGPLAN

IV. Descriptionofthe technicaldetailsof the monitoringmeasures

(a) Environmentalscreening

The facilitators will be responsible for monitoring the environmental screening process, including the
preparation o f simple mitigation measures, carried out by the producer organizations. The facilitators can
be qualifiedNGOs, individual consultants, or public agencies; they will be recruitedby the URGP.

(b)Environmentalassessmentsofsubprojects

Through its Technical Secretariat the Departmental Selection Committee will be responsible for the
monitoring o f (i) environmental assessment work to be carried out by service providers; (ii) work o f
                  the                                                                            the
the peer reviewers; and (iii) overseeing the implementation o f resettlement action plans. The environmental
monitoring work will be done by Technical Secretariat staff, while the implementation o f resettlement
action plans will be monitored by the representative o f the Ministry o f Environment at the Departmental
Selection Committee.

(c) DamSafety

The dam unit will assist the producer organizations in the preparation o f an operational policy to
encompass the monitoring, maintenance and a disaster response plan. The most critical issues are reliability
and easy access when gathering and storing information. For details please refer to Annex 3 o f the EA
report.




                                                    - 85 -

(d) IntegratedPest Management

Activities requiring regular follow-up during supervision missions include, for example, capacity building
with regard to integrated pest management; the number of producer organizations who have designated
members to attend integrated pest management training; and the number o f farmers who have adopted an
integrated pest management strategy to protect their agricultural production. For details please refer to
Annex 4 o f the EA report.

(e) Monitoring Indicators

To ensure that the mitigationmeasures are implemented effectively, the following monitoring indicators are
proposed; they will be monitored inthe context o f ASPOP's monitoring and evaluation system.

e   Environmental assessment:

        Number o f subprojects screenedby producer organizations with the assistance o f facilitators
        Number o f environmental assessments carried out by service providers
        Number o f subprojectsscreenedby peer reviewers

e   Dam Safety:

        Number o fproducer organizations that have beentrained indam safety measures
        Number ofinspectionsofflood dams
        Numbers o frepairs recorded inthe log book
        Maintenance o f warning system (control siren)

e   Integrated Pest Management:

        Existence o fNational Pest Management Policies and Strategies
        Existence ofpesticide legislation, registration, and control scheme
        Production indicators: increasesinincomes
        Cost-benefits o f applying integratedpest management practices comparedto farmers' conventional

        practices
        Number and % of families usingimpregnatedbednets for mosquito control

e   ResettlementPolicy Framework:

        Number o f persons affected and resettled due to the proposedproject
        Number o f persons affected and compensated due to the proposed project (infrastmcture, trees,
other assets)

                            CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING

In order to assist the producer organizations in strengthening their environmental assessment capacity, it
will be necessaryto recruit qualified service providers to be fundedunder component 2 "Capacity Building
for Agricultural Services." A breakdowno f the costs o f service providers i s given below.




                                                     - 86 -

(a) Producer Organizations

The Unites Inter-RCgionales de Gestion des Project (UIRGP) will recruit qualified service providers as
facilitators to assist producers with (i)environmental screening; and (ii)the preparation of simple
environmental mitigation measures. The costs for these activities will be included in the UIRGP's budget
for assistance to the producer organizations.

(b)DepartmentalSelection Committee

The Departmental Selection Committee will recruit service providers to assist it in hlfilling its
responsibilities. Towards this end, Departmental Selection Committee will require a budget that will enable
it to recruit qualified service providers to carry out environmental assessments, environmental review, to
advise on integratedpest management issues, and to prepare resettlement action plans as needed. The costs
to be incurred will be as follows:

e   Environmental assessment of subprojects. As recommended, environmental assessments (EA) will be
     carried out for all subprojects as needed. The cost of individual subprojects has been limited to
     US$50,000. An average cost o f US$30,000 per subproject has been used as a basis for calculatingthe
     costs o f carrying out EAs. It is estimated that about 1% o f the costs for water management subprojects
     will be required to carry out EA, amounting to US$300.00 per EA, totaling US$508,500 to carry out
     EAs for 1,695 water management subprojects. It is estimated that about 0.5% o f the costs of other
     infrastructure subprojects (storage infrastructure, processing units, rural veterinary facilities, soil
     conservation infrastructure) will be required to carry out EAs for these subprojects, amounting to
     US$150.00 per EA, totaling US$233,250 to carry out 1,555 EAs for other infrastructure subprojects.

0        Total cost for carrying out EA: US$741,750

e   Peer Reviewers. Four peer reviewers would be recruitedat a rate o f US$35.00 per day to review 3,250
     subproject EAs, totaling US$20,000.

0        Total costs for peer reviewers: US$20,000

e   Resettlement Action Plans. The preparation o f resettlement action plans and social assessments will
     be carried out by qualified service providers. Provisions will be made under the project to support this
     work. It is estimated that 15% o f subprojects or 480, may require resettlement action plans; that it
     takes about 10 days to prepare a resettlement action planand related studies; at a rate o f US$35.00per
     day, the preparationo f 480 resettlement plans will cost US$168,000.

0        Total costs for Resettlement Action Plans: US$168,000

e   Dam Safety: The proposed project will make provisions for the training o f seven civil engineers. This
     will involve: The recruitment o f a dam specialist who will train these seven civil engineers (6 for the
     IRPCMU and 1 for the NPCMU), who in turn will train the producer organizations over time. It is
     estimated that the dam Specialistwill cost US$25,000; per diem for the civil engineers while providing
     training to the producer organizations will amount to US$15,000. Provisions for the design and
     supervision o f small dam construction. It i s assumed that it will take about 8 days to design a small


                                                      -87 -

  dam and supervise its construction; if 250 dams are designedand supervised during construction, at a
  rate o f US$35.00 per day, the total costs for this activity amount to US$70,000. Provision for the
  training of producer organizations to enable them to apply dam safety measures; total cost is estimated
  at US$70,000.

0      Total costs for Dam Safety: US$180,000

  Integrated Pest Management: Special Training of integrated pest management trainers will be
  conducted to buildIPMtraining capacity with the Crop Protection Service andONDR, so that they can
  effectively train the producer organizations and facilitate adoption of integrated pest management
  practices for agricultural production. Detailed cost estimates can be found in the pest management
  plan.

0      Total costs for integrated pest management plan: US$588,000

  Use of construction material: It is planned to rehabilitate borrow pits used by the project
  (US$lOO,OOO) and to support environmental subprojects designed to slow down the advance o f sand
  dunes (US$lSO,OOO).

0      Total costs for rehabilitation activities: US$250,000

0 Environmental training: An environmental training program is proposed to strengthen the capacities
  o f producer organizations and staff located at the regional offices o f the Ministry of Environment in
  this regard($375,000).

0      Total costs for environmental training: US$375,000




                                                  - 88 -

                                          EnvironmentalManagementPlan
                                                    Summary Table




     Project                Mitigation          Implementing         Monitoring     Timing         Cost
    activities               measures                Agency         Responsibility              Estimates

                   I                        I                                      I
                                              ProductiveInvestmi Its
Identification o f   Env. Screening,         Producer             Depart. Select.   Ongoing   US$741,750
environmental        categorization, env.    organizations/       ComJTech.
andsocial            work                    Facilitators         Secretariat
impacts
Review and           Recruitment o f         Depart. Selec.      Min.of             Ongoing   us$20,000
clearance o f EA     expertdpeer reviewers   Comm./Tech. Secr.    Env.&Water
reports
Constructionand      As recommended          Depart. Selec.      Min.of             Ongoing   Incl. inproject
rehabilitation                               Comm./Tech. Secr.    Env.&Water
activities
Construction of      Preparationof           Depart. Selec.       Min.ofEnv.&       Periodic  US$168,000
hydro-               resettlement action     Comm./Tech.          Water
agricultural         plans                   Secr.../UIRGP/
infrastructure,                              UNCGP
small dams
       ~.~~~-      I
Use of              1Use of insecticide-     PNLAP/Facilitators   UNCGP/UIRCGP/     Ongoing   US$50,000
construction         treated bednets                              Min.ofHealth
material
                     Recruitmentof service   Producer             UIRRCGP/Cellule   Ongoing   US$70,000
                                             Organizations/       des
                                             Facilitators         diguedbarragesl
                                                                  Min.ofAgriculture
Pastoral wells       Environmental sub-      Producer             UIRRCGP/DPFLC     Ongoing   US$150,000
                     projects to stem sand   organizations/       D/Minof
                     dune advancement etc.   FacilitatorsPrivate  Env.&Water
                                             Service Providers



                     Revegetation of borrow  Producer             UIRRCGPDIPFLC     Ongoing   us$loo,ooo
                     pits (production of     organizations/       D/Min.ofEnv.&
                     plants, reforestation   FacilitatordPrivate  Water
                     etc.)                   Service Providers



                     Place equipment         Private Service      Direction         Ongoing   Incl. inproject
                     appropriately           Providers            Hydraulique




                                                   - 89 -

         Project            Mitigation         Implementing       Monitoring     Timing          cost
        activities          measures              Agency        Responsibility                 Estimates
                                                                                                   1/
   Capacity
   Building
   Strengthen       EnvironmentalTraining Private Service      Min.ofEnv. &     Quarterly     US$375,000
   capacitiesofPOs  Program                 Providers          Water
   andregional staff
   o f the Min.of
   Env. & Water
   IntegratedPest   IPM - Training          Crop Protection    Crop Protection  Ongoing       US$453,000
   Management        to develop skills inIPM Service, producer Service
                     practices-andpublic     organizations     UNCGP,UIRCGP/
                     awareness inthe safe                      Min.of
                     and effectiveuse of                       Environment
                     pesticides

                     IPMNetworkingfor        Crop Protection   UNCGPAJIRRGPI    Ongoing       US$60,000
                     exchangeof IPM          Service           Min.ofEnv. &
                     knowledgeand                              Water
                     information
   Strengthen        Public Awareness on     Crop Protection   Crop Protection  Ongoing       US$25,000
   capacity ofthe    IPM                     Service           Service/
   Damunit at the                                              UIRCGPMin. of
   Min.ofAgric.                                                Env. &Water

                     Training for 7 Civil    Private Service   Min. of Agric.   Project start US$40,000
                     Engineers               Providers


                     Training for POs        Private Service   DamUnit          Quarterly     USS70,OOO
                                             Providers
   PastoralWells     Proper location         Service Providers Dir. Hydraulique Ongoing

                                                                                TOTAL         US$2,322,750




I/Thecostsoftheenvironmentalmanagementplanhavebeenincorporatedintotheprojectcosts.




                                                - 90 -

       Additional Annex 13: Examplesof Applied Competitive ResearchActivities
              CHAD: Agricultural Servicesand Producer OrganizationsProject

(i)Introduction o f cassavaresistant to mosaic
         Linksto other country research
         DemonstratiodTesting plots
         Dissemination o f material

(ii)Introduction o f IntegratedPestManagement techniques
         Test the standardapproachesusedin commercial/fanner cottonproduction inneighboring
countries.

(iii)Development o f soil fertility techniques for cotton

(iv) Introduction & testingof drought resistant groundnut varieties from neighboringcountries

(v) Introduction, screening & testing ofhigh-yieldingrice varieties underirrigation conditions

(vi) Introduction &promotionof storagetechniques for onions

(vii) Promotion ofnew horticulturalcrops such as tomatoes, potatoes, sweet potatoes

(viii) Soil fertility and water management.




                                                       -91 -

            Additional Annex 14: Comprehensive Development Framework
           CHAD: Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project

To be completed




                                         - 92 -

MAP SECTION


