ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Froc ol Poverty
IfoShop
T1}. 'A NU  K
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/20/2002                              25151
Section I - Basic Information                               November 20, 2002
A. Basic Pro ect Data
Country: CHAD                                    Project ID: P074266
Project: Agricultural Services and Producers     Task Team Leader: Ousmane Seck
Organizations Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 1, 2002    IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: July 13, 2003                     IDA Amount ($m): 18.65
Managing Unit: AFTR2                             Sector: Agricultural extension and research (60%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Irrigation & drainage (30%); Agricultural marketing
Status: Lending                                  and trade (10%)
Theme: Rural markets (P); Rural non-farm income
generation (S); Technology diffusion (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the proposed Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project
(ASPOP) is to increase agricultural productivity and rural income while preserving the natural resource
base.
The proposed project would support this objective by financing productivity-raising interventions and
promoting the institutional and technical capacities of producer organizations, government institutions,
and private-sector operators and groups related to rural development.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project has three components and several closely linked subcomponents. The components
are as follows:
1.     Promotion of sustainable growth in agricultural production.
2.     Capacity building for agricultural services.
3.     Project administration and monitoring.
1.1    Promotion of Sustainable Growth in Agricultural Production (US$ 31. 41 million). Under
this component, the project would finance, as subprojects, (a) productive investments; (b) support for
producer organizations; (c) competitive research grants; (d) agricultural extension activities; and (e)
studies on project-related topics.



2
ISDS
(a)    Productive investments. This subcomponent would support income-generating investments
proposed by producer organizations on a demand-driven principle. The support would be given as grants
to reduce investment costs with the purpose of promoting production, processing, and marketing of farm
and livestock products. The beneficiaries of the grants would be legal entities. Women's groups and
associations would receive special preference; at least 40 percent of the subprojects would be run by
women in a sustainable manner. Beneficiaries would be required to make an "up-front contribution" that
would amount to at least 20 percent of "subproject" cost; moreover, at least one half of this contribution
would have to be in cash.
The subcomponent would finance the following three types of productive investments and support
services needed to identify, prepare, and implement subprojects:
*      Productive infrastructure facilities such as construction and management of small-scale water
management schemes; development of infrastructures to conserve soil and water resources; and
establishment of storage and rural veterinary facilities. Also other infrastructure investments would be
eligible because the facility aims at responding to demand expressed by producer organizations.
*      Agricultural development activities such as the improvement of existing farming systems and the
development of conservation farming techniques; the establishment of seed and plant nurseries; the
promotion of domestic and export agriculture; the transformation and marketing of farm products; the
diversification of crop and animal species; and support services. Because the project would not finance
such important requirements in rural areas as farm equipment and inputs, collaboration arrangements
between ASPOP and the initiative for the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) for providing
mechanized farming equipment and between ASPOP and microfinance institutions for financing farm
inputs shall be finalized before the start of the project.
Off-farm productive activities in rural areas (such as developing handicraft production and
women's weaving rings, production of building materials, establishing repair shops, and promoting local
blacksmithing).
(b)    Support to producer organizations. This subcomponent would finance, on a demand-driven basis,
special activities to strengthen producer organizations in rural areas. Eligible activities would include the
following:
Enhanced participation of POs in the formulation of local development plans, development of
basic accounting and procurement methods, and implementation and monitoring of subprojects. Overall
implementation of project activities would happen through (i) workshops on participatory approaches,
use of revolving funds, business concepts, accountability, and group business leadership; (ii) consultation
forums, interchanges among POs, and study tours both in-country and abroad; (iii) promotion of the
representation functions of POs in state and district steering committees, production organizations, and
private sector, NGO, and donor organizations, allowing PO representatives to voice their views clearly
and participate effectively in decision making.
Development of a rural communication system (civil works, equipment, and training for "radio
rurale" and the development and distribution of newsletters to be managed by POs).
(c)    Competitive Research Grant Program (CRGP). The program would support short-term (2 to 3
years) applied research aimed at finding solutions for constraints to the productive investments under
subcomponent (a), including activities to develop better links between agribusinesses and small farmers.
(d)    Agricultural extension program. This subcomponent would mainly support extension and



3
ISDS
training services to POs. Subprojects under this subcomponent would either be those directly required
for the implementation of the productive investments under subcomponent (a), or they would be
small-scale projects that directly support promotion agricultural development.
(e)    Project-related studies. The project would finance studies to deal with the constraints and
opportunities that arise from demand-driven subprojects. In particular, these studies could relate to (i)
identifying crop and livestock development opportunities, identifying and using inputs, and identifying
agricultural technology needs for specific regions or departments, or to (ii) assessing the need for
proposed agricultural service centers, design of their institutional set-up and procedural arrangements,
and development of mechanisms to ensure their sustainability.
1.2    Capacity Building for Agricultural Services (US$5.64 million). In the situation in Chad,
special attention needs to be paid to capacity building in the agricultural sector. Under this component,
the project would finance (a) the development and strengthening of public service in ministries linked
directly to rural development and (b) support development of private-sector agricultural services.
(a)    Public service development. This subcomponent would focus on improving the capacities of
technical ministries directly linked to rural development at the national and decentralized levels and on
implementing a thematic research program to enable the project and development partners to deal with
constraints and priorities identified by stakeholders in rural development. In particular, project funds
would be available for the following:
Capacity building to strengthen the technical ministries and the rural development institutions
charged with the formulating rural policies, programs, and associated public investments. The project
would (i) help the technical ministries to better monitor and evaluate rural sector activities, in close
collaboration with HIPC initiatives and the macro-economic, regulatory and fiscal framework for
improving the rural sector database recently developed by the "Cellule permanente;" (ii) help the
statistical and monitoring units of rural ministries to collect, analyze and disseminate statistical
information, and coordinate the statistical and monitoring functions between these ministries; (iii) help
develop a rural market information system that would ensure that POs and their partners have adequate
timely information; and (iv) help strengthen the environmental management capacities of rural ministries
to implement proposed measures to mitigate the potential negative effects of project investments on
natural resources in the agricultural sector.
Thematic research program aimed at financing studies on agricultural research activities
identified as priorities by the Government, POs, and the private sector and aimed at finding solutions for
thematic and long-term constraints to intensification, diversification and sustainability of the agricultural
production systems. Evidence that the proposed thematic research program has been adopted would be a
condition for negotiations.
(b)    Private-Sector Development Under this subcomponent, the project would make financial and
technical assistance available to:
Help rural private services (NGOs, consulting firms) develop improved management,
decision-making, business, and investment skills in producer organizations.
Strengthen and further develop Producer Services and Management Centers (PSMCs). The
PSMCs are technical units that could be availed by POs. These centres would offer them a range of
services aimed at helping small-scale producers and rural entrepreneurs in such tasks as (i) assessment of
subproject feasibility; (ii) development of business plans; (iii) identification and structuring of financial
resources; (iv) identification of markets and assistance in accessing them; (v) facilitation of ex-post



4
ISDS
agricultural activities such as post-harvest product-processing and technology transfer; and (vi)
identification of service providers capable to carry out subproject preparation and implementation. In
order to carry out these tasks, each PSMC should have at least one adviser and/or manager selected and
recruited by the local POs. If necessary, the project would contribute to the cost of construction or
refurbishment of an office using the same assistance principles as for productive investments. POs would
take over the operating costs of their PSMC gradually: during the fist year after the establishment of an
PSMC, POs would pay 50 percent of the operating costs; during the second year 75 percent; and during
the third year 100 percent. It is estimated that at least one PSMC in each district would be active at the
end of the project.
Foster the privatization of agricultural services, including veterinary services.
1.3    Project Administration and Monitoring (US$4.31 million). This component would support (a)
the administration and management of the project and (b) the monitoring and evaluation of project
activities. The project would fully finance the establishment and operation of a Project Coordinating and
Monitoring Unit (PCMU). This unit would contain, besides a Project Director and key financial staff, a
monitoring and evaluation support section at the central level (PCMU), with branches in six district
groups (Inter-District Coordination and Management Units--IPCMUs). The project would also finance
the costs of a Technical Committee supervising project activities.
1.4. Indicative Project Cost
Estimated Total Cost: US$ million 41.36 (US$ million 18.65 to be financed by IDA)
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will cover primarily the sahelian and soudanian zones of the country. A Project Coordination
and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) would be established, at the national and district level, and would be
responsible for project implementation under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. Project
implementation would be carried out in close collaboration with the three line sectoral ministries
(Agriculture, Livestock and Environment).
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The project has been classified as a B due to the potential environmental and social impacts of
the component pertaining to the "Promotion of Sustainable Growth in Agricultural Production".
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   0 Yes C No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      C Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                0 Yes C No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  . Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      ^ Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               * Yes   No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                0 Yes . No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          0 Yes C No



5
ISDS
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        | ^ Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please.fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Safeguard issues relate to the environmental and social impacts of increased agricultural
production which will require, among other things, the construction/rehabilitation of small-scale
water management schemes such as small dams (dykes), small irrigation and drainage work,
pastoral wells, hydro-agricultural retention pools and construction materials; as well as the
establishment of small store systems, seed and plant nurseries, and rural veterinary facilities, and
the adoption of integrated pest management approaches.
Potential impacts include land acqusition (to accommodate the afore-mentioned structures);
pesticide poisoning (due to inappropriate use of pesticides and lack of integrated pest
management capacity); and an increase in water-related diseases such as malaria and
schistosomiasis (due to increased availability of water). As the project will use water from the
Logone and Chari Rivers, the riparian countries will have to be notified regarding the proposed
project activities.
Il.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Potential cumulative impacts include water and soil pollution, soil erosion, and negative public
health impacts due to pesticide poisoning and an increase in water-related diseases.
II.D.Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
In light of the proposed mitigation measures and project support for the development of soil and
water conservation measures, the long term impacts of the project are expected to be positive.
Hl.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
A discussion of alternatives was not necessary since the project's objectives were designed in
light of the achievements and lessons learned from previous operations.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Borrower made the following arrangements to address safeguard issues:
* An environmental analysis (EA) and an Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP) have been
prepared to address potential environmental impacts during project implementation.
* An Environmental Management Framework (EMF) has been prepared to enable producers



6
ISDS
organizations to assess and manage the potential environmental and social impacts of their
sub-projects at the planning stage.
* A Dam Safety Analysis which includes generic dam safety measures and training proposals
has been prepared for the purpose of enabling producers organizations to manage the safety
of their small dams.
* An Integrated Pest Management Plan has been prepared to ensure that producers
organizations apply appropriate pest management approaches under their sub-projects.
* A Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has been prepared to address the potential social
impacts of project activities.
* Letters of Notification to the riparian countries (Niger, Nigeria, Cameroon, Central African
Republic) will be sent by the World Bank, copied to the Lake Chad Basin Commission.
IL.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders of the project will be the producers organizations who will be responsible
for the identification and implementation of their sub-projects. To build up their capacity in this
regard, they will have access to qualified facilitators and private service providers who will assist
them at the various stages of sub-project management. The EA has recommended that all
sub-projects be subject to environmental analysis since their precise impacts cannot be assessed
at this time. The EMF includes a requirement of consultations during sub-project EA preparation
and disclosure of the EA results of sub-project EAs.
Consultations during EA preparation for the project were extensive; the views of numerous
representatives (NGOs, producer organizations, technical services, and project coordinators) have
been incorporated into the document. The EA report that will be disclosed will include the
afore-mentioned documents prepared by the Borrower as annexes (with the exception of the
letters of notification). The RPF will be also disclosed as a separate document.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[  SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects wvhich require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



7
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                4/5/2002       10/11/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             11/18/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              11/18/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                5/24/2002      10/1/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             11/18/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              11/18/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                5/24/2002      7/18/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             11/18/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              11/18/2002
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                5/15/2002      10/10/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             11/18/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              11/18/2002
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Ousmane Seck                                11/11/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt/Person/World Bank  11/11/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                         11/11/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                          11/11/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEAR~CH  .J 1 FEED8ACK  ___  $T.SU MAPr ._  SHCIWCASE.. 



