Report No. PID10795
Project Name             CHAD-Agricultural Services and (@)
Producers Organizations Project
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Agricultural extension and research (60%);
Irrigation & drainage (309);
Agricultural marketing and trade (10%)
Project ID               P074266
Borrower(s)              REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry
of Livestock, Ministry of Environment
and Water
Address: NDjamena, Chad
Contact Person: M. Hassanty Oumar Chaib
Tel: (235) 52 37 63
Fax: (235) 51 51 19
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        November 11, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      November 1, 2002
Bank Approval Date       July 13, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Poverty in Chad.
Chad is one of the poorest countries in the world. About 80 percent of its
population live on less than a dollar a day. While poverty is severe all
over the country, it is more prominent in the rural areas where about 80
percent of the country's population reside. The average annual income per
capita is estimated at FCFA 98,000, but there is a marked disparity
between the rural and urban areas, with average incomes of FCFA 73,000 and
FCFA 180,000, respectively.
The Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) outlines
a poverty reduction strategy, building it on the following four
"pillars:" (a) continuing and consolidating the democratization process of
political and social life; (b) achieving a high level of sustained
economic growth that would lead to job creation and increased incomes; (c)
developing the human resource base as a means of promoting increased
long-term productivity through the provision of better access to basic
social services, healthcare, education and social protection, as well as
local employment; and (d) restoring and safeguarding the ecological base
through balancing the country's ecosystems with particular emphasis on
resolving environmental problems associated with human activity.
The agriculture sector.



About three quarters of Chad's population depend on agriculture for its
livelihood. Agriculture contributes about 40 percent of the country's
national income and 50 percent of its total exports. In the agriculture
sector, crop production is the dominant activity, accounting for 50 to 65
percent of rural sector activities. Within crop production, food crop
production is predominant, contributing from 80 to 85 percent of the
output in the subsector. Cotton is the main cash crop, followed by
groundnut and arabic gum. Livestock production activities are widespread,
accounting for 30 to 40 percent of the income in the subsector. Livestock
is followed by fisheries and forestry, which contribute 12 percent and 7
percent, respectively. The agricultural sector has been the main
beneficiary of the devaluation of the CFA Franc, and the sector's
performance has been satisfactory in recent years with average annual
growth of about four percent between 1996 and 2001.
Despite the recent positive track record of production increases, a large
majority of the Chadian population continues to remain below the poverty
line [the percentage will be verified during appraisal]. The widespread
rural poverty illustrates failure on the part of the Government and donors
to generate a development process that would have led to widely shared
rural growth. On the same note, agricultural production is characterized
by low yields and low labor productivity. Yields of most crops are much
lower than yields of similar crops in equivalent countries, often by as
much as 30 percent. In addition, year-to-year growth rates continue to be
strongly affected by exogenous factors such as world market prices and
rainfall. The latter factor underscores the importance of natural
resource management policies, especially regarding soil fertility and
development of water resources.
Chad's agricultural sector has, however, potential for improvement, and it
could, if adequately developed, make a significant contribution to the
reduction of poverty. Chad has three main ecological zones. The first two,
the Saharan oasis economy in the far North and the livestock economy of
the Sahelian zone, face large climatic ecological constraints, which limit
their potential as engines of growth. The southernmost Sudanian zone
offers the best agricultural potential, both in terms of food crops and
cash crops such as cotton and groundnuts.
If rural development is to make a significant contribution to Chad's
long-term growth, several problem areas, which have hampered progress in
the sector, must be addressed. The major problem areas or issues are the
following:
n Inadequate rural infrastructure. A recent analysis of the history of the
country's donor-supported development activities [carried out by whom]
revealed that rural areas have been acutely discriminated against in terms
of getting a fair share of resources, including access to funds needed to
improve the basic rural infrastructure. Basic infrastructure can be
broadly defined as access roads, potable water, electrification,
communication facilities, all of them necessary to enhance production in
rural areas. Equally important are health and education facilities.
Especially lacking have been schools for girls. Lack of these
infrastructures and poorly maintained roads, bridges and culverts,
transport facilities, market places, as well as poorly organized marketing
arrangements, quality control, and information networks, hinder
-2 -



advancement in both agriculture and rural nonfarm (RNF) sectors. This
makes it difficult for farmers and small RNF operators to expand domestic
and global marketing or their production. Consequently, they can only
produce limited quantities for the local markets where they operate.
Diversification of production to include perishables such as fruits and
vegetables in the crop production sector is almost impossible. In the RNF
sector, the minute scale of operations results in higher unit costs and
loss of competitive advantage.
n Inefficient cotton sector. The state-owned cotton company, Cottonchad
has performed very poorly over the past few decades. Production has
stagnated, operating costs have been high, and environmental degradation
poses additional threats to the development of the sector and its
viability. Recently, however, the government has adopted a strategy to
reform the cotton sector, with an objective to disengage the State from
the sector.
n Inefficient agricultural marketing system. Farming systems in Chad are
based on low input/low output technologies. Fertilizer use is generally
very limited. Also, there are still policy distortions that affect
agricultural growth. For instance, distribution of produced seeds and
fertilizer is controlled by the Government and sources from Cotonchad
indicate that fertilizer input prices contain high taxes, namely 22
percent and 7 percent on NPK and urea, respectively, and 22 percent on
farm implements. As a result, yields of major crops in Chad are clearly
lower than the same crops of other countries with similar agro-climatic
conditions. For instance, in 1998/99 the cotton yield was 638 kg/ha in
Chad compared to 1,100 kg/ha in Mali. Even in the cotton subsector, only
eight percent of the cotton area receives the recommended high
productivity packages of 100 kg/ha SP and 50 kg/ha of urea. Furthermore,
the performance in the sector is hampered by a lack of market integration
and a reliable market price information system. The cost of moving
commodities is high due to long distance between the markets. In addition,
seasonal variation of prices is also very common in the country; there is
a high disparity in prices for agricultural commodities between the dry
season and the rainy season. Prices also vary largely in the rural and
urban areas.
n Fragile ecosystems.    The fertility of the country's soil is declining
and land degradation is increasing. Continuous cropping, non-replenishment
of nutrients extracted from the soil, wind and water erosion, and poor
land husbandry practices are contributing to progressive depletion of the
native fertility of soils and, subsequently, to declining crop yields.
Even in the Sudanese zone, which is the most fertile area and receives
better rain fall than other areas of the country, the land degradation
problem has become serious because of lack of appropriate production
techniques, in particular: (a) limited use of soil and water conservation
measures; (b) lack of improved agricultural tools; (c) limited use of
organic and inorganic fertilizers; (d) burning of crop residues to clear
fields; and (e) reduction in fallow periods. Long-term overuse of these
lands poses a serious risk for the ecosystem and the sustainability of
agriculture.
n Weak rural financial services.    Lack of access to institutional credit
for the vast majority of small farmers and small cottage industry (SCI)
-3 -



entrepreneurs is a major problem facing rural development. There is no
national policy on rural finance, and the local banks have shown little
interest in financing rural sector activities. They have concentrated
their activities almost exclusively on financing the annual cotton
production and the needs of the Cotonchad. Moreover, banks do not have a
decentralized network of branches or agencies to facilitate their
activities with potential rural clients. Thus, the only financial services
in rural areas are provided by isolated initiatives, supported mainly by
GTZ, the "Agence Francaise de Developpement," and NGOs. The shallowness of
both formal and informal rural financial markets has hindered
modernization of the sector and the transition to more lucrative nonfarm
activities.
n Weak producers organizations and rural communities.     Besides marketing,
supply of inputs, and provision of social services, producer organizations
and rural communities can have a crucial role in rural development,
including participation in the policy-making process and defining the
research and extension agenda. The number of producer organizations in
Chad is estimated to be around 35,000, of which 31,000 are in the
Soudanian zone and 4,000 in the Sahelian zone. However, while producer
organizations are active in the agricultural production and development
process, their managerial, organizational, technical and financial
capacities are weak and they often lack confidence in their own
development. Furthermore, their representatives sometimes face a problem
of legitimacy in the eyes of the members, especially where their
organizations have been initiated by external partners (Government,
donors, NGOs). Local governments are still a largely untapped resource for
self-governed development.
nInadequate capacity of public-sector institutions. Support services in
rural areas are mainly provided by such public institutions as the
Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock, Environment and Water. However,
collaboration between these ministries in development activities has
proven ineffective, and this has negatively affected the agricultural
performance. In June 1999, the Government redefined the role of the State
and proposed a new rural development framework. Implementation of its
legislative process, which is connected with the recently approved
administrative decentralization, is still at a very early stage. Even with
this new framework, the roles and functions of different state agencies,
the private sector and POs are not quite clear. The re-definition of the
role of the state has resulted in a decrease in the efficiency of state
interventions rather than in a real sharing of functions with the private
sector. The lack of a strong private sector and good local governments,
controlled by and accountable to the local people, are major constraints
for growth and delivery of essential services. There is, therefore, a need
to build a strong local government system, which would combine
decentralization with accountability and adherence to rules; to ensure
sufficient resources at local levels to enable local governments to
deliver services; and to create partnerships among the Government, NGOs
and the private sector.
Agricultural extension is not adequately efficient and there is a need for
more private sector participation in this activity. While the draft
agricultural extension strategy (2001) is promising--it emphasizes a
decentralized, bottom-up approach and strengthened partnerships with NGOs
- 4 -



and the private sector-- its implementation would require training of
staff in new techniques, decentralization of decision making, and
development of some models on how the proposed approaches can be
implemented.
The National Agriculture Research System is confronted with major
institutional issues such as (a) inadequacy of operational funds, (b)
excessive focus on supply-driven research, (c) poor incentive structure
for scientists, and (d) the system's isolation from outside research. As
in the case of extension, there is a need for more private sector
participation.
Statistical and monitoring functions in the ministries involved in rural
development are insufficiently developed and funded. These functions do
not seem to be adequately appreciated by the professional people who tend
to regard them as less important than other development tasks. The other
problems include inadequate training of the staff involved in statistical
and monitoring work, lack of a real structure for these tasks at the
regional or departmental levels, and missing coordination of the
statistics and monitoring functions between the three ministries working
on rural development.
A major challenge in agricultural services that Chad now faces is to
determine how it can exploit the complementary efforts of potential
partners that could be involved in research and extension efforts, such as
the university, regional research centers, NGOs, public and private
institutions, farmer service centers, national agricultural schools, and
training centers. Meeting this challenge would allow supplementary
scientific skills and technical resources to be tapped, and, subsequently,
to develop well-articulated research and extension delivery systems that
are more demand-driven, efficient, and accountable to producers.
Government strategy to address the sector-specific issues:
The Government has developed a national rural development strategy that
was presented to the main donors during the Geneva IV Sectoral
Consultation on Rural Development held in June 1999. The main objectives
of this strategy are to increase production in a sustainable way while
preserving the environment and reinforcing institutional and human
capacities. The strategic choices for the Government to attain these
objectives include the following actions: (a) creating sustainable growth
in agricultural production; (b) supporting rural organizations; (c)
improving natural resource management; (d) decentralizing the delivery of
agricultural services; (e) improving the effectiveness of the public
sector; and (f) improving the provision of basic services for the people
and the rural economy. A multi-donor program to assist and finance the
implementation of the strategy is under preparation and involves the
French Development Corporation, the African Development Bank, the United
Nations Development Program, the Food and Agriculture Organization, the
German Development Agency, and the World Bank.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed Agricultural Services and
Producer Organizations Project (ASPOP) is to increase agricultural
productivity and rural income while preserving the natural resource
- 5-



base.The proposed project    would support this objective by financing
productivity-raising interventions and promoting the institutional and
technical capacities of producer organizations, government institutions,
and private-sector operators and groups related to rural development.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Government needs substantial financial assistance to implement its
rural development strategy. IDA support, through ASPOP and later LDP,
would provide the bulk of the needed external financing that would not
otherwise be available. Substantial IDA involvement would also serve as a
catalyst to mobilize additional financing from the donor community, which
has been important in the rural development sector in the past, but
generally with relatively short commitment periods and in small
geographical areas. ASPOP would provide a longer-term perspective to rural
development, thus helping the Government promote sustainable agricultural
growth and economic development in rural areas.
The involvement of IDA is also expected to impose a certain measure of
discipline and accountability in project implementation, facilitate donor
coordination, and build pressure for adhering to time-bound work plans and
targets, which many governments regard as significant assets. Furthermore,
IDA's experience in other countries offers comparative advantage and
allows sound policy advice to the Government in reorganizing public
research and extension institutions and improving their capacity, in
strengthening POs, and in fostering linkages between public agencies, POs,
and other private sector.
4. Description
The proposed project has three components and several closely linked
subcomponents. The components are as follows:
1. Promotion of sustainable growth in agricultural production.
2. Capacity building for agricultural services.
3. Project administration and monitoring.
1.1 Promotion of Sustainable Growth in Agricultural Production
Under this component, the project would finance: (a) productive
investments; (b) support to producers organizations; (c) competitive
research grant program; (d) agricultural extension and (e) studies on
project-related topics.
(a)    Productive investments  This subcomponent would support
income-generating investments (such as storage, small-scale water
management, and soil conservation infrastructures) proposed by producer
organizations on a demand-driven principle. The support would be given as
grants to reduce investment costs with the purpose of promoting
production, processing and marketing of farm and livestock products. The
beneficiaries of the grants would be legal entities; women's groups and
associations would receive special preference. The up-front contribution
by the beneficiaries would be at least 20 percent of subproject cost;
moreover, at least one half of each contribution would be in cash.
- 6 -



The subcomponent would finance the following three types of productive
investments and support services needed to identify, prepare and implement
subprojects:
fn Productive infrastructures facilities such as construction and
management of small-scale water management schemes; development of
infrastructure to conserve soil and water resources; and establishment of
storage and rural veterinary facilities.
n Agricultural development activities such as the improvement of existing
farming systems and the development of conservation farming techniques;
the establishment of seed and plant nurseries; the promotion of domestic
and export agriculture; the transformation and marketing of farm products;
the diversification of crop and animal species; and support services.
n Off-farm productive activities in rural areas.
(b) Support to producer organizations. This subcomponent would finance,
on a demand-driven basis, special activities to strengthen producer
organizations in rural areas. Eligible activities would include the
following:
n Enhanced participation of POs in the formulation of local development
plans, development of basic accounting and procurement methods, and
implementation and monitoring of subprojects.
n Overall implementation of project activities through (i) workshops on
participatory approaches, use of revolving funds, business concepts,
accountability, and group business leadership; (ii) consultation forums,
interchanges among POs and study tours both in-country and abroad; (iii)
promotion of the representation functions of POs in state and district
steering committees, as well as in the private sector, NGOs, and donor
organizations.
n Development of a rural communication system (radio rurale and the
development and distribution of newsletters to be managed by POs).
(c) Competitive Research Grant Program (CRGP). The program would support
short-term
(2 to 3 years) research aimed at finding solutions for constraints to the
productive investments under
subcomponent (a), including activities to develop better links between
agribusinesses and small farmers.
(d) Agricultural extension program. This subcomponent would mainly provide
extension and training services to POs. Subprojects under this
subcomponent would either be those directly required for the
implementation of the productive investments under subcomponent (a), or
they would be small-scale well targeted subprojects that directly support
promotion agricultural development.
(e) Project-related studies. The project would finance studies to deal
with the constraints and opportunities that arise from demand-driven
subprojects. In particular, these studies could relate to (i) identifying
crop and livestock development opportunities, identifying and using
inputs, and identifying agricultural technology needs for specific regions
or departments, or to (ii) assessing the need for proposed agricultural
service centers, design of their institutional set-up and procedural
arrangements, and development of mechanisms to ensure their sustainability.
-7 -



1.2 Capacity Building for Agricultural Services. Under this component, the
project would finance the development and strengthening of (a) public
service in ministries linked directly to rural development and (b)
private-sector agricultural services.
(a) Public service development. This subcomponent would focus on improving
the capacities of technical ministries directly linked to rural
development at the national and decentralized levels and on implementing a
thematic research program to enable the project and development partners
to deal with constraints and priorities identified by stakeholders in
rural development. In particular, project funds would be available for the
following:
n Capacity building to strengthen the technical ministries and the rural
development institutions charged with the formulating rural policies,
programs, and associated public investments. The project would (i) help
the technical ministries to better monitor and evaluate rural sector
activities, in close collaboration with HIPC initiatives and the
macro-economic, regulatory and fiscal framework for improving the rural
sector database recently developed by the Cellule Permanente; (ii) help
the statistical units of rural ministries to analyze and disseminate
statistical information; (iii) help develop a rural market information
system that would ensure that POs and their partners have adequate timely
information; and (iv) help strengthen the environmental management
capacities of rural ministries to implement proposed measures to mitigate
the potential negative effects of project investments on natural resources
in the agricultural sector.
n Thematic research program to carry out studies on agricultural research
activities identified as priorities by the Government, POs and the private
sector and aimed at finding solutions for thematic and long-term
constraints to intensification, diversification and sustainability of the
agricultural production systems.
(b) Private-Sector Development. Under this subcomponent, the project would
make financial and technical assistance available to:
n Help rural private services (NGOs, consulting firms) develop improved
management, decision-making, business, and investment skills in producer
organizations.
n Strengthen and further develop Producer Services and Management Centers
(PSMCs). The PSMCs would offer a range of business services to help
small-scale producers and rural entrepreneurs in such tasks as (i)
assessment of subproject feasibility; (ii) development of business plans;
(iii) identification and structuring of financial resources; (iv)
identification of markets and assistance in accessing them; (v)
facilitation of ex-post and ex-ante agricultural activities such as
post-harvest product-processing and technology transfer.
n Foster the privatization of agricultural services, including veterinary
services.
1.3 Project Administration and Monitoring. This component would support
(a) the administration and management of the project and (b) the
monitoring and evaluation of project activities. The project would fully
finance the establishment and operation of a Project Coordinating and
Management Unit (PCMU). This unit would contain a monitoring and
- 8 -



evaluation support section at the central level (PCMU), with branches in
each of the six regions/districts (RPCMUs). The project would also finance
the costs of project oversight activities by a Project Steering Committee
(PSC).
1.4. Indicative Project Cost (in US$ million): 41.36
Sustainable Growth in Agricultural Production : US$ million 31.41
Capacity Building : US$ million 5.64
Project Administration and Monitoring : US$ million 4.31
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $7.08
IBRD
IDA $18.65
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $4.04
FRANCE: MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS (MOFA) $2.63
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED) $8.96
Total Project Cost $41.36
6. Implementation
Implementation Period: Six years.
Oversight of the Project
A National Steering Committee (NSC), to be established by the Government,
would be responsible for overseeing project activities. The committee
members would include representatives of the Government, civil society,
and POs. The NSC would be responsible for (a) reviewing the project's
annual work programs and budgets submitted by the Project Coordination and
Management Unit (PCMU); (b) reviewing progress toward achieving the
project's objectives; and (c) taking corrective actions as necessary to
ensure successful implementation of the project. The NSC would have at
least two meetings each year to allow the Government and the donors to
thoroughly discuss project activities and make decisions concerning them.
Establishment of the NSC, with adequate representation from key
ministries, the private sector, and NGOs, would be a condition of project
effectiveness.
Project Management and Implementation Arrangements.
Project Management. A Project Coordination and Management Unit (PCMU) at
the national and regional levels (RPCMU) would be responsible for overall
coordination of the project, including preparation of the annual work
programs and budgets, preparation and production of the annual progress
reports and financial statements, and establishment of a decentralized
monitoring and evaluation system. The PCMU would be established within the
Ministry of Agriculture, but it would also work closely with the Ministry
of Livestock and the Ministry of Environment and Water.
The PCMU would be headed by a national Project Director. He would be
assisted by a Technical Coordinator, a Financial Management Specialist, an
Accountant, a Procurement Specialist, a Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist, and support staff, all of them suitably qualified and
experienced support staff. The National Project Director, the Technical
-9-



Coordinator, the Financial Management Specialist and the Procurement
Specialist would be recruited prior to negotiations. The appointment of
other key staff for the PCMU would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
A Regional Project Coordination and Management Unit (RPCMU) would be
established in each of the seven regions to prepare and implement annual
work programs. Each RPCMU would be headed by a Regional Coordinator, who
would be assisted by a Financial Management Specialist, an Accountant, a
Procurement Specialist, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, and
relevant support staff, suitably qualified and experienced. The
establishment of a RPCMU in at least three regions--plus the recruitment
of the Regional Coordinator, Financial Management Specialist, Procurement
Specialist and Accountant in each such RPCMU under terms and conditions
and terms of reference acceptable to IDA--would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. Contractors selected through a competitive process wold
help the RPCMU coordinate the implementation of productive investments and
the strengthening of POs. The monitoring and evaluation of subprojects
also would be contracted out to service providers for close followup and
implementation advice. At the district level, a Selection Committee (SC)
for productive investments comprising representatives of the public
sector, civil society, and POs, would be set up to evaluate subproject
proposals and to determine their feasibility and fundability. The
Selection Committee (SC) would be supported by a small Technical Support
Unit (TSU) that would be established to carry out the necessary
technical, economic, social and environmental evaluations of the
productive investments.
Project Implementation: The Borrower would prepare a comprehensive Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) and submit it to IDA for review and comments
before project appraisal. The PIM would define procedural arrangements for
implementing, monitoring and supervising the project. It would also
include procurement and disbursement arrangements; methodology for
environmental assessment; performance indicators; monitoring and
evaluation guidelines; procedures for identification, appraisal, approval,
supervision, monitoring, and evaluation of subprojects; and criteria for
the selection of beneficiaries and implementing agencies (service
providers). The PIM would also contain model forms for grant agreements as
well as specific guidelines for the Competitive Research Grant Program
(CRGP), Administrative and Financial Management Procedures, and Monitoring
and Evaluation. Adoption of a PIM by the Government in a manner
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
The Government would submit to the Association for its review and approval
the annual work programs and budgets no later than October 31 of each year.
Financing mechanisms. The proposed decentralized format for implementation
requires the establishment of appropriate instruments to channel financial
resources to implementing agencies and local beneficiary groups (farmers
and other private-sector operators). Two types of funding facilities would
be set up:
n Rural Development Facility (RDF). The RDF would be the main mechanism to
provide grants to producer organizations for financing productive
investments related to infrastructure facilities, agricultural
development, and off-farm production activities (see Section C, para 1.1).
- 10 -



n Rural Technology Facility (RTF). The RTF would be the main mechanism for
providing grants to support (i) producer organizations ( C.1.2), (ii)
agricultural research, through a competitive grant program (CGP)(C.1.3)
and thematic research (C. 2.11); (iii) extension and training services to
rural communities and producer organizations (C. 1.4); and (iv)technical
assistance for private-sector development (C. 2.2).
The procedures and eligibility criteria for each of these facilities would
be detailed in the PIM.
Flow of funds. Two Special Accounts, Special Account A and Special Account
B, containing funds estimated to be needed during a 90-day period, would
be opened to finance transactions related to the subprojects and other
project activities. Special Account A would cover transactions related to
RDF and RTF activities, while Special Account B would cover all other
activities. A Project Account would be opened for local funds. Subaccounts
A and B would be opened in each region to cover activities implemented at
the regional level. The Special Accounts and Project Account would be
managed by the PCMU.
7. Sustainability
The project itself does not produce marketable products, thus no
commercial sustainability is expected from it. However, the entire purpose
of the project is to promote the sustainability of the farming industry
and its occupants in Chad. Among others, the following measures would
contribute to this goal:
n Facilitating establishment of income-generating micro-enterprises in a
large scale to increase smallholders' incomes and contribute to their food
security.
n Empowering POs and facilitating their taking over increased
responsibilities in the management of agricultural support services.
n Promoting a competitive research grant system involving private sector,
POs and NGOs.
n Helping reorganize the public research and extension institutions that
will contribute to a more efficient, demand-driven, accountable and
sustainable agricultural support services.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed ASPOP would build on experiences obtained in decentralized,
rural development investment projects supported by the Bank and other
development agencies in various regions of the world, as well as from the
Bank's experience in agricultural support services projects in Chad and
other countries. Below are key lessons derived from selected projects and
sector summaries:
n World Bank-supported Agricultural Services Program (PSAP) (Cr 26850 CD)
showed that: (a) the involvement of producers in the design and operation
of extension programs is critical in ensuring the continued technical
relevance and usefulness of the services provided; (b) strong
producer-driven organizations are essential for improving the productive
capacity of producers because they facilitate improved access to
agricultural support services, inputs, and market outlets; (c)
establishing effective research-extension linkages requires institutional
reforms that create positive incentives for the agents to collaborate; and
- 11 -



(d) information flow should be continuous, flowing not only from
researchers to farmers, but also vice versa.
n World Bank-financed projects in Africa and elsewhere over the last two
decades have revealed that for rural development projects to achieve the
desired success, it would be necessary that: (a) projects be designated,
formulated, and implemented by communities, based on the needs their
populations have identified and partially on their own resources; (b)
projects be based on local social structures; (c) local development has
strong political commitment from the center; (d) the capacities of NGOs
and consulting firms be improved to support producers organizations; (e)
the effective representation of women and women's groups be ensured in
community associations and other forums; (f) resources and
responsibilities be transferred to local governments; and (g) local
accountability and ownership be ensured.
n Guinea Livestock Services Restructuration Project and the Guinea
Agricultural Extension and Research project indicate that contracting
livestock services and establishing partnership with private veterinarians
and other operators is an important way of improving quality of livestock
services to producers and communities.
n OED's evaluation of Bank work on agricultural research projects
indicates overall satisfaction in performance of most projects. The
evaluation identifies, however, the following weak areas requiring
improvement: (a) limited government commitment to adequately fund the
system and adopt sound research management principles; (b) poor selection
and prioritization of research activities to study; (c) limited linkages
of the National Agricultural Research system (NARS), both in the country
and with appropriate external development partners (such linkages would
enhance the effectiveness of national and international programs); (e)
limited linkage between research and technology dissemination. These
linkages would increase the speed and rate of adoption; (f) need to
foster concrete procedures in NARS that would enhance the relevance of
research; and (g) lack of scientific rigor and quality research due to
ineffective scientific networking, inadequate external reviews and
linkages and non-competitive funding.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  To assess potential impacts of the proposed
project, an environmental analysis has been conducted with a focus on
future potential sub-projects such as (i) hillside water retention
reservoirs, pastoral wells, small-scale irrigation and drainage work,
small dams, and any other water resource management facilities allowing
the channeling of surface and groundwater for agricultural and livestock
purposes; (ii) off-farm activities such as production of building
materials; and (iii) construction of buildings.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ousmane Seck
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473 9149
Fax:   (202) 473 5147
- 12 -



11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 15, 2002.
- 13 -



