CIRCUULATING cud'
FILE        COPY                                TO U RETURNED'TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
CIRCULATING COPY                     Report No. P-1681-IVC
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
August 7, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit:         CFA Franc (CFAF)
The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc in
a ratio of 1 French Franc to 50 CFA Francs.
The French Franc is currently floating.
Present Rates
US $1.00                   C CFAF 200
CFAF 1           -         uS$O.OO5
CFAF 1,000 -               US$5.00
CFAF 1,000,000   -         US$5,ooo
FISCAL YEAR
Borrowert
Crfdit de la COte d'Ivoire (CCI)s
October 1 to September 30
Guara ntor:
Republio of the Ivory Coast:
January 1 to Deooember 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI) with the guarantee of the
Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$5.6 million to help
finance a Small-Scale Enterprise Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years including three years of grace and a rate of interest of 8.5 percent
per annum. CCI would relend the proceeds of the loan to Ivorian small-scale
enterprises for up to 15 years including an appropriate period of grace
with an interest rate of 12 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on the Ivory Coast, Report
No. 296 - IVC "Current Economic Situation and Prospects of the Ivory Coast",
April 11, 1974, which is based on the findings of an economic mission in April of
1973, confirmed the country's favorable growth prospects and its creditworthiness.
It concluded also that the Government's development efforts required and
deserved continued external support. While recent developments in export
and import prices have led to substantial quantitative changes in the balance of
payments estimates from those made in the report, our revised calculations
still support these conclusions. Annex I contains basic country data.
3.        Throughout the 1960's the Ivory Coast's economic growth was rapid.
GDP grew at an annual rate of 7.5 percent in real terms and in 1972 per
capita income reached US$340. Although this growth rate could not be fully
sustained in the early 1970's because of deteriorating terms of trade and
adverse weather conditions, growth in 1971-74 still averaged 6 percent a
year, in real terms. Factors contributing to rapid growth were the Govern-
ment's liberal and pragmatic economic policies which have made the country
attractive to foreign investors, the availability of ample land and timber
resources, the existence of a large pool of labor including immigrants from
Laheliam countries and, during the late sixties, rising commodity export
prices. Recognizing the country's vulnerability in its dependence on three
export commodities (cocoa, coffee and wood constitute about 75 percent of total
exports while exports are some 32 percent of GDP), the Government began after
1965 to diversify agriculture by introducing or expanding oil palm, coconut,
pineapple, rice, rubber, cotton and sugar cultivation--and by placing more
emphasis on other economic sectors such as industry, mining and tourism.
Although the full benefits of these diversification efforts are still some
years off, the prospects are that the Ivory Coast will gradually become less
dependent on its traditional exports.



-2-
4.        The Government's development objectives include, in addition to
broadening the production base, the extension of economic infrastructure in
such fields as transport and power, the improvement of urban facilities,
regional diversification, the development of secondary industrial centers,
the development of education and the Ivorianization of the economy. These
objectives correspond well to the needs and the possibilities of the country.
Past and ongoing development has laid a solid foundation for further growth.
5.        The Government's awareness of social problems is reflected in the
current (1971-1975) Plan's emphasis on the income effects of development,
regional balance and education. Thus, to reduce inequalities, recent salary
raises have been graded down from 26 percent for the lowest to 5 percent for
the higher paid workers.   A number of projects, for instance, cocoa, rice,
oil palm, rubber, sugar and cotton are designed to narrow the gap between
urban and rural incomes and to reduce regional income disparities. In the
same vein, over the past five years, the Government has increased producer
prices for cocoa by 120 percent, for coffee by 60 percent and for cotton by
35 percent.
6.        However, the next Plan (1976-80) will need to focus more sharply
still on problems of urbanization, prospects for employment in both rural
and urban areas and income distribution. To assist the Government in these
directions, a special Bank employment mission, which included ILO staff,
visited the Ivory Coast. The mission's report "Ivory Coast: Special
Report on Employment" (Report No. 279a-IVC) was issued in July 197h, after
detailed discussions with the Government. The mission identified the em-
ployment problem as one of growing imbalances: while projected demand for
labor appears to be matched by manpower supply (including immigration),
shortages in rural areas and a surplus in urban labor markets will develop
in the absence of corrective action. The mission also singled out a-number
of issues for further study, including the costs and benefits of creating
a better economic and social infrastructure in secondary centers combined
with a certain degree of industrialization and suggested changes in educa-
tional and training systems.
7.        To assist the Government in the orientation of its industrial
policy, a Bank mission, including a UNIDO staff member, prepared the report,
"Current Status and Prospects of the Industrial Sector in the Ivory Coast"
(Report No. 553-IVC), which was issued in February 1975 after detailed dis-
cussions with the Government. The mission calculated that local raw material
processing and import substitution industries contributed equally to the
impressive sectorial growth in real terms of 15 percent per year during the
1960-1973 period. As pursuing import substitution much further may be costly
to the economy, the mission supported the recent change in Government policy
encouraging industrial exports and recommended modification of the Investment
Code accordingly. The mission agreed with the Government that Ivorianization
in terms of capital and labor of the, at present, largely foreign-owned manu-
facturing sector should have high priority. Future growth prospects were
evaluated favorably by the mission, but with a lasting world-wide economic
slow-down a downward adjustment is probably required here.,



- 3 -
8.        Our forecasts show that after the recent changes in the commodity
price structure, successful implementation of the Government's development
program will more than in the past depend on the availability of foreign
fiwnds. Urt-il recently, most Ivorian export products have been in strong
demand. Therefore, in 19Th, higher export earnings more than compensated for
higher import outlays, resulting in a US$50 million balance of payments sur-
plus after three consecutive years of deficit. IHowever, current Bank com-
modity price forecasts point to a deterioration of the Ivory Coast's terms
of trade. In 197h, already, timber exports have dropped markedly as a direct
consequence of a sliump in the European construction industry. Yet, the import
bill will continue to rise rapidly because of high inflation rates in supplier
countries, especially for investment goods, fertilizers and oil. The net oil
import bill went up from US$15 million in 1972 to US$80 million in 1974 and is
expected to reach US$85 million in 1975, an increase from 3 percent of 1972
commodity imports to 7.5 percent in 1975. The Government has taken vigorous
action to limit the impact of higher imports on the country's balance of pay-
ments. For instance retail prices of petroleum products, electricity, rice,
sugar and other consumer products have been increased sharply, while the pro-
ducer price for rice has been doubled to encourage local production. The
country's first sugar mill started operatinig in April, 1975. Its production
will replace 50,000 tons of sugar imports and roughly meet current domes-
tic demand. These and similar efforts in other lines of production will permit
a reduction in the share of food imports from its present level of about 20
percent of total commodity imports.
9.        Despite all this, the trade surplus is expected to dwindle and it
will no longer compensate for the deficit in non-factor services, as it did
in the past. Consequently, and in contrast to the 1965-1970 period when the
Ivory Coast enjoyed a resource surplus of US$35 million per year on average,
a resource gap of US$80-100 million per year in the second half of the 1970's
appears inevitable. This is equivalent to about 2.5 percent of projected GDP
or about 5.5 percent of projected exports and non-factor services in 1975. As
in the past, with interest payments, transfers of profits and workers' remit-
tances abroad, the factor services account will continue to be in deficit as
well. Therefore, to maintain balance of payments equilibrium there will have
to be a substantial compensatory inflow of capital from abroad. The Govern-
ment may have to draw on the Oil Facility again as it did in 1974 for an
amount of US$13.3 million. Indications of a possible discovery of offshore
oil are interesting in this resDect, but too premature to be taken into
account at this stage.  Central Bank reserves at the end of 1974 stood at
about US$65 million, which is equivalent to 3.5 weeks of 1974 commodity imports.
10.       Based on past experience and assuming an adequate inflow of capital,
the Ivory Coastts economy may be expected to adjust to changing world economic
conditions. Early in 1974, the Government established a task force to advise
on short term adjustments; the need for structural changes is being given



- 4 -
particular attention in the preparation of the new Five-Year Plan. Good
growth prospects in several sectors should facilitate the adoption of corrective
measures. For example, the Ivory Coast has substantial potential to increase
electricity generation from hydro-sources. According to the Government's
program, an estimated 85 percent of Ivorian demand for electricity would be
met from hydro-electric plants by the early eighties against 40 percent at pre-
sent.
11.       Structural changes will take time and imply the continuation of a
sizeable investment effort. In recent years gross investment averaged about
21 percent of GDP, and the proportion of the public sector in total invest-
ments increased from an average of 50 percent in 1965-70 to 60 percent in
1970-73. Public investments for 1975 are estimated at about US$500 million.
This amount would have to double in current prices between 1975 and 1980,
in order to maintain the investment rate necessary to achieve a growth of GDP
by 6 percent per year in real terms.
12.       DDmestic public savings in the future are likely to cover a smaller
part of capital outlays than they did in the past, even assumdrig continued
good fiscal performance. With budget revenues already exceeding 20 percent
of GDP, future Government resources cannot reasonably be expected to increase
much faster than the economy as a whole. The Government has been quite suc-
cessful in generating budgetary savings but with rapidly increasing social
expenditures, for instance for housing and education, these savings will be
uander heavy pressure. To some extent savings from public enterprises may
provide some relief to the budgetary constraint. Revenues of the Stabilization
Fund for agricultural products fluctuate with world market prices and as it is
the Government's policy to pass more of commodity export earninigs to farmers,
this source of public savings is unlikely to expand. Therefore, it will require
considerable effort from the Government to continue to finance out of local public
savings after debt service -- which in the past financed 40 to 50 percent of
public investments -- not less than 25 to 30 percent of public investments in
the next five years. 'Thus at least 70 percent of public investments will have
to be financed from other sources.
13.       The chances that additional domestic private funds could be raised
to finance public investments remain low for two main reasons. First, tradi-
tionally part of the profits made by foreign investors has been transferred
abroad and this will continue in the future. Second, non-Ivorian labor--it
is estimated that between 25 and 30 percent of the Ivory Coast's population is
non-Ivorian--transferred about US$100 million to their home countries as
workers' remittances in 1974.  Direct controls to limit private transfers are
not permitted within the Franc zone of which the Ivory Coast is the most im-
portant member in Africa; such controls would probably be counter-productive as
they would deter the inflow of foreign private capital, and they would rep-



resent a serious blow to the Ivory Coast's much poorer neighbors, especially
Upper Volta, which receives about 40 percent of immigrant workers' remit-
tances. But these transfers, of course, mean a substantial drain on domestic
savings for the Ivory Coast. Steps by the Government to raise interest rates,
establish a local stock market and place more emphasis on Ivorianization of
the economy are not likely to alter these flows substantially in the medium
term. Government bonds issued with a tax free return of 7 to 10 percent have
had only moderate success so far.
14.       Absorptive capacity in terms of projects to be financed in the
public sector is substantial. The inflow of foreign loan capital into the
public sector in 1974 was about US$215 million; in 1975 it may need to be as
high as US$325 million. Assuming that 40 to 50 percent of future foreign
capital requirements will continue to be provided by international organiza-
tions and foreign governments and the rest by more expensive sources like
suppliers' credits and private banks, the debt service ratio would rise from
its rather low level of 6.6 percent in 1973 to around 15 percent in the
early 1980's. We consider this level to be manageable. If the capital
required cannot be obtained on appropriate terms, the investment program
would have to be cut back and overall growth would drop below 6 percent. The
projected average contribution of net public savings to the financing of
public investments (paragraph 12), will in many cases be less than the
local cost component of projects. Therefore foreign donors should be willing
to finance not only the foreign cost component of projects but also some local
costs in those projects where the foreign exchange component is low.
15.       A basic economic mission, which visited the country in June/July
1975, will evaluate the country's long-term prospects in the context of the
draft 1976 - 1980 Development Plan, and will undertake a thorough reexamina-
tion of our projections, the underlying assumptions and especially the con-
sequences for Ivory Coast's external borrowing and debt service. However,
there is little reason to believe that there will be much, if any, reduction in
the higher level of capital requirements now foreseen. The terms of borrowing
therefore become a mo're important consideration. If, for instance, all sup-
plementary needs for future capital were to be met on terms offered in the
Eurodollar market--to which the Ivory Coast has access--the debt service ratio
could substantially exceed the level of 15 percent projected for the 1980's.
To keep debt service within manageable limits and to enable the Government
to implement its development policy, it is desirable that foreign capital be
made available on as concessionary terms as possible, including long repayment
and grace periods. In view of the still low debt service ratio, the good
future growth potential of the economny and the expected increase in export
earnings, the Ivory Coast remains creditworthy for substantial additional
borrowing from the Bank.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATION4S IN THE IVORY COAST
16.       Since 1968 the Bank's lending to the Ivory Coast has expanded
rapidly and now includes nineteen loans totalling US$.197.1 million and an
IDA credit of US$75 million. Half of these twenty operations have been
for agriculture for the development of cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm
and coconut production and the construction of two oil mills; there were
four road projects; the remaining six loans were for education, telecom-
munications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system and tourism
development. IFC's small participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de
Developpement Industriel (US$ 204,000) was increased in 1974 by a 50 per-
cent stock dividend. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects, with particular
reference to those which are encountering problems in execution and giving
rise to delays in disbursements.
17.       The agricultural sector, including forestry, remains the princi-
pal foreign exchange earner and domestic employer. It continues to provide
close to 90 percent of exports, to employ a majority of the population, to
help stabilize an increasingly mobile population, and to bring development
to remote areas of the country. Our principal efforts are, therefore, in
this sector. We have appraised early this year, with the Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), a rice project in the forest zone of the
Ivory Coast; certain fiscal and marketing issues identified during appraisal
are presently being discussed with the Government. To assist the Government's
policy towards balanced regional growth and income distribution, we are
considering further oil palm, coconut and rubber projects in the Southwest,
and a livestock development project and a follow-up project to the Cotton Areas
Rural Development Project in the North.
18.       In order to strengthen the country's major transport axes and
link the agricultural areas to the nationts urban centers and ports, we
have placed considerable emphasis on transport and have become the principal
lender for road cons-truction and maintenance. A Fifth Highway Project is
being presented to the Executive Directors together with this proposed
project, and a feeder road project is under preparation. The Bank was closely
associated, as executing agency, with the 1969 UNDP Transport Survey of the
Ivory Coast; we will again act as executing agency for updating of this survey
which will serve as a basis for determining future priority transport invest-
ments. While the Bank is expected to continue to play a major role in the
transport sector, we hope that in the future its financing will increasingly
be shared with other sources of funds. The Government has requested our assis-
tance in financing the improvement of a section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail
line; other sections of the rail line are being financed by FED and EIB.



- 7 -
19.       The education system of the Ivory Coast has not been adequate
to support its rapid economic development, and the shortage of skilled man-
power has required employment of high-cost foreign technical and mana-
gerial personnel. The Bank is closely associated with the Government's
efforts to modernize its education system, principally at the secondary
and vocational levels. The Bank's Second Education Project, which was
signed in June 1975, is basically an interim operation, aimed at com-
plementing the First Education Project and preparing a third one.
20.       The Bank is cooperating with the Government to cope with rapid
urbanization in the Ivory Coast. A study of housing and urban transport
needs in Abidjan is being financed with Bank funds; it is hoped that an
urban development project based thereon can be appraised later this year.
In January 1975, the Bank extended a loan for sewerage and drainage de-
velopment which will cover the first phase of a ten-year Government pro-
gram to improve sanitation in Abidjan. We also hope to appraise later
this year a water supply project for secondary centers.
21.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy we appraised last fall two projects which carry forward the special
effort inaugurated in Western Africa through a 1971 Bank study on African
private enterprise. In addition to this proposed Small-Scale Enterprise
Project, a loan financing medium-scale industrial development will soon be
negotiated. In line with the Government's regional development policies,
substantial investments are foreseen in later years for industry and power
in the southwestern region, and for these the Government is likely to
request the Bank Group's assistance.
22.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of
1973, 30 percent was provided by governments, 20 percent by international
organizations (of which 60 percent by the Bank Group), and 30 percent by
private banks and bond issues, while 20 percent came in the form of sup-
plierst credits. The capital not supplied by international organizations
came mainly from four countries: France (35 percent), USA (20 percent),
Italy (15 percent), and Germany (8 percent). France and the European
Communities remain the principal source of development assistance in grant
form, accounting for about 10 percent of the flow of foreign assistance to
the public sector.
23.       Bank Group lending to the Ivory Coast, which has averaged about
US$25 million per year in the seven years since we began operating in the
Ivory Coast, is expected to increase substantially over the next several
years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt, which
is now approximately 12 percent (including undisbursed), is likely to
increase in the next five-year period to about 18 percent. The Bank
Group's share of debt service is at present 3.4 percent and is expected
to go up to about 7 percent by 1980.



8-
PART III - SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISES AND BANKING IN THE IVORY COAST
Small-Scale Enterprises in the Ivorian Economy
24.       Information on small-scale enterprises (SSEs) is derived from limited
surveys on the activities of traders, craftsmen and other small-scale enter-
prises in Abidjan and Bouake, the country's two largest cities, some infor-
mation from financial and tecbnical assistance institutions, arid the Bank
report on employment (No. 279a-IVC dated July 31, 197h). The Government is
planning to conduct a nationwide census on these enterprises in an effort to
update and extend its information.
25.       Virtually all SSEs are in the "informal" sector, i.e., that part of
the economy which encompasses all activity outside officially enumerated wage
employment in Government and public and private enterprises. SSEs are
generally characterized by the (a) predominant use of local resources; (b)
family control of the enterprises; (c) low volume of operations and turnover;
(d) use of rudimentary equipment and a simple, mainly labor-based technology;
(e) small number of wage earners and low labor productivity; (f) acquisition of
workers' skills generally outside the formal education system; and (g) concen-
tration in non-regulated, competitive markets.
26.       In the agricultural sector, informal activities account for approx-
imately 80 percent of value added, in the secondary sector (mainly industry,
energy, construction, and mining) about 22 percent, and about 20 percent
in the tertiary sector excluding Government or around 14 percent for the entire
tertiary sector (mainly services, trade, transport and Government). With-
in the secondary sector, informal activities account for 20 percent of
total value added by the branch "construction and repair of transport
equipment" and 18 percent by "woodworking" -- two key bra:_ches of the
proposed project. These branches rank among the most labor-intensive sub-
sectors, accounting for nearly 15 percent of total employment in the
secondary sector. In both branches the informal sector provides more
employment opportunities than *the formal sector. The informal sector also
contributes to a more even income distribution by providing new or supple-
mentary income to the generally low-income earners within the traditional
system. Moreover, in the informal sector there is considerable scope for
basic training of unskilled labor, building up of entrepreneurial talent,
and broadening of business ownership.
27.       SSEs in the Ivory Coast are confronted with various constraints
such as limited access to technical skills and financial resources, inadequate
institutional support, and lack of managerial skills. The proposed loan
would help alleviate some of these constraints. Together with other benefits
expected from the proposed loan, the project would meet a priority need for
the country's economic and social development (paras. 66 - 67).



- 9-
Ivorianization of the Economy
28.       Indigenous enterprises participate only modestly in non-agricultural
sectors of the economrj. In the secondary sector, for instance, most enter-
prises are owned by foreigners, managed by expatriate staff, and external
capital has financed the bulk of industrial development. At the end of
1971, non-Ivorians controlled an estimated 90 percent of the modern
manufacturing sector. In addition, since the education system produces few
technicians and trained workers, substantial expatriate labor has been
employed in the secondary sector.  Ivorian employment in the tertiary sector
is also modest, though higher than in industry. In 1970, 57 percent of
salaried employment in the tertiary sector was Ivorian, but non-Africans
dominated the higher paid skilled and managerial positions.
29.       The Government intends to continue to encourage foreign investment,
but it also considers "Ivorianization" of the econony an important goal for
the country's socio-economic development, and the 1971-75 Economic Development
Plan declares Ivorianization as one of its fundamental objectives. The
Government has not specified quantitative targets for its promotion program
for Ivorian enterprises, but it has taken a number of steps to help achieve
the plants objectives, among which are a comprehensive scheme to promote
mostly small-scale Ivorian enterprises and provide them with easier access to
credit. The capital and managerial needs of larger industrial enterprises will
probably continue to be largely met by foreigners in the short and medium term.
Government Promotion Policies
30.       The Government program to foster small-scale enterprises in the
Ivory Coast has mainly been carried out by the following institutions:
(a) a public agency for the promotion of Ivorian enterprises (Office
de Promotion de lVEntreprise Ivoirienne, OPEI) which provides technical
assistance to small-scale enterprises and helps prepare lending proposals to
financial institutions; (b) a Guarantee Fund (Fonds de Garantie) designed to
facilitate access to credit for Ivorian businessmen through guaranteeing loans
from financial institutions; and (c) a Participation Fund (Fonds de Parti-
cipation) through which the Societe Nationale de Financement (SONAFI)
provides quasi-equity capital to Ivorian enterprises to enable them to
qualify for discountable loans.
31.       OPEI. OPEI was established in 1968 with a broad mandate to promote
Ivorian small enterprises. However, organizational obstacles and staff con-
straints during the initial years prevented it from becoming an effective
technical assistance institution, and OPEI's organizational structure was
changed several times. The agency is mainly financed by budgetary allocations,
but special public funds are also provided for particular projects. In 1973
OPEI's budgetary funds amounted to about CFAF 265 million (US$1.3 million),
excluding the cost of foreign technical assistance.



- 10 -
32.       According to OPEl statistics for 1968-73, OPEI assisted some 600
enterprises, 27 percent of t-which obtained loans of about CFAF 1.2 billion
(US$6.0 million) from financing institutions for investments of CFAF 1.7
billion (us$8.5 million). These investments generated about 1,600 new jobs
at an average cost of about $5,300 per job. Most enterprises supported by OPEI
were in the tertiar- sector (43 percent), followed by bakeries (17 percent),
woodworking (9 percent) and construction (7 percent) in the secondary
sector. Financial institutions generally considered OPEI's appraisals of
little value during the first years of OPEI's activities; however, there
have been improvements in recent years. In the field of technical assis-
tance to SSEs, OPEI's activities have been hampered by lack of experienced
technicians and low staff motivation.
33.       The Guarantee Fund.  The Guarantee Fund was established in 1968 as an
autonomous pubic institution with initial capital of CFAF 100 million (uS$o.5
million) provided by the Government. The Fund guarantees up to 80 percent of
bank loans to wholly-oimed Ivorian enterprises or those with at least 50 percent
of Ivorian equity participa-tion.  Its maximum individual commitment is CFAF 25
million (US$125,000).  TotaL guarantee commitments are limited to five times
available Fund resources. So far the Fund has extended guarantees of CFAF 1.1
billion (US$5.5 million) for total loans of CFAF 1.6 billion (us$8.o million)
or 70 percent of the average loan. Beneficiaries have been enterprises in the
secondary and tertiary sectors, mostly for medium-term borrowing. As of Sep-
tember 1974, defaults in principal and interest amounted to CFAF 97 million
(US$0.5 million) or 9 percent of total guarantees. The Fund's reimbursements
to financial institutions, which are made only after completion of all legal
proceedings, accounted for about 21 percent of outstanding arrears. The Fund's
administrative expenses have been largely met by budgetary allocations; it has
until now received a 1 percent commission on guarantees for short-term loans
of less than two years maturity. To provide continuous resources to the Fund,
it has been agreed during negotiations that the Fund will charge a fee for all
guarantees.
34,       SONAFI's Participation Fund.  SONAFI was established in 1962 as a
public institution to promote Government participation in industrial and
commercial enterprises and to help mobilize national savings. In 1972 the
Government established within SONAFT a special Participation Fund with initial
capital of CFAF 100 million (US$D.5 million) to provide quasi-equity financing
to Ivoriari entrepreneurs. As of September 1974, the Participation Fund had
provided supplementary finincing to 33 enterprises. including 10 bakeries, in
the form of 7.5 percent subordinated loans which the Banque Centrale des Etats
de l'Afrique de l'uuest (PCEA.O) considers as quasi-equity capital for rediscount-
ing purposes. The Parbicipation Fund statutorily limits its financing to 15
percent of investment cost of up to CFAF 50 million (US$0.25 million) and
requires a minimum 10 percent self-financing from the project sponsor. The
Participation Fund's resources were completely committed by the end of 1974
and SONAFI asked the Governument for replenishment. With the BCEAO's reduction
of the minimum equity contribution to 10 percent of sub-project cost, resources
of the Participation Fund are no longer necessary for the,project.



35.       The Ivorian program to help promote indigenous enterprises appears
fairly comprehensive and the increase in lending to small-scale enterprises
in recent years would suggest that it has been largely successful. Efforts
are being made to improve the efficiency of the promotion system which still
suffers from some weaknesses. The system has been time consuming and costly
since loan applications have required review by several institutions. Lending
decisions have generally been based too much on availability of collateral
rather than detailed project appraisal including economic feasibility. More-
over, there has been a shortage of working capital for SSEs and insufficient
appraisal and follow-up capability by the financing institutions. OPEI's
performance could be improved through more effective organization and a major
prerequisite of the proposed loan was, therefore, the reorganization of OPEI
which is now being implemented.
Banking in the Ivory Coast
36.       Besides the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Juest
(BCEAO), financial institutions in the Ivory Coast include four commercial
banks, three development banks, and two leasing institutions. In addition, the
Caisse Autonome diAnortissement (CAA) manages public debt, holds public deposits
and mobilizes local savings through tax-free bonds. As stated above, SONAFI
participates in projects of national interest, and the public Guarantee Fund
extends guarantees for credits to small Ivorian enterprises.
37.       BCEAO exercises a qualitative and quantitative credit control through
a system of global and individual discount quotas. The interest rate structure
for the West African Monetary Union, of which the Ivory Coast is a member, is
based on BCEAO's discount rate, which remained unchanged at 3.5 percent from 1962
until early 1973 when it was raised to 5.5 percent. The interest rate for short-
and medium-term non-discountable loans is 11 percent per annum and between 6.5
and 9.5 percent for discountable loans. Long-term lending rate on most loans
by the Banque Ivoirienne de D6veloppement Industriel (BIDI) is 11 percent per
annum; CCI's rates range from 6.75 to 11.5 percent.
38.       Financial Assistance to SSEs.  Available information on lending to
SSEs -- defined by local financial institutions for statistical purposes as
loans of less than CFAF 25 million (US$125,000) -- suggests that borrowings
from financial institutions increased significantly in recent years from about
CFAF 300 million (Us$l.5 million) in 1970 to over CFAF 1 billion (US$5.0 million)
in 1973. The bulk of these loans was extended for trade or other tertiary sector
activities and had short maturities of up to four years. Two commercial banks --
Societe Generale de Barique de la C6te d'Ivoire (SGBCI) and Banque Internationale
pour le Commerce et l'Industrie de la C6te d'Ivoire (BICICI) -- accounted for
about two-thirds of total lending to SSEs, followed by CCI.
39.       Recently foreign sources have provided some long-term financing for
small-and medium-scale enterprise development. In 1973, USAID extended US$ 2.5
million to BIDI and US$1.5 million to CCI at 3.5 percent through the Entente
Fund (Fonds de Garantie du Conseil de lEntente) for onlending to indigenous
small enterprises with a minimum Ivorian capital participation of 35 percent.
The loan to CCI, which has no procurement restriction, is already completely
committed.  In late 1974 BIDI obtained a DY 10 million loan (US$ 4.3 million)
from the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) (30 years maturity, 2 percent
interest) for enterprises with an Ivorian capital participation of at least 30
percent. We are in contact with foreign donors to ensure coordination of our
views in this field.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
0.-      Following a 1971 Bank study on the "Development of African Private
Enterprises" the proposed project was identified by a reconnaissanice mission at
the end of 1972. The ensuing-dialogue with the Government on the elaboration
of the project and improvement in the institutional framework was carried out
through a pre-appraisal mission in late 1973 and a brief follow-up mission in
mid-1971|. The Government has sought Bank support of its promotion policy for
indigenous small-scale enterprises which it considers a priority task for   the
country's economic and social development.
41.       The project was appraised in November/December 1974 after OPEI had
cormpleted the first four branch studies (garages, bakeries, woodworking, clothnlrg)
and begun to implement its necessary reorganization -- two elements considered
essential prerequisites for the preparation and evaluation of the project.   The
nission report entitled "Appraisal of a Small-Scale Enterprise Project" (No. 780a-
IVC, dated July 21, 1975) is being distributed separately. Annex III contains
a loan and project summary. Negotiations were held in Washlngton from Jwue 23
to 27, 1975. The Ivorian Delegation was led by Mr. 14aka, Director, Caisse
Antonome dfAmortissement (CAA) and included Messrs. Amichia, Directeur G§nlral,
Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI); Sibi Gbeho, Directeur G6n6rAl, Office de Promotion
de 1'Entreprise Ivoirienne (OPEI); Kissi, Directeur adjoint, Ministere du Plan;
C'ambard, Conseiller technique, Ministere de l'Economie et des Finanices; Compagnon,
Conseiller technique, YMinistere du Plan; and Sakho, Coniseiller a 1Ambassade de
la C3te d'Ivoire.
Project Description and Objective
I2.        The project would consist of a line of credit for the financing of
sm.all-scale enterprises in the Ivory Coast. The specific objectives of the
project are to:
(i) provide financial assistance to small-scale enterprises thlrough
a line of credit to the Cr6dit de la C6te d'Ivoire (CCI);
(ii)  imTprove the quality and focus of OPETfs technical assistance
and streamline the agency's activities;
(iii)  develop further cooperation between OPEI and CCI, the system's
principal technical and financial institutions;
(iv) foster cooperatiorn with other institutions engaged in the promotion
of small-scale enterprises.
43.       Bank assistance aims at financing the investment requirements of small-
scale enterprises with particular emphasis on those branches which have been
identified as offering the best prospects for development by means of a series
of more or less similar sub-projects based on a "standard" model.   This new
approachThas been developed for this project because essentially it (i) permits
efficient cooperation between the technical assistance and financial agencies
inxvolved in the project; (ii) provides a strong incentive for improving OPEI's
technical assistance activities; (iii) allows a better evaluation of specific
sector programs for small-scale enterprises; and (iv) permits simplified, less
costly administration of the Bank loan.



-13-
44.       OPEI will concentrate mainly on branches where (a) employment and
value added account for a significant part of the informal sector and offer
development prospects suitable for small enterprises; (b) the repetition of
similar operations in a large number of small enterprises is feasible; (c)
appropriate vocational training exists and OPEI is able to provide efficient
technical assistance; and (d) investment capital is needed. OPEI will con-
tinue to prepare studies to identify branches potentially suitable for lend-
ing on this basis and submit them to the Bank for review and approval. CCI
would be authorized to commit Bank funds for its loans to enterprises in the
identified branches, once a first model appraisal has been approved by the
Bank. To provide necessary flexibility, it is proposed that part of the Bank
loan be available for enterprises in other branches on an ad hoc basis, with
loans exceeding a modest free limit subject to Bank approval.
Identified Branches
45.       Three branches -- woodworking, garages and bakeries -- have already
been identified as essentially meeting the criteria and the approach of the
proposed project. Employment and value added effects are favorable, repeater
operations seem feasible, satisfactory vocational training exists and OPEI
can provide effective technical assistance. The clothing sub-sector currently
appears unsuitable for the program of repeater sub-projects, since each enter-
prise has to be designed on the basis of a specific market demand, and this
branch has so far been considered ineligible for the proposed project. Feasible
individual sub-projects in this branch can, however, be financed on a case-
by-case basis. Major sub-project characteristics for the three identified
branches are given in para. 47.
Project Financing
46.       Finance for sub-projects of the proposed Bank loan is expected
to consist of the following principal elements (as a percentage of sub-project
cost):
(i) long-term loans from CCI financed from
proceed9 of the Bank loan ................ up to 60%
(ii.) equity contributions........................ at least 10%
(iii)  rediscountable medium-term loans from finan-
cial institutions possibly including CCI .... up to 30%
(iv) long-term subordinated loans from
SONAFIts Participation Fund .............up to 15%.
The 60 percent CCI loan figure represents an approximation of the estimated
overall foreign exchange component but in Bome cases it may also contain some
local cost financing. A ceiling of 60 percent long-term CCI financing and a
minimum equity participation of 10 percent by sub-borrowers are conditions
of sub-loans (Section 1.02 (a) and (c) of the Loan Agreement).



47.   On the basis of the OPEI branch studies and estimates for individual
sub-projects, major project characteristics can be summarized as follows:
Number of     Average Invest-      Total
Enterprises    ment Cost per     Investment     Bank          Additional
Branches    Promoted        Enterrise         Cost        Financing       Employment
(No. of Jobs)
----------- (US$ 1,000)-
Woodworking    24              94            2,250          1,350             480
Bakeries       20             100            2,000          1,250             240
Garages        35              39            1,350            750             260
Other
Branches      50              75            3,750          2,2J              6
Total      129              72            9,35o          5,6O0           1,630
OPEI Reorganization
48.        In line with Bank recommendations on reorganization made during
project preparation, an Ebcecutive Committee (Comite de Direction) has been
formed to set up OPEI's policies and priorities and determine and periodi-
cally review OPEI's work program. It comprises seven members, i.e. OPEI's
General Manager, its Director of Operations, one representative each of the
Ministries of Planning, Economy and Finance, and Commerce, a State Control-
ler and the Director-General of CCI. The Executive Committee will meet
every two months and is expected to play a major role in streamlining and
monitoring OPEI's activities.   Moreover. a procedure of cloc coor(lination
between OPEI and Gui is being implemented.
49.       The most significant change in the organization is the creation of
a Department of Operations which will be the center of OPEI's future activi-
ties. This Department will be responsible for sector work and will have
specialized units for major branches as well as a general unit for non-
repeat operations in other branches. Within this Department, a special
staff group (Synthese et Appui) will provide general assistance to the spe-
cialized units for initial sector studies, design of promotion programs, and



- 15 -
special services such as legal and marketing advice. The special staff
group will consist mainly of UNIDO experts and their Ivorian counterparts.
The new organizational set-up--essentially in line with Bank recommendations
made during project identification and preparation--represents a definite
improvement over the previous arrangement.
50.       For the first time since its establishment, OPEI's budget for 1975
has been tailored according to the agency's specific objectives and programs.
The bulk of the budgetary funds are earmarked for specific programs in the
Department of Operations. OPElts previous accounts have now been cleared and
a full-time financial controller, designated by the Ministry of Economyn and
Finance, will control expenses and the execution of the budget in general.
These new arrangements are a major improvement over OPEI's past financial
accounting and planning.
Technical Assistance
51.       UNIDO, under a project with the Bureau de Developpement
Industriel (BDI) that started in early 197h, has shifted most of its assist-
ance now to OPEI. Eight experts, to be provided under the project and allo-
cated to the special staff group within the Department of Operations, will
devote about 80 percent of their time to OPEI. In addition, volunteers from
Germany and Holland are expected to work within the ITNIM project for OPEI
specialized units.  UNIDO experts have already assisted OPEI in preparing the
branch studies and in implementing the reorganization.   In line with the
Bank's recommendation and in agreement with the parties concerned, most
future technical assistance will be provided by technicians assigned to the
specialized units. Furthermore, about one-third of the other foreign experts
attached to OPEI Headquarters in Abidjan have been reassigned to these
specialized units in accordance with their technical qualifications. Some
experts will remain in the special staff group or in non-specialized units
and will continue to provide general assistance, but they will gradually be
replaced by technicians attached to specialized units.
52.       Arn essential element for the ultimate success of the new scheme is
the training of Ivorian counterparts who will progressively replace foreign
experts. Such a plan has already been established for a project by the
Association Frangaise de Cooperation, de Formation et de Promotion Artisanale
(AFCOPA) in Man and Bouake, and it is planned that by the end of 1977 Ivorians
trained in the field or in AFCOPA's training center will have taken over the
functions of foreign experts. The new OPEI-UNTIDO program for branch studies also
provides for progressive replacement of foreign experts by Ivorian counterparts.



- 16 -
The Proposed Bank Loan
53        Amount. Based on the operation programs outlined in the preceding
paragraphs, a loan of US$ 5.6 million would cover up to 60 percent of the invest-
ment requirements of eligible SSEs; US$ 3.4 million thereof would be earmarked
for projects in identified branches and up to US$ 2.2 million for projects in
unidentified branches. In case OPEI's branch program is implemented faster tharn
anticipated, part of these US$ 2.2 million could be reallocated to identifed
branches.
54.       Definition of Final Borrowers. The loan would be onlent to small-scale
enterprises defined as follows:TaT enterprises in the secondary or tertiary
sectors; (b) enterprises having total assets of below CFAF 40 million (US$ 200,000),
including assets financed under the project; (c) enterprises with at least 51
percent of the equity owned by Tvorian nationals and managed by Ivoriarns, in line
with the Governmentts Ivorianization policy.
55_       Sub-Loan Procedures. Small sub-loans of less than CFAF 1 million
(us$ 5,000) would be excluded from Bank financing.  For the identified branches,
sub-projects would automatically be authorized for Bank financing once we have
approved both OPEI's branch study and the first "model" project. For the unidentified
branches, CCI's sub-loans above CFAF 10 million (Us$ 50,000) would require Bank
approval and the aggregate ceiling for these loans would be US$ 1.1 million (Section
2.02(c)(ii) of the Loan Agreement). To induce CCI and OPEI to concentrate on repeater
operations in identified branches, it was agreed that no more than US$ 0.8 million
be committed per year outside identified branches (para. 2 (ii) of Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement).
56.       Disbursements.  Initial disbursements would follow normal DFC procedures
and be made on the basis of CCI sub-loan disbursements. Given CCI's good control
of disbursements, experience with early disbursements might lead to simplification
of withdrawal procedures by submission of periodic summary statements with back-up
documentation retained at CCI. The Bank would reimburse CCI for its disbursements
for long-term sub-loans of up to 60 percent of total sub-project cost. Project
supervision missions would check CCI's disbursements performance and procedures.
57.       Repayment.  The terms and conditions of the proposed Bank loan would in
most             thspec  Eose normally applied to development finance companies projects.
However, given the unusually large number of small sub-projects to be financed, it
was agreed that a fixed amortization schedule would be most suitable and the loan
would be repaid over 15 yeers including three years grace. This means that CCI
could roll over the loan funds about once; the funds would be relent in the SSE
sector (Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement), and it was agreed that CCI would
apply the same criteria as outlined above.



-1 7-
58,       Terms of Sub-Loans. The terms of sub-loans would vary according
to the type of project. In no case, however, would maturities exceed 15
years including an appropriate period of grace. The interest rate to sub-
borrowers would be 12 percent per annum. The interest rate would allow a
spread of 3.5 percent to CCI to cover administrative expenses, risk and
some profit (about 0.6 percent). Given the technical assistance provided by
OPEI for project implementation and follow-up and assuming an average default
rate of 5 percent, the spread necessary to fully cover expected costs and
risks is estimated to be 2.9 percent. Part of the spread would be transferred
to the Guarantee Fund as a fee if CCI uses the facilities of the Fund. An on-
lending rate of 12 percent compares with a rate of 11 percent for BIDI's long-
term loans and of 11.5 percent -- including a foreign exchange fee of 1 percent --
for CCI's long-term loans for the Bank-financed Tourism Development Project. Sub-
borrowers are expected to assume the full foreign exchange risk under the project.
However, if this proves to be a disincentive for the SSE sub-borrowers, the govern-
ment has indicated that it would be prepared to assume the risk with an appropriate
fee. In view of the economic and financial conditions in the country and the
structure of interest rates in the West African Monetary Union, of which the Ivory
Coast is a member, the on-lending arrangements are considered reasonable.
59.       Procurement.  The equipment to be procured under the loan would be
small and mostly imported, but purchased from local distributors.  Most projects
would involve financing the construction of buildings, and the Ivory Coast's
construction industry seems to be efficient and competitive. Under its normal
procurement procedures, CCI will ensure that suitable goods are procured at
reasonable prices.
60.       Supervision and Project Monitoring. Supervision missions will be sent
every six months during the project's commitment period to review actual results
and to gain more operational experience in this field. Furthermore, CCI will send
quarterly reports on approved, disbursed and outstanding loans, and provide details
on such key data as other resources, cost of financing, and guarantees obtained.
CCI and OPEI will also submit annual progress reports on projects financed in
individual branches to determine what has been achieved and whether lending should
continue to these branches, and suggest new arrangements, if any, for financing,
technical assistance, training, or other promotion activities.
Credit de la Cete dtIvoire
61.       CCI is a multipurpose development bark founded in 1955.  At present,
the Government holds 75 percent of the share capital, Caisse Centrale de Co-
op6ration Economique (CCCE) 17 percent, and the Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) the remaining 8 percent.  CCI finances housing,
industry, trade, artisan and small household equipment, and automobiles.   It
provides short-, medium-, and long-term loans, equity participations and guaraltees
to private or public corporations and individuals. CCI has its headquarters in
Abidjan and four branch offices in Bouake, Daloa, Korhogo, and Abengourou. A
fifth office is planned in Man. CCI was selected as the appropriate financial



- 18 -
intermediary for the proposed Bank loan in view of its experience in lending
to SSEs and its reasonable geographic coverage of the country. Moreover, the
choice of CCI will permit the streamlining and monitoring of public promotion
efforts in the SSE sector by linking financial assistance to technical assistance
from OPEI.  CCI was already selected as the financial channel for the Bank-
financed Tourism Development.Project.
62.       Organization.   CCIT's Board of Directors consists of nine Government
appointed officials, two representatives from CCCE and one representative from
BCEAO. CCI is competently managed by a General Manager who is appointed by
the Board. The institution has three main departments: (i) the Financial and
Administrative Department, in charge of accounting and administration (ii) the
Operations Department, consisting of three divisions -- the Technical Division
which supervises construction financed by CCI; the Excecution Division which handles
legal documents, disbursements and guarantees; and the Credit Division which pre-
pares appraisals of all loans; and (iii) a department headed by the Inspector
General administering CCIts four branch offices. A technical adviser, recruited and
partly financed under the Bank's Tourism Project, will also assist CCI in the appraisa
of sub-projects, introduction of follow-up procedures, and coordination with
OPEI.
63.       Resources.  On September 30, 1974, CCI's capital and reserves amounted
to CFAF 2.3 billion (US$ 11.5 million). The share capital will be increased in
late 1975 by 0.9 billion CFA francs (US$ 4.5 million). Total borrowings accounted
for CFAF 18.7 billion (uS$ 9365 million) and included funds from CCCE, CAA, USAID
and BCEAO. Loans from CCCE are long-term, loans from CAA are short-, medium- and
long-term, and the funds from UTSAID represent a long-term loan for Ivorian enter-
prises. BCEAO provides medium- and short-term rediscount facilities, currently
at an interest rate of 5.5 percent.
64.       Portfolio, Profitability and Audit. Loans outstanding on. September 30,
1974 totaled CFAF 13.6 billion (US$ 6T.0 million). Housing accounted for 57
percent, industry and commerce for 17 percent, community facilities for 9 percent
and consumer financing for 11 percent. Four percent of all loans are classified
as "doubtful" and 2 percent are in litigation; adequate provisions are made for
such loans. CCI has also a general reserve fund of about CFAF 0.5 billion (US$2.5
million). Like most public development banks in French-speaking Africa, CCI is not
concerned about showing'.;a profit after provisions but tries to maintain the
solidity of its balance sheet; thus, income in excess of a nominal level is trans-
ferred to a tax-free general reserve account. CCI's average margin between its
yield on all loans and its cost of resources has remained between 3.0 and 3.5
percent. In the past, CCI has not been subject to an independent audit but its
accounts have been regularly examined by representatives of the largest share-
holders. As a condition of 9oard presentation of the Tourism Development Project,
CCT's accounts were audited for the first time for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1974. Although this first aucdit uncovered problems in accounting pro-
cedures, resulting primarily from the bank's rapid recent growth, the basic
soundness of CCI was not called into question; CCI will rectify these problems,
in cooperation with the auditors, in the near future.
65.       Prospects.  To finance its future operations, CCI will require net
borrowings of CF ll billion (IJS$ 55.0 million) through FY79. Net profit is
projected to remain nominal and the debt equity ratio, currently 5:1, will be
limited to 8-1/3:1 which corresponds to BCEAO guidelines for development banks.



- 19 -
For the purpose of the debt-equiwty ratio, it has been agreed that only the
debts of those subsidiaries with activities similar or complementary to
CCITs would be consolidated (Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement).   Given the
composition of its lending and CCIT's competent management, the institution
should remain financially sound throughout the life of the loan.
Economic Evaluation and Justification
66.        The achievement of the objectives of the proposed project will offer
substantial economic and social benefits to the Ivory Coast, including not only
adequate return on the investments of small indigenous enterprises -- financial
rates of return for sub-projects in the identified branches are estimated to be
25 percent or more-- but also opportutities for the development of local manage-
ment capacity, the broadening of business ownership, and basic training of large-
ly unskilled labor.  In addition, the project will help support priority governl-
ment policies and create employment, especially in urban areas where unemploy-
ment tends to be high, improve income distribution and achieve a more balanced
regional development.  It will also have important institution-building effects
on the two principal public agencies of the promotion scheme, OPEI and CCI, andl
strengthen the latterTs appraisal capacity.
67.       Based on the findings of OPEI branch studies, some direct economic
benefits can be estimated as follows: a $5.6 million loan would generate total
investment of about $9.4 million.   This would permit the establishment or
extension of some 130 small-scale enterprises and the creation of about 1,600
jobs at an average investment cost per job of around $5,700.   Additional annual
value added is estimated to be on the order of at least CFAF 1.5 billion (US$7.5
million).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMERTS A1D AUTHORITIES
68.       The following documents are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately: (i) the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and CCI;
(ii) the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and
the Bank; (iii) the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
h (iii) of the Articles of Agreement; and (iv) the text of a draft Resolution
approving the proposed Loan.
69.       The draft Agreements conform generally to the normal pattern for
Loans to development finance companies. Features of the Loan Agreement
of special interest are referred to in paragraphs 46, 55, 57, and 65 of this
report.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMNDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. YcNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 7, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 pages
ON=! DATA -      V   0AT
323.750   kot                                      ~~~~~~~~(Mid4972)
323.750  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~~~~~5.0              ilin26 /a                                       Per kaNai arabl.a indL
W    ME CAPt    MS* (ATL88 NMaI)                                  3.50           34.0 4t         380 4L        430 a          4.90 4k
8krae          pr hcead                                      50              4.6 49AL        3674a        35 4a.         286
Domde death rate (ps 8kuad                                      2d3g,                     ~     1 
Wnant mertality rate (per thousand live births)                18I"                            106            39             18 4,
Life aeprOtency at birth (Fears)                                35              ;a aL           56            59             6
Oros rpmuatonrat /                                       3 2             3                : Z           .7 42,        2.2 ILL
Populatlon powth rate L                                         3.!3.                                       1 2.  h          . 
Population gowth rats - urban                                                    934                                               .
Agsernature (piuosati)
kand                                                                                        50a           525
Age depndmeny rtio                                                                                                          0. 1  7 
over  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~. Lh                                             1.14
Economic dependency sei ic                                      S.;2.11 
Urban population as percent of total                             2    a         2                4/t          2      v       6     f
Family pining.     NI Of acoeptore comulativa (thouej            22.             8              101 /.        290           979 1  f.
No. of users (% of married eionen                         .                  128           220             L 97
EW     Mh   r force (thousands)                                1,900 1         2,600           1,500 4       2,900 L61      4,600
Percentage employed in agriculture                            86 4-           78              53           1,l7d~
Percentage unemployed                                        9.99                                               d           4
oan  o  naio-Iincm   eeived by highesrt 5%               29 430                                       286. 
Pecnto   naina 0ncm   recived by higheat 20%               55              57 4           .
=______ 1__     Income___ r. 
Percent of ntioa     inco    rcived by lowest 20%                 7              1
Percent of national income received by lowest 4.0%              18              10                            1
% owAd by awal2ast 10% of owners                                ...0.57j
RK A MP.M .1cian                             ~~~~~    ~~22,00  Ik 11.0         5,950         3,860     en.  3,170
PopAultion per curaing person                                2,250.         21.40              730 ~_      1,080 /da    10,230oL
Populatice per hospital bed                                  1,050   sk        680             4.10  ad      330          2,980
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirements ZS               91/n           108              86            91. 4af       11 L i
Per capita protoin supPly, total (grass per dmyT&6              52              60              51.           49 Ld.of       68
Of thick, animal and pulse                                                    le 181g         11.o          20 =d          31 Z
Death raet 1-4. yeear.                                         ..                              1.5 4~.         6/as           3 L
W   d    prinary school enrollment ratio                     4.6             77             107 gg.       8~9 4          9
Adjusted     scrayschool enrolmnt ratio                          2              U1              201g          3   d.         S.
Years of lih  1lin  Provided, first and second level            1.3             13              13            13/            12
Vocational enrollment as % of eec. achool enrollment            13                              34             3             16
Adul-t literacy rate %                                            9 /U."        20 Z&%h         55 gg~        89             73A
M-rg      No. of pereons per room (uwban)                       2.5 Lak         *.2.7 /                       2.53 /m        1.6/a
Percent of occupied units without piped water                  ...85 /S                                        5   .         51~
Accese to electricity (en % of total population)                 145L.&A~M                      2.4     7 t   1.3
Percent of ftral population onoceotad to elecotricity          ...                              .30
I    lwrei er  per 1000 population                         17              184             714           1.2 4        103 
Paeanger care per 1000 popuaAtion                                3              17b             15 /b         25 /bd          3 
Electric power conenapton (kth p.c.)                            21             l143            188          1.1             823
Newsprint conmumption p.c. kg per year                        0.03             0.24            0.1 4         3.0            17I
Notes,  Figures refer either to the latest period. or to             aacount of sovirte ortr,Ocye~a                         .
the latest years.   Latest parioda refer in principle toitiuin                      yaeade        of natiomal populations.
the year 1956-60 or 1966-70, the latest yea".r ip Prn             &  P          =teA  atard   (rqumete) for all countrie  aa sagtab-
dp toi 19,60 and 1970.                                            liehed by UML Ronmaidc Raaearch Servic    providefor aminiume-
4   The Per Capita GNP estimate Is at corkit prices for               allomano. of 60 geme of total protein per day, and 20 grm     of
year  other then 1960,calculated by the oame conversion           aniaal and pulse protein, of which 10 grass ahould be   nimal
technique as the 1972 Worid Bank AWee.                           protein.   Theme atandards are soewhat bmw     than thoas. of 75
L.Averoge nusabr of daughters per woman of reproductive             grams of total protein and 23 geams of anima protein aa en
age.                                                             aveage for the vwnrd, proposed by FAD in the Third World Food
4 Population growth rtates re, for the decodea ending inSuvy
1960 and 197.                                                 4j Som   studiss have xuggee"ted that erude death rates 'of chlUdren
14k  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to populia.         ege 1 through A. my be mood an a first approiniatin index of
tin of &age   15-64. for age dependency ratio and to labor       ianintritico.
force of agma 15-61 for economic dependency ratio.           Li  Perentage enrolled of correspondinug population of school age
LI AD reference atendards represent pi*eiologioal r*-              an defined for each country.
quiremente for normal activity and health, taking
R atiesate I    4  19721        1965.70;    /d Wast Malaysia;     4o  19711    If  UK estimate;    &g  1969,    /h  1960-62w
4  Real growth rate;   41.  197-58;     4   Over 1.,000 population;   4L  1956-661    LaOver 10,000 population;       4n  1960-691
4.   Cities end town.;     4  African population only;     &   15-59 years;    4E  60 years and over;     Lo  Ratio of poplastion
under 15 and 60 and over to Population 15-59,      4t  1966,   &   19651    &   (keatted area of 10,000 or sure inhabitants;
41   1964;    a   1959, poPulation;    4   Income recipient;    4L Euseholda;      Zr    Covering 4..5 all-lon hectaren of private
land, ecludIng 0.8 million hectares In publIc     *are    p end 2.1 millon hectares of collective lad;        /ab  1963;
c  Number onthe register, not all working in the country;             GDovwrost only;     4_1968i      Zp_L 1961.-66;
In 1cludesoverage students;      1g&   Definition unknon          15   ears an  over;    al   Read sand write;        156-67
Urban end ruml; 1 gg. Percentage of dwelling      with electerical lighting;    ZIA. Percentage of houaing;       an  Registered
only;   4a    Inside or cutaide;    Ln   1961;   4gg   Refer to houaing unite;    Lag   Iaid. only.
The Republic of Chine (Taiwan) baa been selected as objective     cumntry because of its high rate of growth coupled with
an improvemet of the income distribution, its muccmea in the divered±ftcation of production end exports, the dominant
role of aeporte in its economic development, the high bvel of domestic eavings and the ion rate of urban unesploy-
aant deapite a rurml ezDdus.
R5 April 28, 1975



AN:NEX I,
Pg 2of3 Pages
ECONOMIC       LOVEPE1TDT
(Amounts in m1rl-ion's of U.S.Idoflar
Actual                          Projected              lES5-    1970 -     1970 -    1975 -    1965     1975     1980
l~  / 170     1-972        1973      j        19 0       1970     1972      1975      1960        -
NATIONAL ACCOWITS
3-YearAvqeragatl967 -1959 Prige s & ;Exchang         Ra&tes      Average Anual Growth Rates             As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product               I,U481              T70          180       2,02     2,1            .      .          .         .0      108.3    100.6    103.8
Gains from Terms of Trade(+           - 80      - 19       - 57        - 39      - 12     - 98          .                                     8.3     -0.6    - 3.8
Gross Domestic Income                --        17l-r     rtflr        177F      27017    r   -rv      8.8     5.5       6.5        5.3     TOUTIP      T0t   I=rn
Import (iool. NFS)                     331       572       656          717       846    1,134       11.6     7.1       8.1       6.0       -34.1    -42.0    -43.3
Exports    '1 (import capacity)        350       597        644         701       814:.  1,088       11.3     3.9       6.4        6.0       36.2     40.4     41.6
Resource Gap                                                                                4tT rT  .T-~n  .              .         .         27       r-6    r777
Consumption Expenditures               753     1,138     1,309        1,429     1,664    2,147        8.6     7.2       7.9        5.2       7 7 .7   82.5     82.0
Investment    '1 (tool, stocks)        196       311       341          349       38&      515        9 .7    4.7       4.3       6.0        20.2     19.1     19.7
Domestic Savings                       216       336       329          332       353      470        9.3    -1,0       1.0        5.9       22.3     17.5     18.0
National Savings                       169       266       244          248       269      350        9.5    -4.2       0.2        5.4       17.4     13.3     13.4
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                As Percent of Total
Irnports
Feels and related materials           13         18        29          40       132     230         6 .7    27.0     49.0      11.8         5.1      11.4     10.7
Other goods                          242       414       470          741     1.021   1.911        11.3      6.6     19.8       13.4       94.9      88.6     89.3
Total Retch. Imports  (elf)  25       432       49           71      .53    2,141         11.1      7.5     21.5      13.2      100.0o     1005.0   100.0
Emports
Mate agricultural products       I
(cccl. fuels)2/                  210       333       359         581        745  1,108          9.7      3.8     17.5       8.3       73. 7      57.3     46.0
Other agiutrlproducts
(cccl. fuels)                     18        28        48          82       140     225          9.2     31.0     38.0      10.0        6.3       10.8      9.4
Fuels asd related materials            -          3        14          19        31      64           -    115.0     78.0        4.6         -        3.9       2.7
MeoufascL-d geuda                      25        63        77         121       241     628        20.0      10.5    31.0       21.1        8.8      18.5     26.1
Other  noods                           32        69        88          88       124     381         16.6     12.9    12.4       25.2       11.2        9.5    15.8
Total  ereb.Import  fob)    285       49        586           91     1,301  2,406         11.7      8.7     21. 3     13.1      tO-.0o     To-O0.0  100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                         Average 1967-69- 100
Export Price Index                    78.3     103.7     102.8        155.7     197.6   271.8       5.8     -1.0     13.8      6.6
Import Price Index                   100.2     108.7     129.6        155.6     200.6   292.6       1.6      3. 6    13.6      7.3
Terms of Trade Index                  78.1      95.4       79.3       100.0      96.1    92.9       4.1     -8.8      0.2     - 0. 7
E-xports Volume Indes                 86.3     113.4     135.2        170.9     196.6   267.0       5.6      9.2     11.6      6.3
vALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                Annual Data at 1*(7- 69 Prices and Exchange Rates                 Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
Agriculture                          375       410       457          467       519     651         1.8      5.6      4.6      4.6         35.8      25.6    24.0
Industry and Mlining                 1 7 9     323       421          466       542     868        12.5     14.1     10.9      9.8         17.1      26,7    32.0
Service                              494       773       816          862     _ 966  1.193          9.4      2.8      4.6      4.3         47. 1     47.7    44.0
Total GDP                          1,048     1,506     1,694       1,795     2,027   2,712          7.5      6.0      6.1      6.0        100.0     100.0   100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                                As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                     213       301       363          386       436     624         7.2      9.8      8.2      7.0          20.3    21.5     23.0
Current Expmenditure s               155       233       269          300       355     488         8.5      7. 5     8.5      7.0          14.8    17.5     18.0
Buadgetary Savings                    58        68        94           86        81     136         3.2     17.6      6.9      7.0           5.5     4.0      5.0
Other Public Sector                   24        56        45           48        jo     108        18.5    -10.5    - 2.2     16.6           2.3     2.4      4.0
Public Sector Investment              90       I71       204          229       263     361        13.7      9.2      9.0      6.6           8.5    13.0     13.3
US $ million
CURRENT FXEDIEDlTU`RE DETAILS                     Actual  -      PreiSm.    Est.     Proj).       DETAIL OR                                 At end 19 68   P and ER
(As % Total Current Expend.)               1965      19 72      19173     19 74    19 80         PUBLIC SECTOR                                Plan 1971-75
Education                                   175      2.          72       28.0     250          INVESTMENIT PROGIRAM                                         7. of total
Other Soci-1 Sevices        10.2     10.5       13.3      10.5     10.5         Agricultural development                       349                31
Public works, Urbasication, etc.            12.8      7.0       12.0       12.0     12.0         Economic infrastructure                       515
Other Economic Services                      8.5     12.4        11.8      12.0     12.0- Power                                   134                      12
Administration end Defense                  36.7     24.6       22.,9      24.0     25.0- Industry and Mining                      69                       6
('ther                                      14.3     19.8        15.8      13.5     15.5- Transport and Telecom.                  221                      20
Total Current Expenditures                 100.0    1003.0     100o.0    100.0    100.0            -Urban Development             137                      12
Education and Culture                          101                  9
Health and Social Develop.                      53                  5
SELECTED INDITCATORS                                  1960-       1966 -    1970-    1975 -        Administration infrastructure                   46                  4
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)                1965        1971      1975     19B0          Studies and Researcb                            13                1_
Average ICOP                                            ..       245        3.1-7    3.1-6                                                      1,123                1O00
Imoport Elasticity                                     ..        1.33      1.33     1.00           PINANCING
Marginal Domestic Savings Nate                         ..        0.23      0.03     0.20                Public Sector Savings                    557                  49.6
Marginal National Savinigs Rate                        ..        0.21      0.01     0.14                 program aid counterpart
Poreign Project Aid                      566                 50.4
IABoR FRCE ANDI                                    Total Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Worke      (197    69   Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUJT PER WORKEIR                  Is Thousaods         %of Total            19 63   5.1        In U.S.Dolla.rs       Percn     fAeae             1965 -72
19 65       19_ 72   19 6~5      19,22     Growth Rate          1965       1972         1965       1972       Growth Rate
Agriculture                      1,623        1 ,79 7    85.7       82.4          1.5               231        254        41.7       32.7            1.4
Industry                           143         213        7.6        9.8         5.9             1,252      1,977        226.0      254.4            6.8
Service                            127          171       6.7        7.8         4.4             3,890      4,772        702.2      614.2            3.0
Total                            17            w1T     107         TM707U        27'f                                     07        TtO               .
so.t aplcbe              -nil or ~neglgbe                          1I/ actual values instead of 3-Fear averages
not available          --less tha     half the                     2/ cocoa, coffee, wood.
smallest unit shown



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNIAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                 Estimated                             Projected                      Growth Rate
1969    1970   1971    1972    1973     1974        1976     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980    1975-1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)            612.1  640.0   676.1   781.3  1127.8  1,491.9    1,591.3   1,925.8   2,176.8  2,437.1   2,740.2   3,215.2     15.1
Imports (incl. NFS)           536.3   625.2   691.5  785.5  1110.9   1 388.3    1,629.2   1.988.0  2,264.6   2,573.3   2,916.7  3,306.1      15.2
Resource Balance (X-M)          75.8   14.8   -15.4   -4.2    16.9     103.6      -37.9     -62.2     -87.8   -136.2    -176.5    -90.9
Interest (net)                  -8.4   -6.8   -11.2   -16.9  -22.1     -32.8      -43.0     -62.4    -82.5    -108.2    -140.7    -179.0     33.0
Direct Investment Income       -30.5  -30.3   -42.4   -41.0  -52.7     -60.2      -55.0     -60.0     -65.0    -70.0     -75.0     -80.0      7.8
Workers' Remittances           -36.3  -42.5   -52.5   -68.3  -86.9     -94.0      -90.0    -100.0   -108.0    -115.0    -120.0   -125.0       6.8
Current Transfers (net)         4.7    13.6    15.8    13.3   18.7      19.0       20.0      23.0     25.0      28.0      31.0     34.0      11.2
Balance on Current Accounts      5.3   -51.2  -105.7  -117.1  -126.1   -64.4     -205.9    -261.6    -318.3   -401.4    -481.2    -440.9     16.5
Private Direct Investment         -    26.0    12.0     9.1   15.0      20.0       25.0      28.0     32.0      37.0      45.0     55.0      17.1
Official Capital Grants         16.0   17.1    18.0    19.3   19.8      24.0       26.0      28.0      30.0     32.0      34.0      36,0      6.7
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                 48.8   76.5   107.4    86.1  215.8     212.3      326.4     357.4     435.9    545.9     651.3     647.0     14.7
-Repayments                  -21.3  -27.0   -29.6   -38.1  -43.7     -61.4      -79.4    -109.1    -133.4   -162.0    -191.8    -232.1     24.0
Net Disbursements               27.5   49.5    77.8    48.0  172.1     150.9      247.0     248.3    302.5     383.9     459.5    414.9      10.9
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements                 ...     ...            ...     ...     ...         ...      ...       ...      ...
-Repayments                   ...                ...                        ..             ..       ...  . 
Net Disbursements              ...     ...    ...     ...     ...     ...         ...      ...       ...
Capital Transactions n.e.i.    -11.7   -7.6   -133    -33.0  -71.3     -83.6
Change in Net Reserves         -37.1   -33.8   11.8    73.7    9.5     -46.9                                              Actual
Gross Reserves                  71.4  104.9    89.4    87.2   88.4      65.7                                   1970    1971    1972   1973
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                        Public Debt Out. & Disbursed  255.2   354.4   394.5  565.7
Official Grants & Grant-like     ..     ..
Interest on Public Debt       11.5   16.0    19.3    27.2
Public M&LT Loans                                                                Repayments on Public Debt     27.0    29.4   38.4    42.9
IBRD                          17.1   18.5    27.5    17.5    8.4               Total Public Debt Service     38.5    45.4    57.7   70.1
IDA                             -      -       -       -     7.5               Other Debt Service (net)       ..
Other                           -      -       -       -      -                 Total Debt Service (net)
Other Multilateral            13.3     2.8    5.9    16.9   28.3
Governments                   14.8   21.8    16.6    55.3   29.5              Burden on Export Earnings (7.)
Suppliers                      8.6   12.8    26.9    33.2   53.5                Public Debt Service           6.0     6.7     7.3    6.6
Financial Institutions        12.4    7.7    43.1    62.1   126.8              Total Debt Service             ..      ..
Bonds                           -     5.4      -       -     8.6               TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.        ..      .
Public Loans n.e.i.                        -           -      -
Total Public M&LT Loans         66.2   69.0   120.0   185.0  262.6             Average Terms of Public Debt
Int. as 7. Prior Year DO&D     5.6    6.3     5.4     6.9
Amort. as 7. Prior Year DO&D  13.0    11.5   10.8    10.9
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1973
Disbursed Only         Percent         IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
EXTERNAL DEBT                                                                          - as % Public Debt O&D     1.7     3.0    4.5     5.1
World Bank                                   28.9                 5.1                 as % Public Debt Service  0.8     1.5     2.6    3.4
IDA                                            _
Other Multilateral                           30.0                 5.3          IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Governments                                 202.4                35.8                as % Public Debt O&D        -       -       -      -
Suppliers                                   110.9                19.6                as 7. Public Debt Service
Financial Institutions                      167.7                29.6
Bonds                                        25.9                 4.6
Public Debts e.e.i.
Total Public M&LT Debt                      565.8               100.0
other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                             e staff estimate
not available                              - nil or negligible
not available separately, but             --  less than half the smallest unit shown
included in total






Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GORP OP1ATIONS IN IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of June 30, 1975)
USg mions - Amount
Loan or                                                      (less cancellations)
Credit No.     Year      Borrower        uRpOsek                   IDA   Undisbursed
542-IVC        1968     Ivory Coast     Roads              5.8                  000
611-IVC        1969     SODEPALM-       Oil Palm           3.3                  0.2
PALMIVOIRE
612-IVC                 PALMNIINUSThIE- Palm Oil Mill      4.8                  0.0
PALMIVOIRE
613-IYC        1969     SODEPALM        Oil Palm &         9.0                  0.6
Coconut
667-IVC        1970     Ivory Coast     Education         11.0                  5.5
667-2-IVC      1975     Ivory Coast     Education Sup.      2.2                 2.2
686-IVC        1970     Ivory Coast     Cocoa              5.3                  1.7
759-IVC        1971     PALMINWSTMZ-    Pala Oil Mill       1.9                 0.0
PALMIVOIRE
760-IVC        12if     SODEPALM        Oil Palm I         5.1                  2.1
Coconut
761-IVC        1971     Ivory Coast     Roads              20.5                 4.4
837-IVC        1972     Ivory Coast     Roads             17.5                 12.9
938-IVC        1973     SOCATCI         Rubber              8.I                6.7
406-IVC        1973     Ivory Coast     Roads                        7.5        7.0
981-IVC        1974     Ivory Coast     Telecommunica-    25.0                 25.0
tions
1036-IVC 2     1974     Ivory Coast     Oil Palm III       2.6                  2.6
1069-IVC 2     1975     Ivory Coast     Cocoa II          20.0                20.0
1076-IVC -/    1975     Ivory Coast     Abidjan Sewer-     9.0                 9.0
age
1077-IVC       1975     Ivory Coast     Cotton            31.0                31.0
1124-IVC 1/    1975     Ivory Coast     Tourism            9.7                  9.7
1125-IVC T/    1975     Ivory Coast     Education II       5.0                  5.0
TOTAL                                         197.1      7: 3'5.
of which has been repaid                    1.2      0.0
TOTAL now outstanding                         195.9      7.5
Amount sold                         0.4
of which has been repaid        0.2          .2                 -
195.7
TOTAL now held by Bank & IDA                             7.5
TOTAL undisbursed                             138.6      7.0      145.6
1/ Not yet effective.   (1036-IVC became effective on July 29, 1975.)



ANNEX II
Page 2 of. 5 pages
B.   Statement of fFC Investments
(as of June 30, 1975)
Year      Obligor                 Type of       Loan   US Dollars     Total
Business              Equitv
1965      Banque Ivoirienne       Industrial      -     204,000       204,000
de Developpement      Development
Industriel            Bank
Total gross commitments                 -     204,000       204,000
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid
Total commitments now
held by IFC                            -     204,000       204,000



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
C.  Projects in Execution
Ln. No. 611, 612,    First Oil Palm and Coconut Projects; Three loans for a
613, 759 and 7o07   tot-IoWS      7-1 million of June 13, 1969; Clsing Date:
December 31- 1975. Second Oil Palm and Coconut Projects:
Two loans for a total of US 7.0 million of June 22, 1971;
Closing Dates: June 30, 1975 and November 30, 1977.
These projects are being implemented satisfactorily, and disbursement
is proceeding normally. The oil mills financed in these projects processed
about 220,000 tons of fruits in 1974. The planting programs are proceeding
well.
Ln. No. 667          First Education Project: US$11.0 million Loan of April 27,
1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Implementation of this project was slow, especially in the initial
years. This resulted from (i) delays in the decision making process, espe-
cially for the selection and appointment of consulting architects; (ii) the
complexity of consultations between international and bilateral donors on the
specifications of the Instructional Television Production Center; and (iii)
uncertainties about the project description which culminated in its renegoti-
ation and amendment in 1971. The amendment consisted of (a) the reduction
from 11 to 10 of the number of educational institutions to be constructed
under the project; (b) the deletion of Bank financing of capitalized interest
except for the amount already disbursed; and (c) reallocation of the proceeds
of the loan to take account of modified architectural standards. The Executive
Directors were notified of these changes.   (See Memoranduim to the Executive
Directors R71-2)46 of November 3, 1971). Since then, the project implementation
has substantially improved, construction work for all project schools has been
completed and the Thools will be in operation by October 1975, except the
technology institute at Abidjan and the ITV complex at Bouak6, which will be
completed respectively in January and June 1976. The Closing Date has been
extended to June 30, 1977.
Ln. No. 667-2       Supplementary Financing for the First Education Project:
US$2.2 million Loan of January 17, 1975; Closing Date:
Jlne 30, 1977.
At appraisal of the First Education Project, the US dollar was
worth 247 CFA francs. When the project cost was recalculated in October
1971, the exchange rate was US1 = CFAF 277. Since then the dollar dropped
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ATNEX II
Page a of 5 pages
substantially to about 225 CFA francs in January 1975. In the fall of 1974
the Government requested supplementary financing to offset the increase in
the project's dollar cost due to currency realignments.
Ln. No. 686          Cocoa Project: US$7.5 million Loan of June 5, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The Cocoa Loan has been amended to reduce the number of hectares to
be rehabilitated. Difficulties arose in supervising large numbers of farmer:
who used project inputs to treat non-project cocoa. The Government agreed to
substantially reduce the size of the rehabilitation program. (See Memorandum
to the Executive Directors R73-74 of April 13, 1973.)   The project is proceed-
ing satisfactorily except for administrative problems which have delayed the
submission of requests for reimbursement. However, administration of this
and the second project (Ln. 1069-IVC) have been combined and an estimated
3,200 ha of cocoa plantings will be transferred from the first to the second
project. Savings of US$2.2 million resulting from the amendment (R73-7h)
and the merging of the two projects were cancelled at the date of signature
of the second project. The first project is therefore considered to be com-
pleted. Disbursements will be completed by September 1975.
Ln. No. 761          Second Highway Project: US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Closing Date: November 30, 1975.
A section of the Yabayo-Man Road will be rerouted due to present un-
certainties concerning the construction of a dam in the area of the road.
(See Memorandum to the Executive Directors R73-170 of July 6, 1973.) Con-
struction on the Man-Daekoue and Bouake-Katiola Roads is making good progres-.
At the Government's request, Bank financing of the detailed engineering of the
Katiola-Ferkessedougou Road was abandoned: the road will be constructed under
Government financing.   The Government has requested to use the funds thus re-
leased to finance a second phase of an urban study in Abidjan.
Ln. No. 837          Third Highway Project: US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The road maintenance and betterment program has started. A second
call for bids for the reinforcement works had to be made, however, due to
inadequate submissions. The project incurred substantial cost overruns due
to currency realignments and abnormal price escalation.
Cr. No. 406         Fourth Highway Project: US/7.5 million Credit of June
25, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Construction of the N'zi bridge has started. Bids on the Yabayo-
Gagnoa Road have been received and contracts awarded. This project is experi-
encing cost overruns similar to those of the third project.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Ln. No. 938         Rubber Plantation Loan: US48.4 million Loan of October
23, 1973;  Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Land clearing and planting have started. Project implementation has
been hampered by the poor performance by the management team. Large cost
overruns, mainly due to mismanagement and also to accelerated inflation, are
apparent, but accurate estimate is difficult at this time because present
accounting is poor. Discussions between co-lenders and Government were held
at the end of January in Paris and Abidjan, on the problem of management.
The co-lenders have notified the Borrower that technical and financial manage-
ment of the project, including management arrangements with Michelin, would
have to be drastically changed as a condition of further financing of the
project.
Ln. No. 981         Telecommunications Project:  US$25.o million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Consultants have been selected and bidding documents are being pre-
pared.
Ln. No. 1036        Third Oil Palm Project:  US$2.6 million Loan of July
31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Loan is not yet effective. /
Ln. No. 1069        Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January
10, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
This Loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1076        Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1077        Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31.0 million
,Loan of January 17, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project has begun satisfactorily. Land clearing
has begun and it is expected that 4000 ha will be cleared before the end of the
year. The Blacksmith Training Program has started and CIDT, the project exe-
cuting agency is preparing loan requests to BNDA to finance blacksmith's kits.
Bids for the construction of staff housing are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1124        Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
This Loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1125        Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Loan of June
11, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Loan is not yet effective.
This Loan became effective on July 29, 1975.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
IVORY COAST - SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT - LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Cr6dit de la C6te dfIvoire (CCI).
Guarantor:           The Republic of the Ivory Coast.
Amount:              Us$ 5.6 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years including three years of grace
with an interest rate of 8.5 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:     CCI would relend for up to 15 years including an appropriate
grace period at an interest rate of 12 percent per annum.
Sub-borrowers are expected to assume the foreign exchange
risk.
Project
Description          The Bank loan of US$ 5.6 million to CCI would help meet the
financial requirements of investments by small-scale enterprises
(SSEs) in the Ivory Coast through 1978. The loan is expected
to improve the efficiency of, and the cooperation between,
CCI and OPEI, the country's principal public financing and tech-
nical assistance agencies in this field and more generally, to
foster the Government's promotion program for indigenous SSEs.
Project Costs
and Financing
Plan:                The loan (US$ 5.6 million) would be made to the CCI in the form
of a line of credit to provide financing for up to 60 percent
of sub-project costs -- equivalent to the estimated foreign
excharge cost -- of small-scale enterprises defined as follows-
(a) enterprises in the secondary or tertiary sectors; (b) enter-
prises having total assets of up to CFAF 40 h illion (US$200,000),
including assets financed under the project; (c) enterprises
with at least 51 percent of tne equity owned by Ivorian nationals
and managed by Ivorians, in line with the Government's Ivori-
anization policy. The remaining 40 percent of sub-project costs
would be provided by the promoter's equity contribution, medium-
term borrowing from local financial institutions, and possibly
resources from the Government's Participation Fund. Sub-loans of
less than CFAF 1 million (Us$ 5,000) would be excluded. UJS$3.1!
million would be allocated for SSEs in identified branches
agreed between the Bank and CCI/OPEI and up to $2.2 million for
sub-projects in unidentified branches; part thereof could later
be reallocated for sub-projects in identified branches.   lo
more than $0.8 million per year would be allowed to be cormnitted
for projects in unidentified branches. For the idenrliJled
branches, sub-projects would automatically be authorized for
Barik financing once the Bank has approved OPEIts branch stUdy
and the first "model" project.



A'i.EX TIT
Page 2 of L
Free iTmit:          CFAF 1C million (NJS.-iD00'l) for individual sub-projects
in unidentified branches; the aggregate free liLit
therefor is US.$1.1 million.
Final Date for
Project
Submissions:         December 31, 1978.
Estimated
Disbursements:       IBRD        FY        1976      1977      1978      1979
-annual                .7        1.8       2.2       0.8
-cumulative           .7         2.5       .8        <,6
Procurement:         Through normal commercial channels.
Appraisal Report:    Report IJo. 780a-IVC of July 21, 1975, "Appraisal of a
Small-Scale Enterprise Project," Development Finance
Companies Department.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Balance Sheet.s (as at Se tember 30)
(CFAF million)
1970     1971                 127 12     I
ASSETS
Cash and bank deposits                 (48)      23       210        221       163
Receivables                            241        9        15          6         6
Other                                  20        24        28         29        93
Total current                         X)                           ?-5       766
Short-term loans                      706       997     1,20h     1,20L      1,49h
Medium-term loans                   1,369     2,490     3,513      3,853     5,730
Long-terma loans                    4,926     h 960     4 862      h 96G     5 603
Subtotal                          7,001 9Ut7          9,579    10,017     1    t
Doubtful and in litigation            278       404       480        647       741
Less:  Provisions                     (185)    (238)     (266)      (358)  (i61)
Ket portfolio                     7,094    o,ol3      9,793    10,306     13,107
Equity investments                     16        16        16         1C        24
Less:  Provisions                       Xj       Lf)       Lo)             (4)
Net equities                        10         9         8          6        20
Other investments                      17        21        26         43        55
Land                                    4         4         5          5         5
BuildinSs (net)                        30        65        55         60       164
Equipment (net)                        15        24        36         33        52
TJnder construction                     2         2         1         71        1
Total fixed                          5         9         97          9       q
TOTAL                             7,168    8,794     10,177    10,760     13,680
LIABILITIES
Br-F.;  -  -      266       286        392
CAAt                                   90       250       325        207       32h
Sipht deposits                          5         5        10       . 13        13
Security deposits                      98       152       296       -201 -     121
Pavables and other                     75       95       1i4        126        180
Total ciLrrent                               50 2     1,011        E3      1,031.
BCEAO                                 9h3    2,12h      3,022     3,205      4,833
CCCE                                3,982    3,790      3,471     3,469      3,L54
CAA                                   636       828       823    -1,123      2,005
Governmient                            29         -         -          -         -
USAID                                   -         -         -          -        67
Total lon_g/medium borrowings     5,5      6, 72      7,316     7,797     10,367
General reserves                      206       257       377       414        46i
Internal guarantee funds              214       279       3h8        605       687
Other                                   7         9        11         12        12
Total general reserves a/           17B                   l     1,031      1,160
Share capital (paid in)               800      900      1,000     1,000      l,0OO
Reserves and accumulated earnings      8        105       ll;        119       123
Total equity                               1,005                1,119      1,123
TOTAL                             7,168    8,794     10,177    10,780     13,680i
Operations on Government Account
Disbursed                              -      179        508       898        908
Undisbursed                          100       6          11         0         19
Total                              100      24h        519.      923        927
j   These provisions are considered as part, of equify.



ANNEX III
Pa ge A o-- 4
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Income Statements (Year ending September 30)
(CFAF million)
1970     1971     1972     1973     1974
REVENUIES
Loan interest and commissions             440      551      647      684      871
Income on investments                       4        7        6       17       19
Interest on deposits                       10        5        8       10   )   89
Other                                      21        4       76       64   )   --
Total revenue                           7 X    737      77E      979
EXPENSES
Personnel                                  95      116      132      145      182
Administrative                             69       86      130      136      175
Depreciation                               22       15       20       19       30
Interest on borrowings                    180      234      287      326      432
Provisions /J- 7                                   115      15       141      150
Total expenses               439      56       728      767       9
Operating income                           36       31        9        8       10
Extraordinary income (net)                 (9)       -        1        3       (5)
Tax                                        11       11        1        1        1
Net inc oae a/                             16       20        7        4        4
a/ Of these provisions, the following
amounts were allocated to general
reserves to minimize taxable income.     49       51      120       37       47
Consequently, net income can be
restated as follows:                     65       71      127       41       51



IVORY   COAST
SENEGAL  MAL I  N  I G E R
GARRIA .Z  )  UWERt  ,   ._ CHA
rORTGUINNEAA  J OEAC )                      _    InGernaLensI bOUndarieS
' ' .   'vopt 2?,NIGERIA  c-              Paved  ods
S..ALEONE I  'LfOSO  g                         P-d'~
LIBERIA  (  ti7                         _ ___  Sr I rl ds
GI OEM-
oEDO  G U I NEOR HP  M  A  L I
>   ./ CONO 
ANGOLA                        in BR' a1fjj
,!  '>  /\)   0  \    '    $n     w~~~~~~~~~~~~~UPPER  VOLTA
)~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AG /0  AS BO ',, AH   Lt j
L) I               I                 5i
Ii:      \          \ ]            -   ,S      
GUINEA/ 
0'''7 
0~~\ 
0 :f: a,WK ! :; Xa 0:: TH %~~~~~~~~~
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               H A N AA
L    I              I E  R        I A
.                                           1';1  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   8 - I  o 1X... 



