Report No. 780a-IVC
Ivory Coast                                                                          FILE COPY
Appraisal of a
Small Scale Enterprise Project
July 21, 1975
Development Finance Companies Department
Not for Public Use
A, V
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = CFAF*
CFAF 1 = TJS $0.005
TJS $ 1 = CFAF 200
ABBREVIATIONS
AFCOPA    Association Francaise de Cooperation, de Formation et de
Promotion Artisanale
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BDI       Bureau de Developpement Industriel
BICICI    Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie
de la Cote d'Ivoire
BIDI      Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel
BNDA      Banque Nationale pour le Developpement de 1'Agriculture
GAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCI       Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OPEI      Office National de Promotion de l'Entreprise Ivoirienne
SGBCI     Societe Generale de Banque de la Cote d'Ivoire
SONAFI    Societe Nationale de Financement
SSE       Small-scale enterprise(s)
TU"IDO    TJnited Nations Indws-trial Development Organization
TINDP     United Nations Development Program
TJSAID    U0S. Agency for International Development
* The CFA Franc is tied to the French France in a ratio of 1 French
Franc to 50 CFAF Francs. The French Franc is currently floating.
CCI's Fiscal Year: October 1-September 30



IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
STJIARY
I.    INTRODUCTION ...........     .    ...      .......                 1
II.   ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT   .      ............... ... .........        3
A)  ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT ................           3
Economic Growth and Structure..,...............             3
The Industrial Sector ...........................          4
B)  IVORIANIZATION AND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISES .........           5
Ivorianization ........................... *..*.................  5
Small-Scale Enterprises in the Ivory Coast......            7
III.  FINANCIAL ENVIrLONMENT ...............       .. a....... .        10
A)  THE FINANCIAL SETTING AND CENTRAL BANK .............          10
Interest Rates and BCEAOts Rules .................    10
B)  CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE (CCI) ...................          12
Board, Management and Staff .....................          13
Policies and Procedures.........................          13
Resources, Operations and Portfolio .............         14
Profitability, Financial Condition and Audit ....         18
P'rospects ..*.* ............................... ........... .....  19
IV.  SSE PROMOTION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ............ ......         20
OPEI ....................................  20
The Guarantee Fund.       o ....... .... .o                21
SONAFI's Participation Fund..o. o .....oo........         22
Evaluation of the Promotion Scheme..............          23
Reorganization of OPEI........................            23
V.   THE PROJECT .. o........................                           26
The Proposed Bank Loan.  ......       .....   oo ....... .  30
Benefits and Justification .....o .....     00 .. .. O...  32
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS.-o .....    .          .  .oe.o  .  .   ._o.o.9o . ..  e..  33
This report was prepared on the basis of missions to Ivory Coast in
November/December 1973 and 1974, comprising Messrs. Khalil Nougaim,
Jonathan Bloom, Rolf Glaeser, Philippe Nouvel and Alain Soulard(Consultant).



i,.-ST OF ANNEXES
lo   Ivory Coast:  Origin of GDP at Current Prices
2.   Ivory Coast:  Assistance Provided by AFCOPA
3.   OPEI:  Summary of Activity (196F-73)
L.   OPEI:  Enterprises assisted (l968-73)
5.   Guarantee Fund:  Summary of Operations
6.   SONAFI: Operations of the Participation Fund
7.   OPEI:  Organization Chart
8.   OPEI:  1975 Budget
9.   CCI:  Board of Directors
10.  CCI:  Staff
11.  CCI:  Organizational Chart
12.  CCI:  Extracts of Policy Statement
13.  CCI: Borrowing and Lending Rates
14.  CCI: Breakdown of Operations
15.  CCI:  Equity Investments
16.  CCI: Balance Sheets 1970-74
17.  CCI:  Income Statements 1970-74
18.  CCI:  Financial Ratios
19.  CCI:  Projected Operations
20.  CCI:  Projected Income Statements
21.  CCI: Projected Balance Sheets
22.  CCI: Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
23.  OPEI:  Branch Studies
24.  CCI:  Estimated Necessary Spread
25.  CCI:  Estimated Schedule  of Disbursements



SUMMARY
i.        With the help of a policy based on free enterprise and liberal immi-
gration, Ivorian industry has grown rapidly while foreign capital continued
predominant, attracted by active policies of industrial promotion that provide
various incentives to investors. A Government scheme, started in 1968 to
promote Ivorian small enterprises, has had some limited success. While capi-
tal finance extended to small Ivorian enterprises in recent years increased
sharply, albeit from a very low base, the technical assistance agency (OPEI),
has not performed its role satisfactorily, while the complexity of the system
has resulted in developing tensions among the institutions involved, and
long and costly delays in promoting enterprises.
ii.       The Bank project aims at:
(a)  improving the quality and focus of the technical assistance
by OPEI through streamlining and reorganizing the insti-
tution, which has been recently set in motion;
(b) providing capital finance to enterprises assisted by
OPEI, through a loan to CCI, a majority Government-owned
development bank that will develop its capability to
appraise small enterprise projects during the processing
of the loan; it recently became the intermediary for a
Bank loan for Tourism Development; and,
(c) developing cooperation between OPEI and CCI and fostering
a rationalization in the working relationships among the
other institutions involved in the promotion of small
enterprises.
iii.      To achieve the above objectives, a new approach will be used in
this pilot project: OPEI will promote enterprises in specific branches where
repetitive operations promoting small Ivorian enterprises can be implemented
under "model" projects, where suitable vocational training exists, and where
OPEI will be able to provide efficient technical assistance due to its re-
organization in sectoral units staffed by experienced tecimicians; the
branches already identified are wood working, garages, and bakeries. Other
branches may well be identified as suitable for OPEI's specialization during
execution of the project. To allow flexibility in the project, however,
part of the loan could be used to finance enterprises in branches other than
those in which OPEI will have specialized.
iv.       It is expected that the $5.6 million loan would finance part of the
investments of some 130 enterprises, creating some 1600 jobs for a total
investment cost of about $9.4 million. The additional value added created
by the project is estimated to be in the order of $7.5 million annually.



- ii -
v.        Subject to the assurances and understandings obtained at negotiations,
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$5.6 million equivalent to CCI.
The terms and conditions of the proposed loan should in most respects be those
normally applied to development finance companies projects. The loan would be
repaid according to a fixed amortization schedule, over 15 years including
three years of grace corresponding to the commitment period. Sub-projects
in identified and approved branches would be automatically approved once the
branch study and the first "model" subproject in each branch have been reviewed
by the Bank. CCI would charge a minimum of 12% for its loans to SSE, and it
is expected that final borrowers will carry the foreign exchange risk. For
subprojects in the unidentified branches ($2.2 million), the free limit would
be CFAF 10 million.
vi.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the eligible enter-
prises to be assisted, resources and procedures of the Guarantee Fund and
relending terms and conditions outlined. In addition, understandings were
reached on coordination procedures between OPEI and CCI and the status of the
Central Bank's SSE promotion measures.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Since the early sixties, the Ivorian Government has been following
a policy based on free enterprise that led to a successful development of
the economy and rapid development of the manufacturing sector. This policy
has attracted considerable foreign investment and foreign enterprises still
dominate a large part of the Ivorian economy; most enterprises, whatever
their scale, are owned and run by foreigners, although in 1968 a program was
established to foster Ivorian private enterprise.
1.02      At Government request at the end of 1972, a Bank reconnaissance
mission reviewed the Ivorian programs promoting small-scale enterprises (SSE).
This mission concluded that before the Government's efforts could be reinforced
through a Bank project, the institutional framework required modification to
make the system work more efficiently. Subsequently, a pre-appraisal mission
visited the Ivory Coast in November/December 1973; its conclusions, discussed
and agreed with the Government in May 1974, were as follows:
i)  There was need to re-organize the Office de Promotion
de l'Entreprise Ivoirienne (OPEI), the agency in charge of
promoting and providing technical assistance to SSEs. OPEI
had performed poorly due to bad management, mediocre staff,
lack of coordination, inadequate controls and the absence of
well defined priorities. It was also decided to create an
Executive Committee of the Board which would determine
priorities and establish and periodically review OPEI's
work program.
(ii)  In order to provide needed focus to OPEI's work, it was
decided to develop specialized approaches to selected
branches of activities. OPEI needed, therefore, to prepare
reviews of specific branches (e.g., woodworking, mechanical
repairs, clothing and printing) where a number of repeat
operations were feasible and to organize itself accordingly.
(iii)  Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI) was chosen as the most
appropriate financial intermediary for the proposed Bank
loan for SSE since it had already acquired experience in
the sector and was in a position to cooperate closely
with OPEI.
1.03      Having received assurances in October 1974, that at least three
branch reviews would Le completed and that OPEI's reorganization was being
implemented, an appraisal mission visited the Ivory Coast in December 1974
to review the branch studies, discuss the reorganization of OPEI and prepare
a financial scheme linked with technical assistance provided by OPEI to SSE
in priority branches.



- 2 -
1.04      This report sets out the findings of that mission and recommends
a Bank loan of $5.6 million to CCI for the financing of small-scale Ivorian
enterprises, i.e., enterprises with assets of less than CFAF 40 million
($200,000), a minimum 51% Ivorian participation and Ivorian management. This
proJect would complement Bank financial assistance to medium-scale enLer-
prises expected to be provided through the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement
Industriel (BIDI), a majority privately-owned development bank to which the
Bank is considering a loan of $8 milli-on.



II. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
A.   ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT
Economic Growth and Structure
2.01      An analysis of the economic situation of the Ivory Coast is provided
in the report "Current Economic Situation and Prospects of the Ivory Coast"
dated April 11, 1974. A basic economic mission visited Ivory Coast in June-July
1975 to evaluate the country's long-term prospects in the context of the draft
1976-80 Development Plan.
2.02      With a population of 5.6 million, Ivory Coast had an annual GNP
per capita of about $360 in 1973. During its first decade of independence,
the country experienced remarkable economic growth with an average annual
increase of GNP in real terms of 7.5%. Factors contributing to rapid growth
were the Government's liberal and pragmatic economic policies, the avail-
ability of ample land and timber resources, the existence of a large pool of
labor including immigrants from Sahelian countries and, during the late
sixties, rising commodity export prices. This growth was accompanied by
substantial structural changes. In terms of value added, the service sector
and the manufacturing sector, gained in importance (Annex 1).
2.03      The Government has, however, become increasingly concerned with
the possible effect of the rapid growth on income distribution among the
population and regional income distribution. Thus, to reduce inequalities,
recent salary raises have been graduated from 26 percent for the lowest to
5 percent for the higher paid workers. A number of agricultural projects
are designed to narrow the gap between urban and rural incomes and to reduce
regional income disparities. In the same vein producer prices were substan-
tially increased in recent years.
2.04      However, the next Plan (1976-80) will need to focus more sharply
still on problems of urbanization, prospects of employment in both rural
and urban areas and on income distribution. To assist the Government in
these directions, a special Bank employment mission, which included ILO
staff, visited the Ivory Coast.  The mission's report, "Ivory Coast:  Special
Report on Employment" (Report No. 279-IVC, July 1974), identified the major
employment problem as one of growing imbalances with manpower supply (includ-
ing immigration) shortages expected in rural areas while surpluses in urban
labor markets will develop in the absence of corrective action. The report
placed particular stress on the informal or traditional sector which has
the greatest labor absorption potential.
2.05      Prospects for sustained economic growth remain good; diversifica-
tion of agriculture is making good progress and industrial growth, which so
far has centered around enterprises of limited size to serve the still small
but growing domestic market, is expected to rely to an even greater extent



on exports of more highly processed agricultural products. An average growth
rate of GDP of 6% in real terms is considered achievable during the balance
of the seventies.
The Industrial Sector
2.06      Growth, Investment, Efficiency.  The industrial sector is analyzed
in depth in "Current Status and Prospects of the Industrial Sector in the
Ivory Coast" (Report No. 553-IVC dated February 4, 1975). Manufacturing
output grew by about 15% per annum during 1960-73 and its share in GDP in
the Ivory Coast rose from 4 percent in 1960 to 13 percent in 1972. This
rapid growth was based on the parallel development of export-oriented agro-
industries and import-based industries, which have expanded at the same
average rate over the period 1960-72. Industry in the Ivory Coast started
from a very small base in 1960 and is still at an infant stage; manufacturing
output was around CFAF 150 billion in 1972, and the sector's estimated assets
were CFAF 74 billion, at the end of 1972. In a number of subsectors capacity
is under-utilized as it is not always possible to adapt industrial equipment
to the dimensions of a limited market. During 1966-72, employment growth in
the manufacturing sector was only about 70% of the growth in value added at
constant factor prices, reflecting gains in labor productivity, which is
not considered low by African standards. Based on an analysis of 126 enter-
prises, Ivorian industry shows an acceptable average profitability with an
average post-tax return on equity of 12.2%.
2.07      Employment.  Manufacturing employed about 38,000 persons or only
1.5% of the total labor force in 1972. However, employment in the manufac-
turing sector represented 18% of all salaried employment in the modern sector
of the economy. The growth rate in industrial employment was 10.6% per year
during the period 1966-72.
2.08      General Policies.  The Ivory Coast has followed an industrial policy
based on encouragement of the private sector, with public sector industrial
investment relatively minor and confined to a few branches. Political stability,
active policies of industrial promotion and various incentives have inspired
the confidence of investors. The monetary framework allowing freedom of fore-
eign exchange transfers, and the existence of relatively well developed infra-
structure are other factors that explain the rapid industrial development
of the Ivory Coast. However, policy and criteria for public capital partici-
pation in industry have not always been clear and need to be more carefully
assessed. Further steps are also needed to develop a skilled Ivorian labor
force at all levels and to foster the emergence of Ivorian entrepreneurs.
The steps being taken to improve the situation are discussed below (paras.
2.13-2.15).
2.09      Investment Code.  The major instrument of the Government's indus-
trial policy is the Investment Code issued in 1960 which offers incentives
consisting of exemptions from duties on imports, taxes and other levies for a
period of up to ten years. Enterprises approved under the Investment Code,
called "priority enterprises", accounted for about two-thirds of industrial



-5-
value added in 1971. A special Investment Code for tourism projects was
issued in 1973. New large projects in industry and tourism that are
considered of particular developmental importance may get special incentives
tailored to each particular case under "establishment conventions" which can
guarantee tax stability for periods of up to 25 years.
2.10      Priority firms are subject to direct supervision by the Directorate
of Industrial Development (DDI) in the Ministry of Planning which prepares
annual reports on the performance of each priority firm, including emphasis
on the implementation of investment programs, production targets and employ-
ment of Ivorian personnel.
2.11      Over the past few years, the Investment Code has been subject to
various criticisms; in particular, the Bank Industrial mission in 1973 found
that: (i) the Code has been applied too liberally by giving the full ten-year
duty exemption on imported inputs; (ii) Government supervision of priority
firms has been inadequate; (iii) duty-free imports of raw materials granted
to priority firms discourage local production or partial processing of inter-
mediate goods; (iv) although not discriminating against small enterprises,
per se, the Investment Code mainly benefited large firms; and (v) the Invest-
ment Code tended to favor the installation of new equipment over fuller use
of existing capacity.
2.12      A new Investment Code under preparation envisages a number of
improvements. Firstly, reflecting recent practice, it will make incentives
and the period for which they are given more discretionary, after careful
examination of the merits of each project. Secondly, the new Code will
reflect reconsideration of the policy of exemption or reduction in import
duties on capital equipment and intermediate materials. Thirdly, the useful-
ness of introducing export subsidies on all industrial exports will be
reconsidered. One problem is the need to upgrade the quality of project
review by Government decision-makers. As a first step to directly deal
with this, the Bank is planning to sponsor a two-week seminar on economic
evaluation of projects to be held in Abidjan in 1975 with participants from
the Ministry of Planning and the Ivorian development banks. Follow-up
training will no doubt also be required.
B.   IVORIANIZATION AND SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISES
Ivorianization
2.13      Indigenous enLerprises participate only modestly in non-agricultural
sectors of the economy. In the secondary sector, the growth of industry has
come largely as a result of investments by foreign corporations and most
plants still require expatriate management and senior staff. Only limited
amounts of domestic savings have been channelled into industry and external
capital has, therefore, financed the bulk of its development. At the end
of 1971, it was estimated that 90% of assets in the modern manufacturing



-6-
sector were controlled by non-Ivorians. Moreover, since the education
system produces few technicians and trained workers, substantial expatriate
labor was employed in the secondary sector. Ivorian salaried employment in
the tertiary sector is also modest (57% in 1970), though higher than in
industry.  Non-African employment WaS largely predunThIaIL L.a L; llibtr paid
skilled and managerial positions in the private sector.
2.14      In 1971, only 24% of the managerial and professional technical staff
of enterprises were Ivorians or other Africans; out of the 2,573 management
positions in the private and semi-public sector, Ivorians held 363, other
Africans 234 and non-Africans 1,976. Virtually all management positions
requiring upper secondary level education were held by non-Africans. While
there has been some progress in Ivorianization since then, the basic pattern
has not changed substantially.
Table I
Structure of Salaried Employment in the Private Section in 1971 (%)
Non-Ivorian
Ivorians      Africans       Non-Africans   Total
Management                           .3              .2              1.5         2.0
Professional Technical Personnel   .5                .2              2.1         2.8
Foremen                             2.1              .6              1.7         4.4
Other Supervisory Personnel         4.8             1.2              1.1         7.1
Subordinate Personnel               5.4             3.7                -         9.1
Skilled workers                     8.0             3.0               .1        11.1
Semi-skilled workers               13.4             7.9                -        21.3
Unskilled workers and
apprentices                      13.4            28.8                -        42.2
47.9            45.6              6.5      100.0
2.15      While the Government will continue to encourage foreign investment,
"Ivorianization" of the economy is also an important goal. Ivorianization
aims at increasing participation of Ivorians in economic and social life by
(a) increasing Ivorian ownership in existing enterprises. (b) increasing
Ivorian participation in managerial positions and (c) promoting Ivorian-owned
enterprises. The Economic Development Plan (1971-75) declares as one of its
fundamental objectives the increased participation of Ivorians in economic
activities. Although the Government has not specified quantitative targets
for its promotion program of Ivorian enterprises, it has: (i) set up a
comprehensive scheme to promote small-scale Ivorian enterprises and facilitate
their access to credit (Chapter IV); (ii) participated in banks, industrial
and commercial enterprises through SONAFI, a public financial institution
(para. 4.12); (iii) required enterprises obtaining incentives of the Invest-
ment Code to present plans for Ivorianization of personnel; (iv) planned the
establishment of a stock exchange which would help develop Ivorian share-
holdings in private enterprises; and (v) reserved new investments in



certain sectors to Ivorians. It is also planned that in the future local
contractors will be given preference for public procurement and construction.
However, the capital and managerial needs of large industrial companies will
probably continue to be met substantially by foreign enterprise in the next
few years.
Small-Scale Enterprises in the Ivory Coast
2.16      Definition.  There is no generally accepted definition of small-
scale enterprise (SSE) in the Ivory Coast. Some definitions encountered
include the following elements: firms having (a) less than ten employees;
(b) annual sales of less than CFAF 75 million for manufacturing firms or
CFAF 200 million for commercial enterprises; (c) term-borrowing requirements
of less than CFAF 25 million. In this project, SSE are defined as Ivorian-
controlled and managed enterprises with less than CFAF 40 million in total
assets. Essentially, they will be in the informal sector as defined in
para. 2.18.
2.17      Contribution to Value Added and Economic Growth.  Apart from some
limited surveys on the activities of traders, craftsmen and other small-scale
enterprises in Abidjan and Bouake, the country's two largest cities, and some
partial data from financial and technical assistance institutions, there are
no comprehensive data on the status and activities of SSE in the Ivorian
economy. The Government, however, is planning to conduct a nationwide census
on the SSEs in an effort to update and extend a 1967 Abidjan sample survey.
More information on SSEs may also be obtained from a 1974 survey on the
agricultural sector in the southern region of the country especially regarding
non-farm activities.
2.18      Until the findings of the above-mentioned surveys are available,
the role and importance of SSEs can only be roughly deduced from preliminary
data on the "traditional" or "informal" sector, even though these figures
are neither complete nor fully comparable. Virtually all SSEs are in the
"informal" sector, i.e., they are characterized by (a) predominant use of
local resources; (b) family nature of the enterprise; (c) small-scale of
operation and turnover; (d) rudimentary operating equipment and the use of
simple technology; (e) small number of wage earners and low labor productivity;
(f) workers with skills generally acquired outside the formal education
system; and (g) concentration in non-regulated, competitive markets.
2.19      The importance of the informal non-agricultural sector to economic
growth is probably not adequately reflected in the national accounts and
GDP computations although the Ministry of Planning has recently commissioned
a study to obtain a better evaluation of the impact of the informal sector
on the economy. It is clear from the following table, however, that the
manufacturing sector has been the fastest growing sector.



-8-
Table 2
Economic Growth 1960-72
Annual Average Growth Rates (%)
(at current market prices)
1960-65     1960-72    11965-72
GDP                                          11.0        10.7         10.6
Primary Sector /1                             6.7          6.6         6.5
Secondary Sector /1                          15.4        15.3         16.0
of which manufacturing                 23.7         22.2         21.0
of which crafts                      6.7          6.3          6.0
Tertiary Sector /1                           13.4         12.0         11.1
/1   Primary Sector:  agriculture, fishing, forestry, livestock.
Secondary Sector: industry, energy, construction, mining.
Tertiary Sector: services, trade, transport, government.
2.20      Within the secondary and tertiary sectors, it is roughly estimated
that about 15% of the value added of these sectors comes from informal enter-
prises although the formal/informal proportions vary largely among the branches;
e.g., 37% of the value added in the textile branch originated in the informal
sector, 26% for construction, 20% for repair of transport equipment and 18%
for woodworking.
Table 3
Estimated Contribution of the Informal Sector to GDP in 1970
Total        Value Added        Share of the VA
Value         (VA) of the       of the Informal
Added (VA)   Informal Sector   Sector to Total VA
--       CFAF billion  ------   ------- Z--------
Primary Secctor            115                  92                   80
Secondary Sector            81                  18                   22
Tertiary Sector            218                  30                   14
GDP                   414                140                    34
2.21      Employment. The informal sector also provides a substantial amount
of employment although the majority of the employment is of a "non-salaried"
nature, i.e., through self-employed persons and family members. For the
informal sector, current employment estimates are, as national account figures,



-9-
highly tentative. Actual labor input of the informal sector and under-
employment or disguised unemployment cannot be properly delineated. Labor
data of the informal sector, therefore, appear to be on the high side and
labor productivity figures tend to be low. The overall labor situation in
the secondary and tertiary sectors in 1970 can be summarized as follows:
Table 4
Employment in the Secondary and Tertiary Sectors in 1970
Thousand Persons       % of Total Employment
Secondary   Tertiary    Secondary    Tertiary
Sector      Sector       Sector        Sector
1.   Formal Sector             83           117           39           68
(salaried persons)
2.   Informal Sector          130            54           61           32
(of which salaried
persons)            (16)          (29)         (8)         (17)
(of which non-
salaried persons) (114)           (25)        (53)         (15)
3.   Total Employment         213           171          100          100
The table shows that nearly 50% of employment in the secondary and tertiary
sectors were in the informal sector. These estimates also suggest that, while
the informal secondary sector offered more employment in terms of number of
jobs than the formal sector, the number of salaried persons - who normally
enjoy more stable employment - was by far higher in the formal than in the
informal sector. Branches such as "wood working" and "construction and
repair of transport equipment" rank among the most labor intensive sub-
sectors for nearly 15% of total employment in the secondary sector. Avail-
able data also suggest that in both branches the informal sector provides
more employment opportunities than the formal sector.
2.22      In summary, it is an important objective of the Government to
increase the opportunities for development of Ivorian-owned and managed
small business enterprises and, given the substantial demand from entre-
preneurs, there appears to be considerable potential for such activity. To
realize more of the potential of the SSE sector, it is necessary to reduce
constraints facing such enterprises in obtaining access to technical, mana-
gerial and financial support. The proposed loan would help alleviate some of
these constraints. Together with other benefits expected from the proposed
loan, the project would meet an important objective in the Government's plans
for economic and social development.



- 10 -
III.  FINANCIAL ENVIRON1ENT
A.   THE FINANCIAL SETTING AND CENTRAL BANK
3.01      The Ivory Coast is a member of the Western Africa Monetary Union
established in 1961 and composed of six countries with a coamon central bank,
the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO). Banking and
credit institutions in the Ivory Coast include four commercial banks, three
development banks (BIDI, CCI, BNDA), and two leasing institutions. In addi-
tion, there is a public institution, Caisse Autonome d'mortissement (CAA)
which manages public debt, holds and manages public deposits and mobilizes
local resources through bond issues.
3.02      The financial sector has been progressively Ivorianized; the
Government has a 21.1% share in BIDI, controls 75% of CCI and BXDA, and has
participations of 35% or more in three commercial banks which are largely
owned by French banks associated with American, German and Italian financial
institutions. These banks have either an Ivorian as General Manager or Deputy
and Ivorianization of their professional staff has been increasing progressively.
3.03      The commercial banks provide short and medium-term financing (up
to 7 years) to all sectors of the economy. BNDA specializes in agricultural
and agribusiness lending. BIDI plays a major role in long-term lending to
medium and large-scale industrial enterprises, while CCI until now, was mostly
engaged in loans for housing. vehicles, and consumer goods, and financing of
craftsmen and small enterprises. Its industrial lending has expanded markedly
in recent years (para. 3.22) and it will serve as the financial intermediary
for a recently approved Bank loan for tourism development (Report No. -666a-
IVC, April 28, 1975).
Interest Rates and BCEAO's Rules
3.04      Interest rates and credit distribution for short and medium-term
loans are controlled by BCEAO mainly through its rediscount policy. Credit
volume is controlled through allocating to each bank a ceiling for short-term
discount facilities and a commitment ceiling for their medium and long-term
operations. In addition, the banks can discount their loans only after study
by BCEAO of each application according to detailed procedures. The interest
rate structure is built around the discount rate of BCEAO, which remained
unchanged at 3.5% from 1962 to 1972 and was raised to 5.5% early in 1973.
Interest rates charged for loans range from 6.5% to 11% (excluding various
commissions that may add an additional 1% to the cost), depending on the
nature and duration of the loan, and whether it is discountable or not.
Discountable loans (rates of 6.5 - 9.5%) represent only 25% of total loans
outstanding; all short- and medium-term non-discountable loans are made at



- 11 -
a nominal rate of 11%. These rates prevail in the six member countries of
the Western Africa Monetary Union, which have different economic conditions.
In the Ivory Coast, the inflation rate remained low (3-4% on the average)
until 1973, when it increased to about 10% due to changes in international
economic corditions. The inflation rate is expected to slow in coming years.
Guarantees (either personal or on fixed assets) offered by loan applicants
are a major element of the lending decision by banks and small-scale enterprises
have difficulties obtaining access to bank credit, whether discountable or not.
As a result, small entrepreneurs may be compelled to borrow on the informal
market, where effective rates may exceed 30% p.a. Interest rates for deposits
are determined by BCEAO by adding to a basic rate (2.5%) spreads varying from
O to 4%. The CAA issues tax free bonds every year at 7-10% interest rate,
but the volume of savings it mobilized has remained modest (less than CFAF
0.5 billion per year). As the monetary framework allows free transfers with-
in the Franc zone, and low interest rates paid on deposits have not been
attractive, private savings in the Ivory Coast have lagged.
3.05      Medium-term discountable loans are generally used to finance local
costs and may cover the import component of an investment only when external
financing or suppliers credits are not available. Enterprises must provide
minimum equity financing of 20% of project cost (10% when SONAFI provides at
least 10% in the form of quasi-equity (para. 4.12)) and discountable loans
cannot represent more than 50% of most projects cost, 65% for agriculture
and industrial enterprises, or 80% for small and medium-scale enterprises
when loans are guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund (para. 4.07). Loans for
purchase of used equipment or existing enterprises cannot be discounted.
3.06      Financial assistance to small-scale enterprises.  There are no
comprehensive data on loans to small-scale enterprises from financial insti-
tutions in the Ivory Coast. Partial information indicates lending to small-
scale enterprises (defined by local banks for statistical purposes as loans
below CFAF 25 million each) increased sharply during recent years, from about
CFAF 300 million in 1970 to over CFAF 1 billiorL in 1973. The bulk of these
loans related to trade or other tertiary sector activities. Two commercial
banks - SGBCI and BICICI - accounted for about two-thirds of total lending,
followed by CCI. Most of the loans had rather short maturities (up to four
years).
3.07      Although the BCEAO discount system does not discriminate against
small-scale enterprises, it has been in fact difficult for them to obtain
term loans from commercial banks for several reasons:  (i) small entre-
preneurs are not able to submit a detailed project and loan application, and
it is costly for the banks to prepare it in view of the small amounts involved;
(ii) they are often incapable of presenting financial statements and justify-
ing minimum working capital requirements; and (iii) the minimum 20% equity
may be a stringent condition for small entrepreneurs who may have difficulties
in obtaining supplementary finance for the difference between total project
costs and the maximum loan discountable at BCEAO. Short-term finance has also
proved problematic for SSEs; as commercial banks usually reached their discount
ceiling in recent years and were obliged to borrow temporarily abroad at



- 12 -
interest rates of 12-13%, they preferred to use their discount facilities
for large secure firms. These factors explain that most loans granted to
small-scale enterprises in recent years were non-discountable and carried
higher interest rates. Given the tight rediscount ceilings allocated to
banks under the BCEAO system, the strict commitment limits placed on the
banks and the banks' emphasis on guarantees offered, small-scale enterprises
have had difficulties in obtaining capital or short-term finance from the
banking system.
3.08      Foreign sources have recently provided some concessionary long-term
resources for Ivorian owned small enterprises. In 1973, USAID lent $7.5
million at 3.5% through the Entente Fund 1/ to six development banks, including
$2.5 million to BIDI, and $1.5 to CCI for loans to small enterprises belong-
ing at least 35% to Ivorians. The loan to CCI, which had no procurement
restrictions, has been totally committed for a variety of loans from 2 to 7
years. USAID is presently envisaging another loan to CCI through the Entente
Fund. Primarily because procurement under its credit line is restricted to
tile U.S. or LDC, BIDI has only committed some 60% of its loan. At the end
of 1974, BIDI was granted a DM 10 million loan from KfW (30 years, 2%), for
enterprises owned at least 30% by Ivorians, with a maximum DM 500,000 commit-
ment ($220,000) per subproject. Since BIDI can mix long-term foreign resources
with medium-term discountable funds, it is probable that the KfW loan will be
used for medium-scale enterprises, BIDI's recognized major field of activities,
rather than small ones.
3.09      BCEAO Reforms and SSE Promotion.  BCEAO is currently in the process
of defining a series of fundamental reforms. Among them are expected to be
freer allocations and procedures for rediscount facilities and possible
national minimum or maximum allocations of credit to particular sectors.
Moreover, both to mobilize savings and to reduce the incentive for foreign
enterprises to obtain cheap local finance, interest rate policy is expected
to tie the Monetary Union more closely to the money markets in Europe,
providing an interest rate structure more responsive to changing conditions.
In addition, to stimulate SSE investment, the Central Bank plans to ease both
minimum equity and documentation requirements for loans to this sector while
reserving special short-term rediscount facilities for SSEs. Moreover, a
proposed central record of SSE loans should aid future analysis of the sector.
The reforms affecting SSEs in Ivory Coast are being implemented progressively.
B.   CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE (CCI)
3.10      CCI is a multipurpose development bank established in 1955.  It
now has a majority-Government shareholding (75%); CCCE holds 17% and BCEAO
the remaining 8%. CCI finances housing, industry, trade, artisans, small
household equipment and automobiles; it provides short-, medium- and long-term
loans, equity participations and guarantees to private or public corporations
1/   Fonds de Garantie du Conseil de l'Entente, a financial institution giving
its guarantee to loans made to member countries: Dahomey, Ivory Coast,
Niger, Togo and Upper Volta.



- 13 -
and individuals. CCI has its headquarters in Abidjan, and four branch offices
in Bouake, Abengourou, Daloa and Korhogo. A fifth office is planned in Man.
3.11      At the time the proposed project was conceived, the question was
examined as to whether CCI or the entire financial network of commercial and
development banks should be used as channel for the Bank funds. Given CCI's
experience in the SSE sector, its reasonable geographical coverage of the
country, and the advantage at this stage of linking financial assistance
from a single institution to OPEI technical assistance, the Bank agreed
with the Government that CCI would be the appropriate financial intermediary.
Board, Management and Staff
3.12      CCI's Board of Directors consists of nine Government-appointed
officials, two representatives of CCCE and one from BCEAO (Annex 9). The
Board meets about every two months and considers in full session only the
largest loans or those which present policy issues; the full Board discussed
some 100 loans accounting for 60% of all amounts approved in FY 1974. A
"select committee" approves most routine loans, and those below CFAF 3.5
million are approved by the Director General. A Government Commissioner,
nominated by the Minister of Economy and Finance, has a veto over Board
decisions but has never exercised this power.
3.13      Appointed by the Board, the present Director General has been at
CCI almost since its founding and has spent the last eight years in his
present position. He has managed the institution well and is supported by
three department heads, each of whom has over eight years' experience at
CCI. In 1974 the staff numbered 154 including 19 professionals and 135
non-professionals (Annex 10); 4 staff members, who are currently being trained
by CCCE's training institute or within CCI will rejoin the Operations Depart-
ment in 1975, greatly bolstering CCI's appraisal capabilities. In addition,
of the non-professional staff about 25-40 are well trained and experienced
in executing the more routine work at CCI.
3.14      CCI has three departments (Annex 11).  The Financial and Administ-
rative Department is charged with accounting and administration. The Operations
Department is divided into three divisions: the Technical Division which
supervises construction financed by CCI; the Execution Division which prepares
legal documents, controls disbursements and executes guarantees when necessary;
and the Credit Division which is responsible for preparation and appraisal
of loans. Lastly, the four branch offices are grouped administratively as
the third department under the Inspector General.
Policies and Procedures
3.15      CCI's operating policies are set out in its By-laws (Reglement
Interieur) which are approved by a three-quarters majority of the Board.
The By-laws establish minimum and maximum balance sheet relationships between
categories of assets and liabilities and set terms and conditions of loans



- 14 -
(including spread, maturities, minimum equity, use of proceeds and acceptable
guarantees).  Modification regarding appraisal criteria, exposure limits,
financial policy and staff development which were suggested during appraisal
were recently incorporated in the revised By-laws (extracts are at Annex 12).
3.16      Appraisal and Follow-up.  Appraisal of small loans for housing,
household equipment and automobiles consist of a routine check of the proposed
purchases and security offered; the sheer number of these loans (over 12,000
in FY74) gives CCI a reasonable basis for relative evaluation and judgment
of individual applications. Applications for larger loans to housing corpora-
tions, small- and large-scale industry, commerce and communities are subject
to thorough review by the Credit Division. These appraisals are generally
competently executed, but economic considerations are restricted Fo verifying
Government approval of (or, in the case of smaller projects, acquiescence
to) the project. There is little follow-up after disbursement due to staffing
constraints. Under the recently approved Tourism Development Project, an
adviser to CCI's Operations Department has been recruited to assist in the
promotion, organization and appraisal of hotel subprojects and introduce
follow-up procedures. Since these functions would absorb only perhaps two-
thirds of his time, the balance will be devoted to help improve CCI's procedures
for appraisal of small-scale enterprises, related policies, and coordination
with OPEI.
3.17      Disbursement and Procurement Procedures.  CCI's control of disburse-
ment and procurement is good. Disbursement to suppliers or construction
contractors is effected only after the Technical Division verifies prices and
work performed. In the past, procurement was restricted to approved suppliers
from whom borrowers could select. Although this system has lapsed, procure-
ment for goods financed under smaller loans is still limited in practice to a
small number of suppliers and contractors who maintain reasonable competition.
For larger loans, CCI reviews borrowers' procurement plans and adequately
ensures that proper goods are obtained at reasonable prices.
Resources, Operations and Portfolio
3.18      CCI's resources at September 30, 1974 were as follows



- 15 -
CFAF Billion
Share capital and reserves                                  2.29
Borrowings:  Long-term (over 7 years)                       6.36
Medium-term (2-7 years)                      11.50
Short-term (up to 2 years)                   0.84
Total                                20.99
Less:         Fixed assets                                  0.23
Equity investments                            0.08
Outstanding loans (net of
provisions)                               13.10
Total                                13.41
Resources available for disbursement                        7.58
Less:     Undisbursed comitments                        1.08
Resources available for commitment                          6.;0
Less:      Uncommitted approvals                        6.35
Resources available for approvals                           0.15
The large accumulation of uncommitted approvals is due to:  (a) the normally
long period required to process committed housing loans; (b) the approval
late in the fiscal year of a large loan to SICOGI (para. 3.20); and (c) the
processing period necessary for large industrial loans. Sources of borrowed
funds include CCCE, USAID and BCEAO. The loanb from CCCE are long-term,
about CFAF 100 million each, and are in the form of "global advances" for
housing and industrial projects as well as loans earmarked for specific
projects. Loans from CM include short, medium, and long-term funds split
between global advances for housing and industry and special advances. The
USAID loan is a subloan from the Entente Fund for Ivorian enterprises (see
para. 3.08). BCEAO provides CCI with medium and short-term rediscount facili-
ties.  Al' funds (Annex 13) cost between 5.5 and 7% except those from USAID
which cost 3.5%. CCI also acts as agent for the account of the Government
for two distinct operations; one is a program to help Ivorians set up small
commercial enterprises with some 300 participants for advances exceeding CFAF
845 million, and the other is management of a fund of CFAF 69 million, ear-
marked to refinance a housing project. Although it makes no lending decisions
and bears no risk on loans made from these funds, CCI has short-term free use
of them. These operations impose little administrative burden on CCI and it
receives a fee of 2% of amounts outstanding.



- 16 -
3.19      The following loan approvals summarize CCI's operations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 1974 (CFAF million):
Short-    Medium-      Long-
term      term         term      Total
Housing                        2     2,823         539      3,364
Consumers                 1,727          -           -      1,727
Enterprises                   54     2,724         238      3,016
1,783     5,547         777      8,107
3.20      Housing loans are divided into two categories.  The first includes
Government guaranteed loans to lower and middle income housing development
corporations - primarily Societe Ivoirienne de Construction et de Gestion
Immobiliere (SICOGI), a semi-public company - rediscounted at BCEAO with a
spread of 1.5%. The second category includes 600 medium and long-term loans
to individuals, each ranging from CFAF 2.0 to 3.5 million, secured by mort-
gages, personal guarantees and liens on rents as appropriate. Interest rates
on these loans range from 6.75 to 11%, as a function of location and use;
the lowest are for rural, owner-occupied houses and the highest for urban,
rental properties.
3.21      Consumer loans approved in the fiscal year ending September 30,
1974, include 600 loans averaging CFAF 700,000 for the purchase of private
automobiles and almost 11,500 loans averaging CFAF 100,000 for household
equipment. These loans are granted primarily on the basis of the borrower's
income and effective interest rates charged are 16% on one-year loans and
20-22% on two-year loans.
3.22      Until recently, by tacit agreement, CCI left large-scale industrial
lending to BIDI. In its most recent fiscal year, however, CCI greatly expanded
this type of financing; it granted 13 loans totalling CFAF 2.4 billion (90%
at medium-term) to the quasi-public electric utility, Energie Electrique de
la Cote d'Ivoire (EECI) and to textile, agricultural processing and manu-
facturing companies. Terms ranged from 5 to 10 years at interest rates of
7.5 to 11%. Most of these loans were in consortium with BIDI and the commer-
cial banks. This shift in policy was primarily a result of the need to involve
more banks in financing increasingly large industrial projects; CCI succeeded
in diversifying its operations and participating in relatively profitable loans.
In future CCI is expected to continue to participate in such lending without
normally taking a leading role; hence, BIDI is expected to remain the primary
medium and long-term financier of medium and large-scale industry. CCI will
devote a part of its financial resources to large industrial lending while
its staff will focus primarily on SSE loans. A detailed breakdown of CCI's
operations and its borrowing and lending rates by sector and term are given
in Annexes 13 and 14.



- 17 -
3.23      At September 30, 1974, outstanding loans in CCI's portfolio totalled
CFAF 13.6 billion (US$68.0 million), broken down as follows (CFAF million):
In
Long-   Medium-   Short-   Sub-       Doubt-    Liti-
term    term       term     total    ful         gation    Total
Housing         3,405   4,330          1    7,736       344        217      8,297
Enterprises    1,137   1,254          13    2,404        36         29      2,469
Communities    1,049      123          -    1,172          -         -      1,172
Consumers           -        -     1,477    1,477        20         18      1,515
Others             13      23          2        38       75          -        113
Total     5,604   5,730       1,493   12,827       475        264    13,566
In addition, undisbursed loans totalled some CFAF 1,400 million at long-term
and CFAF 6,100 million at medium-term.
3.24      Loans with payments of interest and/or principal more than 6 months
overdue are classified as "doubtful"; principal outstanding on such loans
amounted to CFAF 475 million, 3.5% of the total portfolio, including interest
accrued to the date of classification as doubtful. As eventual recoveries
have averaged about 50% on "doubtful loans", CCI makes provisions of 50% of
doubtful loans. Arrears over 12 months generally result in legal action being
taken to collect the loan; the loans "in litigation" amounted to CFAF 264 mil-
lion or 1.9% of the total portfolio. Although recoveries average 25% of such
loans, CCI conservatively establishes provisions equivalent to 85% of such
loans. A few small loans are simply written off after arrears are more than
12 months old as legal costs to realize the securities provided may exceed
the loan; such write-offs have amounted to CFAF 2 to 3 million annually in
recent years. CCI has, in addition, a general reserve fund which amounted
to CFAF 464 million (3.4% of total portfolio); allocations to this fund serve
to reduce taxable income (para. 3.27). Moreover, "internal guarantee funds"
of CFAF 605 million represent rebates from suppliers of consumer goods acquired
under CCI loans and contributions from the social security fund. These funds
are earmarked reserves for respectively, new consumer loans and housing loans
to private sector employees; they are not provisions for identified bad debts
but segregated reserves for operations considered unusually risky, despite
the low rate of write-offs.
3.25      CCI's largest current exposures are loans to SICOGI (fully Govern-
ment guaranteed) and to EECI which represent approximately 100% and 30%
respectively of CCI's net worth; as both were soundly appraised and the former
loan is fully guaranteed while the latter is to a semi-public utility, they
give no cause for concern. However, to protect CCI's financial viability,
a revision of the By-laws was recently introduced to limit CCI's normal exposure
to any one client to 20% of its net worth.



- 18 -
3.26      CCI's equity investments are very lirited.  They amount to C,EAF
30 million in 7 companies (Annex 15).  They include a CFAF 15 million
participation in Compagnie Financ:ere de la Cote d'Ivoire (COFI.CI), a new
bank associated with the Banque Nationale de Paris but not yet in operation
and an investment of CFAF 2 million in SIETHO, a Government-sponsored hotel
management company.
Profitability, Financial Condition and Audit
3.27      Like most public development banks in French-spealking Africa, CCI
is not concerned to show a profit after provisions but tries to maintain the
solidity of its balance sheet; thus, income in excess of a nominal level is
transferred to a tax-free general reserve account. Such transfers are limited
in any one year to 5% to loans outstanding and cumulatively to 10/o of loans
outstanding, but at present reserves are well below these limits. Including
such transfers in net income, CCI's net income in FY1974 was 5.8% of year-end
share capital or 2.6% of average equity including general reserves. Spreads
on various categories of loans range from 1.0% to over 16%, but CCI's overall
margin between its yield on all loans and the cost of borrowings has remained
steady at 3.0-3.5%.
3.28      CCI's shareholders have agreed to an increase of subscribed share
capital from CFAF 1 billion to CFAF 1.9 billion; it is expected that this will
be paid in during 1975-76. Although CCI's debt/equity ratio has been between
4:1 and 5:1 in the recent past, it is expected to reach between 6:1 and 7:1
by 1977. In view of the large percentage of CCI's portfolio consisting of
residential and commercial mortgage loans as well as its conpetent management
and sound financial policies, agreement was reached during negotiations on a
limit to CCI's debt/equity ratio of 8-1/3:1, equivalent to BCEAO's rules.
Balance sheets, income statements and financial ratios in Annexes 16 to 18
detail CCI's financial condition.
3.29      CC' had not been subject to an annual independent audit.  However,
two Accounts Commissioners, representing the Government and CCCE as the largest
shareholders, annually examine CCI's books to verify the accounts, certify
the regularity of transactions between CCI and its shareholders or directors,
and bring to the shareholders' attention any noteworthy items in the accounts.
Although more limited than a full audit, this supervision is a useful review
of CCI's operations and financial condition, serving to focus the attention of
management and the Board on possible problem areas. CCI has, however, recently
engaged independent auditors and will be subject to an annual audit. CCI's
accounts for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1974 were audited as a condition
for the Tourism Development Project. Although this first audit uncovered some
significant problems in accounting procedures resulting primarily from the
bank's rapid recent growth, the basic soundness of CCI was not called into
question; in cooperation with the auditors, CCI has undertaken to rectify
these problems in the near future.



- 19 -
Prospects
3.30      Financial projections and the assumptions on which they were based
are given in Annexes 19 to 22. These projections include the Tourism Develop-
ment Project and the proposed Small-Scale Enterprise Project.  CCI's operations
are expected to grow steadily but moderately, led by housing loans to indi-
viduals and companies.
3.31      CCI is considering the construction of new headquarters adjacent
to its present site to alleviate crowding of its customer facilities and
enable expansion of deposit business.  Current proposals for the building
include some 8,000 m2 of rental office space for the growing Abidjan market.
Present estimates indicate a cost of some CFAF 3 billion which CCI expects
to finance up to about 80% from CAA. The expanded service facilities should
complement CCI's ongoing operations and anticipated rental income should
offset the cost of ownership.  The building is not expected to impose an
undue financial burden on CCI.
3.32      To finance its future operations, CCI will require borrowings (net of
repayments) of CFAF 11 billion through its fiscal year ending September 30,
1979. Net income is expected to remain nominal while the debt/equity ratio,
as already noted, is expected to remain below the proposed 8-1/3:1 limit.
Given the composition of its lending and its competent management, CCI should
remain financially sound through the life of the loan.



- 20 -
IV. SSE PROMDTION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
4.01      The Government program to foster Ivorian small private enterprises
consists of the following main elements:
(1) A Office for the Promotion of Ivorian Enterprises (OPEI)
which promotes and provides technical assistance to
Ivorian small-scale enterprises and develops lending
proposals for these firms for presentation to the financial
institutions;
(2) A Guarantee Fund which guarantees a certain percentage of
the loans extended to Ivorian businessmen by financial
institutions;
(3) Special facilities under which SONAFI can provide quasi-
equity capital to Ivorian enterprises to enable them to
qualify for loans discountable with the Central Bank.
OPEI
4.02      OPEI was established in 1968, as a public enterprise with financial
autonomy and a broad mandate to create, develop and improve the efficiency
of Ivorian small enterprises. Its work is supervised by the Ministry of Plan-
nlng and its finances by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. It has a Board
of Directors of 18 members which meets once a year. Its day-to-day admin-
istration is entrusted to a Director General appointed by the Council of
Ministers on the nomination of the Minister of Planning.
4.03      Management - Organization.  Mr. Sibi Gbeno, formerly a civil servant
in the Ministry of Planning has been OPEI's Director General since its creation.
Until recently there were two basic departments: a technical department
divided into a few sectoral units, and an economic department, comprising
marketing, financial and general services divisions. In addition, OPEI has
two regional agencies in Bouake and Man, the latter equipped with a prototype
workshop for mechanical repairs.
4.04      At end of 1974, OPEI's staff of 126 included 39 Ivorian professionals
and 33 expatriate technical assistants. OPEI resources come from the Govern-
ment budget directly or through special funds provided by the Ministries of
Planning'and Economy and Finance for specific projects. OPEI's total resources
from Government budget in 1973 were estimated at CFAF 265 million, excluding
the cost of expatriate experts financed by the Government and bilateral or
international aid. OPEI's accounts have been thoroughly confused and at end
1974 OPEI was in arrears to many of its suppliers; substantial improvements
in financial management are being implemented (para. 4.18).
4.05      External Assistance.  OPEI has been using various forms of expat-
riate assistance: volunteers from Germany, France, U.S.A., expatriates
recruited directly by the Ministries of Economy and Finance and Planning, and



- 21 -
recently expatriates seconded under a FAC program to OPEI by AFCOPA, a private
French technical assistance organization which sends specially-trained tech-
nicians to developing countries in Africa to provide technical and management
assistance to small enterprises (see Annex 2) and trains local counterparts
in the field or in a special training center in France. Finally, since
early 1974, OPEI has had technical assistance from UNIDO (see para. 4.20).
4.06      OPEI's Past Activity and Results.  According to OPEI, over the period
1968-73 it assisted 602 enterprises, of which 159 obtained finance from banks
for a total of about CFAF 1.2 billion relating to investment programs total-
ling CFAF 1.7 billion (see Annexes 3 and 4). These programs generated about
1,600 new jobs, at an average cost of about $5,300/job. Most enterprises
assisted were in the service sector (43%) followed by bakeries (17%), wood-
working (9%) and construction (7%). Although the large increase of loans
granted to SSEs (see para. 3.06) in recent years would tend to confirm that
OPEI did play a significant role in that respect, it is difficult to deter-
mine to what extent this increase was due to OPEI's actions. Indeed, finan-
cial institutions have previously put little value on OPEI's appraisals
although they recently hale noted some improvement. In spite of the size
of the program, the quality of OPEI's technical assistance services has been
generally rather poor due to lack of appropriately experienced technicians
and low motivation of professionals. An exception to OPEI's generally poor
performance in the past years is the bakeries branch, where OPEI was success-
ful in promoting 27 new enterprises. During preparation of the project, sub-
stantial reform of OPEI has been started (para. 4.15-4.23).
The Guarantee Fund
4.07      The Guarantee Fund was established in 1968 as an autonomous public
institution with an initial Government capital grant of CFAF 100 million.
It may guarantee up to 80% of loans, whatever their maturities, granted by
financing institutions to enterprises with a minimum of 50% Ivorian owner-
ship. The Fund's normal individual maximum commitment is CFAF 25 million.
Total commitments must not exceed five times the available resources of the
Fund (i.e., resources minus defaults). Since the Fund had exceeded this
limit in 1973, the Government provided another capital grant of CFAF 150
million in 1974. Having exhausted its commitment possibilities, the Fund
has been granted a replenishment of CFAF 150 million in May 1975 (para. 5.13).
4.08      The Fund is administered by a Secretary General appointed by the
Minister of Economy and Finance. Guarantees are approved by a management
committee of nine persons, including representatives of the Ministries of
Economy and Finance and of Planning, BCEAO, CAA, and OPEI. Decisions are
taken on the basis of the appraisals made by banks and briefly reviewed
by the Fund which employs only five persons. The decree establishing the
Fund specifies that OPEI may review projects submitted to the Fund, and
control their execution. In practice, cooperation between OPEI and the
Fund has been weak, but should improve under the project.



- 22 -
4.09      In the past, the Fund guarantees provided the following principal
advantages to borrowers: (i) an wiverage reduction by 1% of the interest rate;
(ii) the possibility of obtainin, 3-EAO's discount for up to 80% of project
cost; and (iii) easier access to liscount of short-term loans guaranteed. An
analysis of the Fund's operations sInce its inception up to September 30,
1974 is given in Annex 5. The Fund had guaranteed loans totalling CFAF 1.6
billion extended to enterprises in the industry and service sectors up to
an amount of CFAF 1.1 billion, i.e., 70% of the total. About 90% of loans
guaranteed were medium term.
4.10      As of September 1974, interest and principal repayments in arrears
totalled CFAF 97 million, i.e., 9% of total guarantees extended and 21% of
total interest and capital repayments falling due during the period. They
concerned 37 enterprises, i.e., 33%0 of the total number of enterprises that
obtained guarantees from the Fund. The lending institutions are required to
take due steps, including normal legal proceedings, to realize any security
they had obtained to collect loans in case of default before they can claim
compensation from the Fund. As a result, the Fund had only reimbursed CFAF
20.5 million, i.e., about 21% of outstanding arrears.
4.11      The Fund's administrative expenses are met by Government's budget
allocation, and it has until now received a 1% commission on guarantees on
short-term loans (i.e., with less than two years maturity). The Fund does
not do any follow-up of enterprises. To provide continuous resources to the
Fund, it has been agreed that the Fund will charge a fee for guarantees, i.e.,
that the previous reduction orn interest charges will be suppressed and the
corresponding amounts transferred by the banks to the Fund (para. 5.13).
SONAFI's Participation Fund
4.12      SONAFI was established in 1962 as a public institution mainly to
hold and administer Government participations in and provide special loans
to industrial and commercial enterprises and to mobilize national savings for
the promotion of Ivorian investment. Its resources consist of a capital grant
from the Government and of bonds floated in the Ivory Coast which may be sub-
scribed by using tax certificates issued by the Fonds National d'Investisse-
ment. 1/  As of September 30, 1973, SONAFI's equity portfolio totalled CFAF
7.3 billion, and it had CFAF 3.1 billion in loans outstanding.
4.13      The Government established within SONAFI a special fund to provide
quasi-equity finance to Ivorian entrepreneurs, and granted CFAF 100 million
to this Fund in 1973, of which CFAF 45 million were allocated to operations
committed in the past by SONAFI on behalf of the Government. The Fund's main
1/   Commercial enterprises have to pay 10% of their pre-tax profits to the
Fonds National d'TInvestissement: they receive tax certificates which
can be redeemed for approved investment programs or converted into SONAFI
bonds.



- 23 -
role is to complete the Ivorian entrepreneur's equity contribution in order
to meet BCEAO's rules for discountable medium-term loans guaranteed by the
Guarantee Fund. The Fund can thus provide capital funds for Ivorian enter-
prises up to 15% of investment cost, provided total project cost does not
exceed CFAF 50 million and the entrepreneur's contribution is a minimum of
10%. Decisions are taken by a management committee of five members includ-
ing representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Guarantee
Fund and OPEI. Regulations provide that projects should be studied by OPEI
prior to submission to SONAFI. Up to September 1974, the committee had
approved financing for 33 enterprises (including ten bakeries) and rejected
17 projects (see Annex 6). Capital is provided in the form of loans at 7.5%
interest, which have an average duration of 10 years, including a grace period
corresponding to the duration of the medium-term loan granted by the commer-
cial bank. The loans are subordinated to other debts and are considered as
quasi-equity by BCEAO for discount purposes. At the end of 1974, the Fund's
resources were totally committed and SONAFI has requested a replenishment
from the Government. With the BCEAO's reduction of the minimum equity con-
tribution to 10% of total project cost (para. 3.09), replenishment of the
participation fund is not necessary for the project.
Evaluation of the Promotion Scheme
4.14      The scheme set up to help promote indigenous enterprises is compre-
hensive and the sharp increase in financial assistance extended to small-scale
enterprises in the past few years indicates it has experienced some success.
However, some drawbacks still exist. First, the program is complex; applica-
tions for financial assistance have to be reviewed by a number of institutions
and each must make its own judgment; this is costly and entails long delays.
In addition, the complicated procedures created tensions among the institu-
tions involved and OPEI, who shift the blame on each other for the drawbacks
of the system. Second, OPEI had not performed its role satisfactorily and
needed to be reorganized. Third, financial assistance until now has been
based much more on an evaluation of the guarantees provided by applicants
than on project analysis. Fourth, working capital requirements have not
been adequately met. Finally, appraisal and follow-up capabilities of the
financial institutions have not been sufficiently developed. As described
below, the project seeks to remedy these problems through reorganization of
OPEI which is already underway, financing of SSEs through CCI and procedural
reforms at the Guarantee Fund and BCEAO.
Reorganization of OPEI
4.15      Management.  In view of the weakness of the management and in accord-
ance with Bank's recommendations during project preparation, an Executive
Committee (Comite de Direction) has been formed to determine and periodically
review OPEI's policies, priorities and work program. In addition to OPEI's
General Manager and Director of Operations, the Executive Committee, chosen
from among OPEI's Board members, consists of the Chairman of the Board of
OPEI, one representative of each of the Ministries of Planning, Commerce,
Economy and Finance, and a "Controleur d'Etat", (Government,Commissioner). It
has been agreed that CCI's Director General will be added to the Committee



- 24 -
(para. 4.19). The Executive Committee is expected to meet every two months;
given its small composition and the competence and qualifications of its
members, the committee is expected to play a major role in strengthening,
streamlining and monitoring OPEI's activities.
4.16      Organization.  OPEI's new organization, in line with previous Bank
suggestions, is being implemented (Annex 7). The most significant change is
the creation of an Operations Department which will be the focus of OPEI's
activities. This Department will be responsible for sectoral work and will
have specialized units in the following branches: garages and mechanical
industries, woodworking, bakeries and other food processing, construction,
trade and services, and a general unit which will deal with non-repeat
operations in other branches such as textiles. It will also have a special
staff unit (Synthese and Appui) which will provide general assistance to
the specialized units for initial sector studies, design of promotion
programs, and special services, such as legal and marketing advice. The
newly-appointed Director of Operations, Mr. Vouzon, an Ivorian with OPEI
since 1969, has a university degree in mathematics and electronics, and is
also a trained machinist; he worked in industrial enterprises and for the
Ministry of Planning before joining OPEI. The special staff group will be
staffed mainly by UNIDO experts and Ivorian counterparts. The appraisal
mission stressed the need to have experienced practitioners as technical
assistance experts in the specialized units. One of their main functions
will be to train rapidly their Ivorian counterparts in the specialized units;
the food processing unit has a fairly competent staff, while other specialized
units need reinforcement, especially the woodworking unit. This new organi-
zation is a great improvement over the previous set up and follows in broad
outline Bank suggestions made during project identification and preparation.
4.17      The Directors of Regional Agencies in Man and Bouake will report
to OPEI's General Manager. Seventeen Ivorian professionals are presently
attached to these regional agencies. They are assisted by 14 French practi-
tioners seconded by AFCOPA, who have done a very efficient job in training
local entrepreneurs, both technically and on the managerial side. The Opera-
tions Department and the Regional Agencies will be coordinated by OPEI's
management to minimize or eliminate any potential duplication of effort.
4.18      Budgeting and Accounting.  For the first time, OPEI's 1975 budget
of CFAF 254 million (which excludes expatriate technical assistance costs
estimated at about CFAF 400 million (see para. 4.22)) has been tailored
according to OPEI's specific objectives and program. The largest single
component (Annex 8) will be allocated to the Operations Department for specific
programs. The Director of Operations will be directly responsible to the
Board and Executive Committee for execution of the budget. OPEI's accounts
have also been cleared and a full-time financial controller has been designated
by the Ministry of Economy and Finance; his signature will be needed before
any commitment of expenses, and he will control the execution of the budget.
This is a substantial improvement over OPET's past system (para. 4.04).



- 25 -
4.19      Coordination with CCI.  In addition to CCI Director General's parti-
cipation in the Executive Committee of OPEI, a procedure of close coordination
between OPEI and CCI is being implemented.  OPEI's and CCI's General Manager
will meet once a month to discuss and decide on basic coordination policies
between the two institutions. On the staff level, there will be more frequent
meetings to review investment proposals and coordinate project implementation
and follow-up. During negotiations, a common understanding was reached between
OPEI and CCI on their coordination program.
4.20      Role of UNIDO and Other Expatriate Technical Assistance.  UNIDO,
under a project that started early 1974, has shifted most of its assistance
from the Bureau de Developpement Industriel (BDI), a public agency attached
to the Ministry of Planning and in charge of promoting mainly foreign-owned
large industrial enterprises, to OPEI. The eight experts to be provided under
the UNIDO project will spend about 80% of their time with OPEI in the special
staff group within the Operations Department. In addition, the UNIDO project
envisages using volunteers from Germany and Holland for work within the OPEI
specialized units. The five UNIDO experts now on the job have already sub-
stantially assisted OPEI in the preparation of the branch studies and the
implementation of the new organization chart. In line with the Bank's recom-
mendation that the technical assistance needed would be to replace generalists
with experienced technicians seconded to the specialized units: (i) the Gov-
ernment has sub-mitted to UNIDO a new request for assistance, to provide for
five practitioners who would be allocated to the specialized units, and
(ii) about two-thirds of the non-UNIDO expatriate experts working with OPEI
in Abidjan who have the appropriate skills have been allocated to the specialized
units while the others will remain in the special staff group and will continue
to provide general assistance; it is expected that they will progressively be
replaced by experienced technicians attached to the specialized units.
4.21      An essential element for the ultimate success of the scheme is the
training of Ivorian counterparts who will progressively replace foreign
experts. Such a plan has already been established for assistance provided by
AFCOPA in Man and Bouake, and it is forecast that by the end of 1977 Ivorians
trained in the field or in AFCOPA's training center in France will have
replaced the foreign experts.  The program set up by UNIDO-OPEI for the
branches studied (para. 5.08) also provides for such progressive substitution
of Ivorians for foreign experts.
4.22      OPEI's budget for 1975 (Annex 8) forecasts 40 positions for expat-
riate experts, including those seconded by AFCOPA and the UNIDO experts.
On the basis of a cost per expert estimated roughly at $50,010/year, total
expatriate assistance cost would amount to about CFAF 400 million/year;
about half of this amownt would be paid by French bilateral assistance and
UNIDO (UNDP) and the other half borne by the Government. Including the
approximately CFAF 250 million from direct budgetary appropriations, the
annual cost of OPEI for the Government is about CFAF 450 million/year. The
total cost of OPEI is, thus, some CFAF 650 million per year, financed one-
third each by direct Government budget, indirect Government technical assist-
ance and external grant aid. Identifying those costs directly related to



- 26 -
the project is uncertain as OPEI will continue to serve previous clients as
well as pror,oting new enterprises for commercial banks and other externally-
sponsored programs. The direct -osts of technical assistance to subprojects
appear reasonable (para. 5.06), however. As expensive expatriates leave,
the overall costs of technical assistance and promotion will fall while the
organization reforms already achieved and in progress should further improve
OPEI's cost-effectiveness.



- 27 -
V. THE PROJECT
5.01      Objectives.  The basic objectives of the proposed project are to
provide financial assistance to small entrepreneurs through CCI, to improve
the quality and focus of the technical assistance provided by OPEI, to develop
cooperation between OPEI and CCI, to foster a rationalization in the working
relationships among other institutions involved (i.e., the Guarantee and
Participation Funds) and to learn more about effective SSE promotion, assist-
ance and financing policies and procedures.
5.02      Method.  To be effective, financial assistance to small-scale enter-
prises has to be linked with adequate technical assistance; therefore, a pre-
liminary condition of Bank assistance was an improvement of OPEI's performance,
to be achieved through reorganization and focusing of technical assistance
activities on particular branches, so that multiple subprojects in these
branches could be financed on a repetitive basis. Based on OPEI's experience,
this approach has the major advantage of concentrating technical assistance
manpower resources, thereby developing significant competence in several
branches. Moreover, OPEI's branch studies should provide a common technical,
financial and economic basis for simplified subloan appraisals by CCI which
would, of course, still need to assess the particular subproject and borrower.
Improved coordination between the two institutions under the project should
simultaneously reduce the costs yet improve the quality of technical and
financial assistance provided as it reduces delays in the process. This
experimental approach may also facilitate evaluation of the project's impact,
making it a more valuable experiment for both Ivory Coast and the Bank. The
chief drawback is that not all branches lend themselves to such an approach.
In addition to a number of local markets large enough to support a substantial
number of individual units, branches amenable to this approach should:  (i) have
economies of scale which, at least, do not make small units uncompetitive with
large ones; and, (ii) require a close relationship between the enterprise and
its suppliers and/or clients, e.g., agroprocessing based on local raw materials
and custom service or manufacturing.
5.03      Branches.  The branches already identified by OPEI were and
branches to be identified will be selected on the basis of the following
criteria:
(a)  The branch accounts for a significant part of informal sector
employment and value added and offers development prospects
suitable for small enterprises;
(b) There is potential for a number of reDetitive operations for
small enterprises which use a fairly simple technology, have
relatively unsophisticated and modest investment requirements,
and can be established and assisted on the basis of standard
procedures. This would considerably simplify the administration
of loan processing and permit progressive adaptation at low
cost, of the project design to evolving economic and market
conditions;



- 28 -
(c) Suitable vocational training exists for branch operations
and OPEI is equipped to provide efficient technical assist-
ance for project implementation and supervision;
(d) Investment capital is required.
5.04      On the basis of a list of branches suggested by the Bank, OPEI has
submitted preliminary studies to the Bank for review and approval for wood-
working, garages, clothing, and has reviewed the bakery branch. A study on
contractors and building materials is being prepared. In terms of employment,
these branches account for a large part of the informal secondary sector;
also a significant part of value added in those branches comes from the
informal sector:
Informal sector employ-   Informal sector value-
ment as % of total        added as % of total
branch employment         branch value-added
Construction                              60                         26
Food Industries                           58                         18
Textiles, clothing                        82                        37
Woodworking                               52                        18
Repair of transport equipment             62                        20
5.05      Details on the four branches studied are given in Annex 23.  Three
branches - woodworking, garages and bakeries - appear to be suitable for the
approach taken in the project; repetitive operations appear feasible, satis-
factory vocational training exists, and suitable technical assistance from
*OPEI can be expected. Garment-making did not appear suitable for the "repeti-
tive" approach. Although a number of artisanal enterprises exist, and though
some small-scale enterprises have been successful in satisfying specific
markets (even some abroad), there does not seem to be room for promotion of
SSEs on a "model basis" since each enterprise has to be designed on the basis
of a specific market demand. Suitable projects in this branch, could, however,
be financed on a case-by-case basis. Based on "model" small-scale enterprises
designed by OPEI and reviewed by the Bank, and estimates for subprojects to
be financed outside the branches, it can be conservatively estimated that over
the next three years, subprojects could be financed under the project as
follows:



- 29 -
Table 5: Project Characteristics
Average invest-
Number of    ment cost per    Total invest-  Bank
Enterprises  enterprise        ment cost       financing /1   Employment
Branches       Promoted       (CFAF million)   (CFAF million) (CFAF million) Generated
Woodworking          24         18.7                 450             270           480
Bakeries             20         20.0                 400             250           240
Garages              35          7.8                 270             150           260
Other branches
(including
textiles)          50         15.0                 750             450           650
Total          129        14.5                1,870           1,120        1,630
/1   With Bank financing through CCI 60% of investment cost.
5.06      Cost per job to be created in the branches studied amount to about
$5,700 as compared to an estimated average of $11,000 (1971 and 1972) in
industry generally. Estimated financial rates of returns excluding technical
assistance costs from OPEI for projects are: 25% for bakeries, 28% for
woodworking enterprises, and 33% for garages; economic rates of return are
estimated at roughly the same levels. Approximate allocations of the cost
of technical assistance to individual subprojects reduce the returns but
they remain above 12%; similarly, including the present value of the tech-
nical assistance costs with investment costs increases the cost per job to be
created to an average $8,700. About half of the expatriate technical assist-
ance is financed under bilateral and multilateral grant funds (FAG and UNIDO/
UNDP) and therefore is not borne by the Government. Taking into account only
the out-of-pocket costs borne by the Government, average costs per job
created including technical assistance amounts to about $7,300. The above
figures, however, are highly tentative given the difficulty of estimating
and allocating the cost of technical assistance to any particular enterprise.
5.07      On the basis of OPEI's past experience and the present demands pre-
sented to it, the availability of potential entrepreneurs is not expected
to be a constraint. However, whether they are former workers or already
established promoters most of these entrepreneurs lack adequate experience and
training in technical and organizational skills. Thus, the availability of
satisfactory assistance in project design and follow-up will be a decisive
element for the program.
5.08      In the framework of its overall budget (Annex 8), OPEI has made
preliminary forecasts of its personnel requirements with the help of the UNIDO
team for the branches identified so far. The number of foreign advisors,
reduced from the original plans, is as follows:



- 30 -
ist Year            2nd Year              3rd Year
Woodworking             1                    2                    2
Bakeries                2                    2                     1
Garages                 2                    3                     3
5                    7                    6
These estimates are based on the assumptions that: (i) needs for technical
assistance for each enterprise promoted will progressively decrease after
startup and the entrepreneurs gain experience, and (ii) foreign experts will
gradually be replaced by trained Ivorians.
5.09      Typical Financing Schemes.  It is envisaged that for the projects
financed under the proposed Bank loan, sources of finance would be as follows:
Long-term loans from CCI (up to 15 years)
from proceeds of the Bank loan ........ up to 60% of project cost
Rediscountable medium-term loans from
commercial banks or CCI .....     .......... 0 to 30% of project cost
Equity contributions ......     .............. 10 to 40% of project cost
Long-term subordinated loans from
SONAFI's Participation Fund .... ....... 0 to 15% of project cost
5.10      The 60% proportion is a rough estimate of the overall foreign
exchange component of project costs in the identified branches, but it may
represent, in some cases, some local cost financing. A grace period corres-
ponding to the duration of the medium-term discountable loan (3-4 years)
would be granted, in accordance with BCEAO's regulations.
5.11      The long-term loans made by CCI from Bank funds would carry an
interest rate of 12%, leaving a 3.5% spread over the cost of the Bank loan,
as follows:
Without          With
Guarantee      Guarantee
-- percent per annum ---
IBRD Loan                 8.50            8.50
Administrative costs      1.50            1.50
Risk premium              1.40            0.40
Guarantee fee                -            1.00
Profit to CCI             0.60            0.60
Onlending rate      12.00           12.00



- 31 -
Administrative costs are projected at about 1.5% of subloans. In the past,
CCI experienced a 8.7% default rate on loans to artisans and small enter-
prises. Given the technical assistance to be provided by OPEI for project
implementation and supervision, a 5% final default rate can be envisaged;
thus, the required minimum risk premium would be about 1.4% (Annex 24).  When
CCI seeks the coverage of the Guarantee Fund, 1% of the spread would go to
the Fund as a fee; as the Fund generally covers only 70% of the loan outstand-
ing, CCI would need to retain part of the risk premium. The marginal profit
element for CCI (0.6%) is in line with its return on other lending but would
not contribute significantly to increasing its equity in real terms. The
12% rate compares to the 11% charged now by BIDI on its long-term loans and
the 11.5% (including a foreign exchange fee of 1%) charged by CCI for its
long-term loans made to hotel promoters out of Bank funds.
5.12      Hlaving the commercial banks grant the medium-term loans aims at
associating them for financing working capital requirements (short-term loans,
discounting of bills, etc.) of the enterprises promoted. Excluding the
value-added tax (taxe de prestation de service or TPS) imposed on most interest
charges, the cost of medium-term discountable loans averages 8.25% (including
up to 1% being possibly transferred to the Guarantee Fund as a fee). Since
commercial banks operations are not exempt from TPS (19.05%), total interest
charges would be raised to 9.82%, unless special measures are taken by the
Government to exempt small-scale operations from TPS; although the TPS is
deductible from value added taxes charged on sales, it is not evident that
SSEs pay value added taxes.
5.13      The above scheme includes the possibility of recourse to the Gua-
rantee Fund and SONAFI's Participation Fund. Recourse to these funds would
not be automatic, but determined by CCI on a case-by-case basis. The Guarantee
Fund appears a useful tool for the success of the project; during negotiations
assurances were received that this Fund is being replenished and that loans
guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund will bear a normal interest rate including
a fee to be transferred to the Fund. Also, in order to simplify the adminis-
tration and shorten the delays, the Government is considering the possibility
of having these Funds administered by a single body; since a resolution on
this particular point is not vital to the implementation of the project, this
merger is not a condition of the loan.
The Proposed Bank Loan
5.14      Axiount.  Based on the operational programs defined above, a loan of
$5.6 million would, over a three-year period, cover approximately 60% of sub-
project investment costs; $3.4 million would be allocated to the identified
branches, leaving up to $2.2 million for subprojects in branches to be iden-
tified later or for individual subprojects. OPEI would maintain a non-
specialized unit to assist this latter group of entrepreneurs. In the event
OPEI's branch program is implemented faster than projected, a part of these
$2.2 million could be reallocated to identified branches.



- 32 -
5.15      Definition of final borrowers.  The loan would be onlent to small-
scale enterprises defined as follows:
(i)  enterprises in the secondary sector or tertiary sector;
(ii)  enterprises having total assets of below CFAF 40 million,
including the assets financed under the program. Enter-
prises in the identified branches will be well below this
limit, and investment requirements of enterprises above
this amount can be met by other sources such as BIDI, the
commercial banks and CCI in consortia;
(iii)  in line with the Government Ivorianization policy, enter-
prises should be Ivorian, i.e., belonging to an Ivorian
national or in case of corporations, with 51% of more
of their shares owned by Ivorian nationals. In addition,
management of these enterprises should be Ivorian nationals.
During negotiations agreement was reached on this definition.
5.16      Subloan Procedures.  All subloans would be subject to appraisal by
CCI whose appraisal capabilities will be strengthened by additional staff
and an advisor in the Operations Department (para. 3.13). Technical assistance
from OPEI would be provided to subborrowers when needed and it is expected that
essentially all entrepreneurs to borrow under the project would seek such assist-
ance; CCI could require a subborrower to obtain such assistance when it deemed
appropriate. The minimum subloan would be CFAF 1 million (US$5,000). Subloans
to SSEs in the branches identified or to be identified would be made on the
basis of a study of the branch and a model subproject, both subject to approval
by the Bank. Subloans outside these branches could be committed by CCI up to
an individual free limit of CFAF 10 million (US$50,000) and an aggregate free
limit of US$1.t million; beyond these limits, individual subloans would be
subject to Bank review.
5.17      Disbursements would initially follow normal procedures on the basis
of CCI's subloan disbursements. Given CCI's good control of disbursements
(para. 3.17), experience with early disbursements may well permit simplifica-
tion of these procedures. The Bank would reimburse CCI for 100% of its dis-
bursements for long-term subloans, expected to represent up to 60% of a total
project cost.  The independent auditors (para. 3.29) and supervision missions
would check on disbursements' performance and procedures.
5.18      Repayment.  Given the number of operations expected to be financed
out of the loan (about 130) and the fact that amortization of loans will range
from 7 to 15 years, averaging 8 to 10 years, it is proposed that a fixed amorti-
zation schedule be attached to the loan, which would be repaid over 15 years
including three years of grace. This means that CCI could roll over the loan
funds about once. Although recommitments would not be subject to Bank approval,
it was agreed that the funds would be relent in the SSE sector and CCI would
apply the same criteria and procedures as outlined above.



- 33 -
5.19      Foreign Exchange Risk.  In contrast to historic credit patterns in
Ivory Coast and the Franc Zone generally, with almost all loans denominated
in either French or CFA francs, subborrowers are expected to assume the full
foreign exchange risk under the project. However, if this proves to be a
serious disincentive for the numerous SSE subborrowers, Government may decide
to assume the risk possibly with an appropriate fee as compensation, as was
agreed under the Tourism Development Project. Since the proposed 12% onlending
interest rate is projected to result in an adequate real positive cost of
capital and considering the costs of alternative sources of capital, these
arrangements are considered satisfactory.
5.20      Procurement.  Equipment to be procured under the loan would be
small, mostly imported, but purchased from local distributors. Most projects
would involve financing construction of buildings; the construction industry
seems efficient and competitive. Under its normal procurement procedures,
CCI will ensure that suitable goods are procured at reasonable prices.
5.21      Supervision.  Since the project has experimental features, adequate
supervision will be an important element to review actual results and to gain
operational experience from this pilot project. It is therefore expected
that missions will be sent every six months during the commitment period of
the project. CCI would send quarterly reports on loans approved, disbursed
and outstanding, with details on the other resources and cost of financing
and the guarantees obtained (including the use of the Guarantee Fund), on the
basis of formats agreed with the Bank. CCI and OPEI would prepare an annual
review of projects financed in the various branches to determine what has
been achieved, whether lending should continue on that particular branch,
and whether specific new arrangements (technical assistance, training, etc.)
might be required. Supervision would also eventually cover utilization of
funds rolled-over (para. 5.18). The above arrangements were agreed upon
during negotiations.
Benefits and Justification
5.22      The achievement of the objectives of this project would result in
substantial economic and social benefits to the Ivory Coast, including adequate
returns on investments by indigenous businesses, an opportunity for the develop-
ment of local management capacity and the broadening of business ownership.
The project would also help to support Government policies to achieve a more
balanced regional development. As detailed in the Bank Employment Report,
SSE have a substantial labor absorption potential, which the project should
help to-realize. It would also have important institution building effects
on OPEI and CCI.
5.23      Based on our reviews of the branch studies done by OPEI, some direct
economic benefits can be quantified: the $5.6 million loan would be related
to total investment of about $9.4 million. This would permit the establish-
ment or promotion of some 130 Ivorian small-scale enterprises and the creation
of some 1,600 jobs, at an average investment cost per job of around $5,700.
Total value added created is conservatively estimated to be on the order of



- 34 -
CFAF 1.5 billion ($7.5 million) annually with average value added oer emnlo,C-
estimated at $4,600. These figures are only broad indicators; however, they
help illustrate the prospective merits of the project.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points:
(i) from CCI:
(a)  financing plans (para. 5.09);
(b)  onlending terms and conditions (paras. 5.11 and 5.19),
(c)  subloan review procedures (para. 5.16); and
(d)  definition of eligible enterprises (para. 5.15).
(ii)  from OPEI:
(a)  criteria for branch selection (para. 5.03);
(b)  coordination with CCI (para. 4.19); and,
(iii)  from Government, replenishment and fee for the Guarantee
Fund (para. 5.13).
6.02      The following issues were discussed and common understandings
reached:
(i)  BCEAO's SSE promotional measures (para. 3.09); and,
(ii) monitoring and supervision of project execution
(para. 5.21).
6.03      Satisfactory agreements on the above points having been reached,
the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of $5.6 million.



IVORY COAST
Origin of G.D.P. at Current Prices
-(FAF billion)
Industry                     1965    1968    1969       1970     1971     1972     1973
Mining                               1.7      1.10     1.1      0.9      1.3      1.5      1.8
Cereals and flour                    2.6      3.9      3.5      4.2      4.6      5.5      6.8
Canning and food preservation        1.5      2.4      2.5      3.8      4.5      6.o      4.9
Beverages, ice                       0.8      1.3      1.6      2.3      2.7      3.0      3.4
Oils and fats                        0.9      1.1      1.1      2.2      2.4      2.3      3.6
Other food industries                1.7      2.1      2.1      2.8      3.6      3.9      4.4
Textile and clothing                 4.3      7.0      7.6      8.8      9.7    11.6    11.0
Leather, footwear                    0.4      0.9      0.9      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.2
Forest industry                      3.8      3.6      3.7      4.2      3.8      4.3      6.1
Petroleum products                   1.1      8.6    10.3    10.9    11.7    14.6    15.5
Chemical products, plastics
and fertilizer                     1.2      2.1      2.4      3.0      3.3      3.7      3.7
Rubber products                      0.04     0.2      0.4      0.5      0.9      0.4      0.5
Construction material                0.2               1        1.5'     1.5      1.5      1.5
Material industry                    0.1      0.2      0.3      0.5      0.6      0.5      0.5
Construction and repair
transport material                 2.7      3.6      4.3      5.0      6.1      6.6      8.1
Other mechanical and
electrical industries              1.2      1.6      2.1      2.6      3.2      4.0      4.5
Other industrial products            1.3      1.8      1.9      2.3      2.7      2.9      3.2
Electrical energy                    2.1      3.4      4.1      4.6      4.8      5.7      6.3
Total Industry             27.8    45.3    51.1    61.1    68.o    79.0    87.0
Primary sector                      84.9   101.1   108.2   112.6   117.6   125.1   159.2
Construcion'                        12.8    16.8    17.7    27.9    33.4    32.5    34.5
Transport                           21.0    26.5    30.8    31.9    37.6    42.2    53.1
Services                            46.8    83.7    99.5   112.3   108.8   114.3   136.6                 H
Administration, Import duties       43.5         51.1    56.7    68.2    73.8    78.5    93.6
Total G.D.P.              236.8   324.5   364.0   414.0   439.2   471.6   564.o
Source: Ministry of Planning
DFCD
January 15, 1975



A.T EX 2
Page 1
IVORY COAST
Assistance Provided by AFCOPA
Tne Association Francaise de Cooperation, de Formation et de
Promotion Artisanale (AFCOPA) was established in 1968 to provide technical
assistance to small entrepreneurs in French-speaking African countries.
Assistance is rendered by French practitioners -- technicians who have at
least five years of technical experience in small- and medium-scale enter-
prises in France and are seconded to African countries after special training
in AFCOPA's training center in France.  This center, sponsored bv the "Chambre
des Metiers" (Association of Artisans and Craftsmen) offers a si--mointh
training for about 50 persons/year, most of them having experience in con-
struction, repairs, mechanics, and electricity branches. Training is sanc-
tioned by a diploma (Brevet de Maitrise, Mastership Certificate). Training
aims at reinforcing the professional qualifications of participants, develop-
ing their capabilities for training, and teaching the minimum required
management techniques for their possible switch from salaried employee to
entrepreneur. For Africans who have attended the first course, supplementary
training is provided in an enterprise (3 months) and they attend another three
month management course. During 1975, 18 Africans from Ivory Coast and Upper
Volta are being provided training under this scheme.
AFCOPA has provided assistance to the Office of Promotion of SSE's
in Upper Volta (OPEV) since 1971. It has seconded to OPEV 10 technicians
under a program financed by French bilateral assistarice which is nearly
completed. Reportedly, this experience has been a reasonable success.
The program of assistance to OPEI in Ivory Coast also financed by
French bilateral assistance consists of seconding to OPEI's regional agencies
in Man and Bouake a total of 15 technicians to promote small Ivorian enter-
prises in the construction branch and related activities (carpentry, cabinet-
making, painting, plumbing, electricity, and mechanics). The program started
at the end of 1973, and is expected to be completed by the end of 1977;
Ivorian counterparts presently trained either in Man/Bouake or in AFCOPA's
training center in France will progressively substicute for French technicians,
according to a plan agreed between AFCOPA, OPEI and the Ministry of Planning.
Although quantifying the results of AFCOPA's action is not possible,
it seems that its assistance has been successful and well accepted. Under
the assistance program, AFCOPA seconded technicians have (i) started by taking
a census of the existing Ivorian SSEs (about 160 in Man and 400 in Bouake),
(ii) gained the confidence of the Ivorian entrepreneurs through demonstrating
their technical qualification and experience: (iii) progressively evolved from
a pure "technical" assistance to one involving advice on such matters as
calculation of production costs, determination of prices, establishment of
a minimal accounting system, submission of bids to public orders, and
organization planning.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
AFCOPA's assistance scheme thus resulted in progressively ensuring
that small Ivorian enterprises can sell products or render services of good
quality at reasonable prices, leaving reasonable profits to the entrepreneur.
Another objective achieved has been to select from among the entrepreneurs
those who demonstrate sufficient managerial capabilities to develop their
businesses either through investment programs or through absorption of weaker
competitors. This process should result in rationalizing the market and improv-
ing the quality and image of Ivorian SSEs.
DFCD
April 1, 1975



OPEI'S ACTIVITIES 1968-1973
Number of Enterprises Assisted
Assistance involving preparation of a loan application
Total      A               A + L                                                                                                           Assistance without recourse to banks
by       +L     1      2        3       4                   L             Marketing         Under        Promotional                            Study              Marketing         Under
Sector   +F   Year  Years  Years  Years              L      Refused        Assistance        Study        Studies that did            F          given to           Assistance        Study
not result in a                        promoters
I       I         _        _                                                        project                                                _
Agriculture          38       2      1       1                          2          3                              5                  16                  2                1                 1              4
Forestry             10                      1                          2                                                             1                  1                                                  5
Fishing               5                                                 1                                         1                                      3
Quarries             10                      1       1                  4           2                             1                   I
Bakeries             64              6       6       3                 12                                         6                                                                                       31
Agro-business         6                                                 1                                                                                1                                  2               2
Textiles             25       3              1       1                  1           1                             4                   3                  5                                  1               5
Wood-Industry        67       1       1      1               6          9           3             10              3                   5                 15                                                 13
Chemicals             3              1                                                                                                1                  1
Construction
materials          11                                                2                                          2                   4                  1                                                  2
Mechanical
repairs           16                                                 3                                          3                   2                  2                1                 2              3
Mechanical
industries        10        1                                        1           2                                                  1                  2                1                                2
Paper,printing       12       2      1       1                          2                                         2                                      2                1                                 1
Construction         43                              1                 10           1                             1                   8                 17                                  1               4
Transport            22              1                                  4           3                             3                   2                  3                                                  6
Real Estate           5              1       1                          1                                                                                1                                                  1
Services            106       2      6       6       1       1          7           7                            16                  17                 13               15                 4              11
Trade               123              5       7                         22           8                            15                  21                 13                5                 2              25
Other Sectors         7                                                                                           1                   2                  1                1                                 2
Schools              19       1                                         7           1                             1                   6                                   1                 1               1
602      12    23      26        7       7                    91               10            64                   u                 83               2                 14             118
A =  Assistance for preparation and implementation of a project
L = The enterprise obtained capital financing from a bank with OPEI's assistance
F = Assistance after implementation of a project
DFCD
March 27, 1975



OPEI
Projects assisted (1968-73)2"
Total
Number of    investment      Loan      Bmployment              Bank concerned
Sector               enterprises      cost        financing   generated       CCI   SGBCI   BI CI CI   Others
(projects)        (CFAF million)
Agriculture                  5  (7)      76.7           53.8          52            -     1          _      6
Forestry                     3  (3)       82o6          44.4         103            _     1          2      -
Fishing                      1  (1)        2.8           0.4          10            -     1          -      _
Quarries                     5  (5)     114.5           75.6         1h0            2     1          1      1
Bakeries                    27 (27)     321.3          230.2         359            6    10          5      6
Agrobusiness                 1  (1)       46.o          34h1          62            -     -          -      1
Textile                      8  (9)       28.2          25.7          50            2     1          3      3
Woodworking                 14 (14)       63.2          50.7         132            6     2          4      2
Chemicals                    1  (1)      39.0           250o          12            -     -          1      -
Construction mateiials       2  (2)      10.1            9.6          19            -     2          -      -
Mechanical repairs           3  (3)       47.5          31,6          58            1     1          1       -
Other mechanicals            3  (3)       25,9          19.7          42            1     -          2      -
Printing, paper              6  (6)     137.6           50,8          74            1     -          2      3
Construction                11 (11)      65.2           63,5         112            7     2          2      -
Transport                    5  (5)      18.8           15.1          22            -     2          2      1
Real estate                  3  (3)       23,4          18.2          27            1     -          -       2
Other services              22 (22)     191.8          136,8         128            5     7          5      5
Commerce                    32 (32)      271,6         201b.4        124            2    13         11      6
Schools                      7  (7)     112.9           89,0         115            -     3          2      2
Total           159(162)    1679,1          1175.6       1641           34    47         43      38
SSEs which received bank financing with OPEI's assistance.
DFCD
April 4, 1975



STATUS OF OPERATIONS OF TlE GUARANTEE FUND AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1974
(CFAF million)
Number of Enterprises         Amount of Credits to Enterprises                       Guarantees Provided                                                    Defaults
Financing                        In Sectors               In Sectors            Total                In Sectors          Total   Outstandin             Amounts  7. of Guarantees  2 of Maturities   Number of
Institution          Total  Secondary  TertiarY       Secondary  Tertiary         T              Secondary  Tertiary                          g                      Provided              Due              Enterprises
SGBCI                  46       16         30             220       319           539               143        225          368       206                 42.2          11.4               25.8                 14
BICICI                 26       12         14             129       202           331               100        149          249       151                 34.3          13.7               35.0                   5
CCI                    20        7         13              71       130           201                50         90          140       100                  8.3           5.9               20.7                   9
BIDI                    7        7          -             265         -           265               157          -          157       106                  9.6           6.1               18.8                   5
SIB                     7        2          5              45       110           155                36         89          125        69                   1.3          1.0                2.2                   2
BIAO                    7         1          6             11        82            93                 7         57           64        54                   1.1          1.7               11.0                   2
Total      113       45         68             741       843        1,584                503        610       1,103        686                 96.8          39.8              27.1                  37
DFCD
April 1, 1975
x



ANNEx 6
SONAFI
Operations of the Participation Fund
(as of September 1974)
Projects Accepted
10 bakeries representing loans totalling . . . . . . . CFAF 16,6 million
3 pharmacies representing loans totalling . . . . .   "    7.7   "
3 laundries representing loans totalling e...oo. "0            h7 4
1 butchery representing loans totalling .... .......  "    1"9
5 small industrial enterprises representing loans
totalling *voooooooeooooo***oo*ooovooooeoooo    1lo  13.2
7 small commercial enterprises representing loans
totalling o*oo** o0o0oo0*,****0o0*****.,0*,****o,,  "    7,1
4 small service enterprises representing loans
totalling                                                6'0
33 Enterprises                                          CFAF 57.6 million
In addition 19 projects had been rejected or adjourned, representing
loan requests totalling about CFAF 60 million.
DFCD
April 14, 197 5



OPET'S ORGANIZATION CHART
(as of February 1975)
|Board of Directors (18)|
Steering Commietee (6) 
I  Gneral Manager                                                              Financial Controller 
~~ - i   ~~1 P+8 E.                                                                                   IF  1 
I       _ L          _                    | General ~~~~~~~~Secretary [                                                                        1E|
Regional Agency                    Regional Agency                                3E
Man                      ~~~~~~Bouake  ll
13PS                                                                                                        2E lo                                          I Tpirogaig Pool  d
Administration, Finance
Accounts    Pesone         Supplies
General Assistance                                                                              l
(Synthese & Appui)                                                           Specialized Units
1P            IF            1E                                                      21  Z.E_
General       Regional      Documenta-                           Food          Trade       Garagee   Textile                   Construction
Assistance   Assistance   t4on           Design                  Processing   Services   Repairs   Other  i           Wod    Building
Indlustries             Materials
3P              1P          IP  1E        2E                       7P            6P         4P            6P           2P          6P
Total:        126 persons:
Professionals:       39  Ivorians
25  Expatriates
5  UNIDO experts                                                                                          Breakdown of Professional staff
3  Volunteers                                                                                             Management, General neCretary         8  Professionals  (2 expatriates)
72                                                                                                         Direction of Operations                3                   1
Specialized Units            31                   14
54                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Synthese aod Appui     
Non professionals:  54                                                                                                                                                                     1
PNProfessional  profe6Regional Agencies                                                                                                                               23       "            it
P    Professional                                                                                                                                                                   72______onas  
B e Non professional                                                                                                                                                                       pr s
DFCD
March 18, 1975



O P E I
Proposed Budget for 1975 1
(CFAF  Million)                           STAFF(Number of_Positions)
Other Admi-n-                                Total               Expatriate
Salaries      istrative ;osts      Total      Total       Professional s           Experts
General Management          30.6                6.6            37.2       22               4                     2
Direction Administration
and Finance                21.8               68.8 d          90.6        21              4                     _
Direction of Operations
Management             15.2                1.6            16.8        12              3                     1
General Assistance
Group                 6.6              21.4 3/         28.0        10               7                    5
Specialized Units:
Garages               2.4               2.3             4.7         4               4                    2
Wood                  3.2               1.8              5.0        6               6
Textiles, other
Industries          5.0               0.7             5.7         6              6                     3
Foodstuffs            5.0               6.3            11.3         7               7                     4
Trade, Services      13.7               0.7            14.4         6               6                     3
Sonstruction,
Building Materials  8.2                2.1            10.3         7               7                    2
Subtotal Direction of                          36.9            96.2        58             46                    23
Operations                                3.               625                        62
Regional Agencies
Man                    10.6                6.6            17.2        23             16                     6
Bouak6                  7.4                5.4            12.8        19             16                     9
Subtotal         IT. o-                            30.0      --'7- T77 W17-
TOTAL BUDGET  122.7              124.3           254.0       143             86                    40
Plus: Exceptional Equipment Grant:    30.6
2814.6
j    Cost of expatriates is not included in OPEI's budget.  Breakdown of
Expatriates:  UNIDO        5
Volunteers 3
AFCOPA    15
Others    17
j    Of which rents:  34.4
3/   Allocated for special studies:  15
DFCD
April 13, 1975



ANNEX 9
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Board of Directors
(As at September 30, 1974)
Chairman        M. KONE ZOUMANA, General Manager, Socite pour 1'Or-
ganisation de la Distribution des Produits Agricoles
et Alimentaires (AGRIPAC)
Vice Chairman   CAISSE CENTRALE DE COOPERATION ECONOMIQUE, represented
by M. Michel Penent, Resident Representative
M. AMANLAN KASSY Georges, Union Leader
BANQUE CENTRALE DES ETATS DE L'AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST
represented by M. Jean Charpentier, Director;/
M. BLEDOU Konan, Manager of the Societe de Gestion
Financi6re de lI'Habitat (SOGEFIHA)
LA CAISSE AUTONOME D'AMORTISSEMENT, represented by
M. Andre Hovine, Director2/
M. DIOULO Edmond, Ministry of Construction and Ur-
banism
M. KOFFI N'GUESSAN Andre, General Secretary, Fonds
de Garantie des Credits aux Entreprises Ivoiriennes
M. KOUASSI N'TE, Chef du Cabinet, Ministry of Planning
M. LECLERC Jacques, Chief of the Mission d'Aide et de
Cooperation
M. TIEBA OUATTARA, Depute-Questeur, National Assembly
M. YAPOBI Guillaume, Economic and Social Adviser
Government
Commissioner   M. COULIBALY Alassane, State Controller, Ministry of
the Economy and Finance.
/ Subsequently replaced by M. L. Diabate
v Subsequently replaced by M. Leon Naka



ANNEX 10
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Personnel
(As at June 30, 1974)
Professional    Nonprofessional    Total
Office of the Director General                 2                 1               3
Operations Department
Director                                     1                 -               1
Credit Division                              2                15              17
Execution Division                           1                 8               9
Technical Division                           1                 2               3
5               25              30
Finance and Administration Department
Director                                     1                 -               1
Recovery Division                            2                16              18
Accounting Division                          1                17              18
Administration Division                      1                37              38
Data Processing Division                     2                10              12
7               80              87
Inspection Department and Branches
Inspector General                            1                 1               2
Bouake                                       1                11              12
Daloa                                        1                 8               9
Korhogo                                      1                 7               8
Abengourou                                   1                 2               3
5               29              34
Total                          19               135             154
DFCD
January 14, 1975



CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Organization Chart
r BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Director General
(2)
Director of Operations                                                                         Director, Finance & Admin.
(proposed)
|   Hotel  l  l        Credit                Execution              Technical                 Accounting               Recovery             Administration          Data Processing
(1)        12)                    ~~      ~       ~      ~~~     ~~(4)  (1)  |(1)                           (2)                     ()(2)
|I nsPector-General 
KILl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Branches:         Bouake                   Dala                      Korhogo                AbengouroC
World Bank-9618(R)
Refers to number of professional employees in department.



ANNEX 12
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Extracts of Policy Statement
Para. 3. Enterprises that submit projects to the company shall be
required to have efficient management, be financially sound, have satisfactory
market prospects for their production, be able to generate an adequate finan-
cial return on investment and, more generally, contribute to the economic and
social growth of the country. The company shall extend its assistance on the
basis of economic and financial criteria only.
Para. 7. The total amount of loans granted by the company together
with its participation and other commitments of a financial nature in favor
of a single enterprise will normally not exceed 20% of the company's equity.
Para. 8. The company will take adequate steps to protect itself
from exchange risks in respect of those of its borrowings that are repayable
in foreign currencies.
Para. 9. The company's borrowers shall keep their accounts in
accordance with generally accepted sound accounting principles. The company
shall take the steps necessary to have the right to periodically visit and
control the enterprises it finances.
Para. 10. The company shall strive to develop and maintain a solid
and well balanced organization with qualified management. It shall give
special and continuous attention to the training of its professional staff both
local.ly and abroad.
Para. 11. The company shall normally limit its share participation
to 20% of the share capital of any given enterprise. The company will not
normally assume managerial responsibilities in enterprises it assists. It
may, however, by unanimous decision of its Board, and after approval of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, exceed the above percentage and even assume
managerial responsibility if this is justified by the circumstances or the
nature of the enterprise.
para. 27. When deciding upon the amount and form of financial
assistance it shall provide, the company shall take into account all of the finan-
cial requirements of the project and the financial situation of the enterprise
in question. In principle, the company shall not finance more than 50% of the
total cost of the project. It may, however, exceed this limit if there is
a special justification, but in any case it shall not finance more than 80%
of the total project cost. The company shall ensure that the promoter will
make a reasonable contribution in the form of equity or cash generation, to
the realization of the project.



CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Interest Rates
(percent per annum)
(As at September 30, 1974)
Primary        Cost to      Spread to        Lending
Source           CCI          CCI              Rate                 Remarks
Short term (up to 2 yrs.)
Automobile               BCEAO (CAA)      6.50     9.50-13.50      16.00-20.00 )  ( Fixed commission of 8% for 1 yr.
Household Equipment      BCEAO            5.50    10.50-16.50      16.00-22.00 )  ( and 10 or 11% for 2 yrs.
Medium term (2-7 yrs)                                                            a/
Housing - individual     BCEAO            5.50     1.25-5.50        6.75-11.00       Rate varies according to location
and use, lower outside cities and
for owner-occupied, higher in
cities and for rental. Rate
usually initially set at 11% and
reduced as appropriate..
Housing - companies      BCEAO            5.50        1.50            7.00           Guaranteed by Government.
Coimerce, artisans     ( BCEAO            5.50 )                              a/
and industry        ( CM               6.50 )   1.00-7.50        6.50-11.00      Lower rates for largest private
( USAID           3.50 )                                    and parastatal firms.
Long term (7-10 yrs.)
Housing - individual     CAM              7.00     1.00-4.00        8.00-11.00      Usually blended with medium-
term loan.
Industry -               CAA              7.00     1.00-3.00        8.00-10.00      Usually blended with medium-
term loan.
Communities              CCCE             6.50        2.00             8.50
a/  Individual housing loans generally and small industrial loans occasionally include in the principal the
processing costs of outside legal and architectural services.  Since such costs may be 5-10% of the loan
amount, effective lending rates may be that much higher than stated.
DFCD
January 19, 1975



CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Loan Approvals
(CFAF million)
1969             1970            1971              1972             1973            1974
No.    Amt.      No.    Amt.    No.    Amt.        No.    Amt.      No.    Amt.    No.    Amt.
Short term (up 2-yrs,)
Auto - private             586     241      673    261       971    409        701    367      562      379    601       410
Auto - truckers              -       -        -       -        -       -        68    263       30      155       8       41
Household equipment    9,297       636   9,566    687   11,752    878    9,719    810   7,483           648 11,438   1,317
Commerce & artisans          9       7       16      10       19       5        49     14       66       22      29       13
Industry                     -       -            -        -           -         -       -       -        -       -        -
Housing - individual         -        -       2       1         -      -         5       2       1        1       5        2
9,892     884  10,257    959   12,742  1,292   10,542  1,456    8,142  1,205 12,081   1,783
Medium term (2-7 yrs,)
Housing - individuals    227       429       68    288        225   505        399    672       915  1,440    347   1,224
Housing - companies          4      56        2    623           3 2,225         5  1,546          1  1,194       3   1,599
Commerce & artisans         16      44       61    123         53    94         77    198        78    136    121        573
Industry                     3     125        1    215           1   160         1    204          -      -      10   2,151
250     654      132  1,249        282 2,984        482  2,620       994  2,770    481   5,547
Long term (over 7 yrs.)
Housing - individuals       429    643      331    542        287   502        522    753        840  1,056    288       539
Commerce & artisans           -      -        3       9          -     -         -       -         4     32       -        -
Industry                      1    158        2      75          1    10         2    250          -       -      3      238
Communities                   3    275        3    318           2   342         1    200          2    360       -        -
433  1,076      339    944         290   854       525  1,203        846  1,448    291       777
TOTAL            10,575  2,614  10,728  3,152    13,314 5,130   11,549  5,279    9,982  5,423 12,853   8,107
DFCD
December 11, 1974



CREDIT DE LA COTE: D'IVOIRE
Equity Investments (As at September 30, 1974)
(CFAF million)
CCI %
% of     Provisions   Dividends Share capital  of company's
Company      Activity           Subscribed   Disbursed   portfolio  for losses (latest year)of company_   capital
SATMACI   Technical consulting       4.00        4.00         14          1.80           -           40           10
CAPRAL    Food processing            2.50        2.50          9             -       4.93            50            5
SIETHO    Hotel management           2.00         2.00         7          1.80           -             5          40
SICOGERE  Property management        3.94        3.94         13             -       0007            10           39
SICOGI    Housing                    0.95         0o95         3             -       0.05           600             *
BIDi      Development bank           1000         1.00         3             -           -          700             *
COMFMECI   Development bank         15.00       15.00         51             -           -          300            5
29.39                    100
Total--
* less than 1%.
DFCD
JANUARY 19, 1975



ANNEX 16
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Balance Sheets (as at September 30)
(CFAF million)
1970     1971       1972       1973      1974
ASSETS
Cash and bank deposits                 (48)       23       210        221        163
Receivables                             24         9         15         6          6
Other                                   20        24         28        2
Total current                                  m                    25         262
Short-term loans                       706       997     1,204      1,204      1,494
Medium-term loans                    1,369    2,490      3,513      3,853      5,730
Long-term loans                      4.92_     4960      4 862      4.960      5,603
Subtotal                           7,001   8Th17       9,575    10,017    12,27
Doubtful and in litigation             278       4o4       48o        647        741
Less:  Provisions                               (238)      (266)     (358)      (461)
Net portfolio                      7,094    8,613      9,793    10,306    13,107
Equity investments                      16        16         16        10         24
Less:  Provisions                        X                   (4
Net equities                         10         9                    6         20
Other investments                       17        21         26        43         55
Land                                     4         4          5         5          5
Buildings (net)                         30        65         55        60        164
Equipment (net)                         15        24         36        33         52
TJnder construction                      2         2          1        71         1
Total fixed                           519 97                         X         234
TOTAL                              7,168    8,794    10,17?    10,780    13,680
LIABILITISS
BCEAO                                    -         -       266        286        392
CAA                                     90       250       325        207        324
Sight deposits                           5         5         10        13         13
Security deposits                       98       152       296        201        121
Payables and other                                95       114        126        180
Total current                       24        5        1,011         3       1,031
BCEAO                                  943    2,124      3,022      3,205      4,833
CCCE                                 3,982    3,790      3,471      3,469      3,454
CAA                                    636       828       823      1,123      2,005
Government                              29         -          -         -          -
TiSAID                               _             -          -         -         67
Total long/medium borrowings       5,590    Z,772      7,316      7,797    10,367
General reserves                       206       257        377       414        461
Internal guarantee funds               214       279        348       605        687
Other                                    7         9         11        12         12
Sub-total general reserves a/        427       v                  1,031      1,160
Share capital (paid in)                800       900     1,000      1,000      1,000
Reserves and accumulated earnings       8        10         il4       119        12
Sub-total share capital                        0:im               1.119      d i
Total equilty                               _____                 Oi  9      2 283
TOTAL                              76176 40            0 l"      l-0       lJ_'7
Operations on Government Account
Disbursed                               _       179       508        898        908
TJndisbursed                          100        6         11         30         19
Total                               100      25                    928        927
_         -             _                  -
/  These provisions are considered as part of equity.
DFCD
March 21, 1975



ANNEX 17
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Income Statements (Year ending September 30)
(CFAF million)
1970     1971      1972      1973     1974
REVENUMES
Loan interest and cammissions                440      551       647       684      871
Income on investments                          4         7        6        17       19
Interest on deposits                          10        5         8        10   )   89
Other                                         21                 76        6
Total revenue                 Z7597               737       775      979
EXPENSES
Personnel                                     95      116       132       145      182
Administrative                                69       86       130       136      175
Depreciation                                  22       15        20        19       30
Interest on borrowings                       180      234       287       326      432
Provisions a/                                 73      115       159       141      15
Total expenses                73        3n        ?         7        969
Operating income                              36       31         9         8       10
Extraordinary income (net)                    (9)       -         1         3        (5)
Tax                                           11       11         1         1        1
Net income a/                                 16       20         7         4        4
= -                         =   =
a/ Of these provisions, the following
amounts were allocated to general
reserves to minimize taxable income0        49       51       120        37       47
Consequently, net income can be
restated as follows:                        65       71       127        41       51
I)FCD
March 21, 1975



4~~~~~~~ S
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios
Years ending September 30                      Actual                            Projected
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974      1975   1976   1977 -1978   1979
Income Statement Elements as
% of Average Total Assets
Gross Income                         7.2   7.5   7.8   7.4   8.0        7.8    7.6    7.3    7.6    8.2
Less:  Financial Expenses            2.7   2.9   3.0   3.1   3.5        3.7    3.9    4.1    4.2    4.5
Administrative Expenses       2.8   2.7   3.0   2.9   3.2       2.8    2.7    2.5    3.1    3.3
Gross profit                         107   1.9  1,8   1.4   1.3         1.3    1.0    0.7    0.3    0.4
Less:  Provisions for losses a/      0,4   0.8   0.4  1l0   0.8        0.8    005    0.3    0.2    0.)
Tax & extraordinary items     0.3   0.1    *,          oo             *  o0
NTet profit b/                      10   1.0   1.4   0.4   0.5        0.5    0.5    0.4    0.1    0.3
Income from Loans & Cost of Debt
Tield on term loans as % of average
term loans                          6.9   7,1   7.2   7.0   7.4        7.5    7.6    7.7    7.8    8.0
Cost of debt as % of average debt    3.5   3.7   3.9   4.0   4.5        4.6    4.7    4.8    4.9    5.1
Net profit and dividends
Net profit b/ as % of year-end
share capital                       8.1   7.9  12,7  4h1   5,1         6.4    6.5    5.7    3.0    6.2
Net profit b/ as % of average
equity c/                           5.2   5.0   7.5   2,1   2.3        3.4    3.4    2.8    1.5    3.0
Dividends as % of year-end
share capital                         -      -     -     -     -        -       -      -      -       -
Payout ratio                            -     -     -     -     -         -      -      -       -      -
Debt/equity c/ ratio
Long- and medium-term debt/equity   4h3   4h3   4h0   3,6   4.5         4.9    5.3    6.3    7.0    7.3
All debt/equity                      4h3   4.5  4h3   3.9   4.9         5.1    5.5    6.5    7.2    7.5
Debt coverage
Interest coverage                     1.5   1.4   1.5   1,2   1.1      11    1.1   lol    1.3    14h
Interest and principal coverage         -     -     -     -   1.1       1.1    1,1   10    1.0   11
a/ Excludes allocations to general reserves,
b/ Includes allocations to general reserves,
c/ Includes general reserves as equity.
DFCD
March 21, 1975



ANNEX 1 9
Page 1 Of 2
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Projected Loan Approvals (Year ending September 30)
(CFAF million)
1975     1976     1977      1978     1979
Short-term
Household eqiipment                     800      900    1,000    1,100    1,200
Auto                                    500      600       65o      700       750
1,300    1,500    1,65      1,800    1,950
Medium-term
Housing - individuals                1,400    1,550    1,700    1,850    2,000
Housing - companies                  1,500    1,600    1,700    1,800    2,000
Commerce, artisans and industry      1,250    1,400    1.500    1,500    1 600
4,150    4,550    4,900 5,600
Long-term
Housing - individuals                   750      800      850       900      950
Commerce, artisans and industry        250       300      300       300      350
Communities                            200       250      250       300      300
Hotels                                    -      770       770      770         -
SSE project                               -      250      400       475      525
1T00    2,370    2s570       74
TOTAL                       6,650    8,420    9,120    9,695    9,675
DFCD
March 21, 1975



ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Assumptions for Financial Projections
I.   Forecast of Operations
A. Approvals: See Annex 19, page 1.
B. Disbursements and Maturities:
% Disbursed                 Term
a/          -        Total      of which:
YA    YA+1   YA+2       years      grace
Short term
Household equipment and
auto                         90     10      -        1-1/2
Medium term
Housing - individuals         15    45    4 0
Housing - companies           30      60    10        4             -
Commerce, artisans and
industry                     30      70    -         5            1/2
Long term
Housing - individuals         25      50    25       10            6
Commerce, artisans and
industry                     40     50    10        10            6
Communities                   30     50    20'       10            5
Hotels                        25      40    35       15            4
II.  Revenues and Expenses
A.  Interest rates, cost, spread and sources; see Annex 13.
B.  Administrative expense grow 12% per annum.
C.  After new headquarters building is completed in 1978, rental
income will eventually reach CFAF 00 million per year.
D.  Provisions projected at maximum tax-free allowable, approximately
equivalent to 2% of annual disbursements or 1% of year-end loans
outstanding; provisions for identified bad debts maintained at
55% of loans classed as doubtful or in litigation and general
reserves at approximately 7.5% of loans outstanding.
a] YA: Year of approval.
DFCD
June 4, 1975



PUNEX 20
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Projected Income Statements (Year ending September 30)
(CFAF million)
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
(Actual)
REVENUES
Loan interest and cammissions   871   1,070   1,255   1,4h0   1,630   1,870
Income on investments             19      20       20      20      20      20
Rents                              -       -        -       -     125     200
Other                            -L      100     100      100     100     100
Total revenue             979   1,190   1, 375   1, 560   1,5875   2,190
EXPENSES
Personnel                        182     210     255      290     310     355
Admini strative                  175     195      215     235     255      275
Depreciation                      30      20       20      20     185     240
Interest on borrowings           432     560      700     875   1,035   1,190
Provisions  /                    150     200     180      135      85     125
Total expenses            969   1,185   1,370   1,55.%  1,870   2,185
Operating income                  10       5        5       5       5       5
Net income a/                      4       5       5        5       5       5
a In order to be consistent with
CCI's past and current financial
reporting (Annex IV, Table 6),
these provisions include
allocations to general reserves
as follows:                    h7      78      92       80      40      88
(See "'Assumptions for Financial
Projections"t, Annex IV,
Exhibit A, assumption II.D).
Consequently, net inocame can
be restated as follows:         51      83      97       85      h5      93
DFCD
March 21, 1975



ANNEX 21
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Projected Balance Sheets (as at September 30)
(CFAF million)
1974.    1975      1976     1977      1978     1979
(Actual)
ASSETS
Cash and bank deposits           163       883      444       435      258       172
Other                             99                               60   6         65
262      9-2      499       79        323      237
Short-term loans               1,494    1,132    1,141    1,225    1,308    1,391
Medium-term loans              5,730    7,355    8,625    9,361    9,748    9,999
Long-term loans                5,6o3    6,432    7,391    8,581   10.522   12,084
Subtotal                    12,27  14,919  17,15719,16721,578   2,4I74
Doubtful and in litigation       741       983    1,142    1,241    1,322    1,390
Less:  Provisions               (61)      (545     (633)    (688)    (732       (770)
Net portfolio               13,107   15,357   17,666   19,720   22,167   24,094
Investments                       75        70       70        70       70        70
Fixed assets (net)               234       300    1,h25    295    3.300    3,100
TOTAL                       13,680   16,655   19,660   23,210   25,860   27,501
IIABILITIES
BCEAO                            392       400      400       400      400       400
CAA                              324       325      325       325      325       325
Deposits                         134       200      225       250      250       275
Other                            180       110      120       130      140       150
Total current                1,031    1,035    1,070    1,105    1,11T    1,150
BCEAO                          4,833    6,277    7,394    8,434    9,102    9,698
CCCE                           3,454    3,508    3,371    3,031    2,703    2,427
CAA                            2,005    2,967    3,762    4,207    4,822    5,352
TISAID                            67       237      237       237      237       237
IBRD - Hotels                      -         -      215       730    1,660    2,140
IBRD-SSE Project                   -         -      125       4S0      890    1,365
Building finance                   -         -      225    1,725    1,875    1,575
Unidentified                       -         -        -         -        -         -
Total long/medium borrowingslO,367   12,989   15,32    TB7,T1   21,89   2794
General reserves a             1,160    1,238    1,330    1,410    1,450    1,538
Share capital                  1,000    1,300    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900
Reserves and accumulated
earnings                       j 12         0      135      140       145      150
Total equity                 2,283    2668    3,365    3,450    3,495    3,588
TOTAL         13,680   16,655   19,660   23,2L0   25,860   27,501
a/  These reserves are considered as part of equity,
DFCD
July 15, 1975



ANNEX 22
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Pro.lected Sources and Uses of Funds (Year endina September 30)
(CFAF million)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
SOTRCES
Borroiwings
BCEAO:
Short-term                           1,267   1,333   1,400   1,467   1,533
Medium-term                             70   3 810   4,020   4 220   4 420
-                     _,3 5,420    jT  5
CAA:
Medium-term                            500     500      355     500     500
Long-term                            1.100   1 100   1.035   1.100   1 10O
Subtotal                           1,600   16      1,390   1,600   1,60
CCCE:  Long-term                        520     405      240     290     380
IJSAID:  Long-term                      170       -        -       -       -
IBRD: SSE Project, Long-term              -     125      325     440     500
IBRD: Hotels, Long-term                   -     215      515     930     480
Building finance                          -     225   1,500      375       -
TJnidentified                             -       -        -       -       -
Total borrowings                   7,127   7,713   9,390   9,322   ,9913
Loan collections
Short-term                           1,720   1,470   1,550   1,700   1,850
Meditm-term                          2,404   3,129   3,564   4,334   4,685
Long-term                              701     824      887     774     846
Total                              4,825   52    600    6, TOT   7,38
Share capital subscription              300     600        -       -        -
Cash fram operations
Net income                               5       5        5       5       5
Depreciation                            20      20       20     185     240
Provisions (net of losses)              78      92       80      40      88
Total                                103     117     105      230    533
Other accounts (net)                     55      25       30       5      35
TOTAL SOIRCES                     12,410  13,878  15,526  16,365  16,662
USES
Debt repayments
BCEAO                                 3,385   4,026   4,380   5,019   5,357
CAA                                     638     805      945     985   1,070
CCCE                                    466     542      580     618     656
Building finance                          -       -        -     225     300
UJnidentified                                     -        -       -       -
Total                              4,489   5,373   5,905   6,847f     3
Loan disbursements
Short-term                            1,350   1,480   1,635   1,785   1,935
Medium-term                           4,165   4,510   4,375   4,755   4,950
Long-term                             1.620   1.830   2,100   2,760   2,460
Total                              7,135   7,89-20   F,l    9,300   9,345
FIXED ASSET EXPENDITURE                 66   1,145   1,520      395      20
TOTAL TJSES                         11,690  14,338  15,535  16, 542  16,748
CASH SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                 720    (460)      (9)   (177)    (86)
DFCD
July 15, 1975



ANNEX 23
Page 1
The Branches Studied by OPEI
A.   Woodworking
In terms of number of projects promoted, OPEI's assistance to
furniture/carpentry workshops is second behind the bakeries sector. To date,
fourteen enterprises have been established with OPEI's assistance, representing
a total investment of CFAF 63 million ($315,000).
Structure of Production.  According to OPEI's census of enterprises
in the metropolitan area of Abidjan, there are 304 artisanal units which
employ some 1400 persons, and ten "industrial" units of various sizes employing
about 1000 persons. There is no clear-cut difference in the organization of
production of the two types of units, artisanal and "industrial" as identified
by OPEI, but a certain specialization exists in the type of demand and quality
of products they manufacture. The absence of sizeable economies of scale in
the branch offers good prospects to the establishment of a number of small-
scale enterprises. These "model" enterprises would have the minimum equip-
ment necessary to mechanize all major operations of furniture and carpentry
production.
Market. OPEI estimates that in 1973 sales of furniture and carpentry
products manufactured by SSEs in Abidjan totalled CFAF 5.2 billion. Demand
is forecast to grow by 12% annually. The proposed SSE's could capture half
of this increase in demand, i.e., a sales potential of CFAF 310 million per
year.
Typical Unit. The proposed profile for the "model unit" is based
on OPEI's proposal and further discussions in Abidjan with OPEI and some
entrepreneurs. This profile will be reviewed by OPEI when it has recruited
an experienced woodworking technician. For a typical unit, total investment
would amount to CFAF 18.7 million ($93,500) and 20 jobs would be created.
Annual sales would total CFAF 30 million at full capacity, generating a
return on equity of 62% for an average equity of 30% of investment cost. The
estimated internal financial rate of return is about 28% over 6 years.
Investment Program. Based on the potential market which SSE's
could supply over the next three years, the investment program can be esti-
mated at CFAF 680 million for about 40 projects. Allowing for some slippage
in project implementation a total amount of CFAF 450 million has been retained
for about 24 projects likely to be established during the next 3 years.
Vocational Training and Technical Assistance. Facilities for voca-
tional training in the woodworking sector exist in Ivory Coast and are generally
satisfactory. About 100 technicians annually graduate from specialized schools.
More critical will be OPEI's capacity to assist investors design their project
and extend adequate follow-up. Extensive in-the-field assistance by OPEI



ANNEX 23
Page 2
will be needed in the early stages to help promoters solve their technical
and organizational problems. Two experienced foreign technicians as fore-
cast by OPEI, with their Ivorian counterparts, should be sufficient to meet
the assistance requirements of this specific promotion program.
B.   Bakeries.
OPEI has implemented 27 projects in the branch over the last five
years for a total investment cost of CFAF 320 million. The success of this
operation is mostly due to OPEI's action, but is also partly the consequence
of Government regulations, aiming at Ivorianizing a branch that offers attractive
returns for investors.
Market. According to a study commissioned by OPEI from a local
consulting company, consumption of bread in the Ivory Coast increased by
5% annually during the past five years, and is expected to grow at the same
rate in the coming years. There were 110 "modern" bakeries in the Ivory
Coast in 1973, twenty-eight of which belonged to Ivorians; these bakeries
supplied 81% of the total production of bread (79,000 tons) with annual sales
volume totalling CFAF 6.2 billion and employed 4,300 persons. OPEI estimates
that the 27 units it promoted (for a total investment of CFAF 320 million)
created 360 jobs; six of these units were located in Abidjan.
The Model Unit. OPEl proposes to keep the same model unit it used
in the recent years. These units, designed to supply a market of about
15,000 persons in urban areas, have a standard capacity of 340 tons of bread
per year (i.e., 2,500 loaves of bread per day, representing annual sales of
CFAF 34.3 million), and employ an average of 12 persons each for a total
investment cost now estimated at CFAF 20 million. These units appear will
suited for urban areas, but OPEI should study the possibility of implemienting
bakeries with a lower production capacity for potential markets below 15,000
people. For OPEI's current model units, the financial internal rate of
return on total investment is about 25% over 8 years.
Investment Requirements. The new bakeries established in the last
five years represent an additional capacity of 26,000 tons of bread, of which
OPEI projects account for 9,200 tons while the demand for bread increased
by 18,000 tons only. The expected increase of demand (13,000 tons) over
the next three years could therefore be partially covered by a better utili-
zation of the existing capacity. Assuming on a conservative basis that 50%
of this increase would be met by new bakeries, OPEI could assist in the
creation of 20 new "model" projects over the next three years, each one having
an individual capacity of 340 tons of bread per year. Total investment at
current prices would thus reach CFAF 400 million during this period.
Training and Technical Assistance. The school for bakers estab-
lished in Yamoussoukro provides suitable vocational training for a dozen
bakers per year; OPEI's technical assistance in this branch is adequate and
offers a good support for the program.



ANNEX 23
Page 3
Government Regulations. A decree enacted in 1971 stipulates that
all new investments or expansions in the bakeries sector have to be authorized
by the Government on the basis of a study done by OPEI and a 1972 Government
regulation specifies that only Ivorian-owned projects can be authorized. The
selling price of bread is fixed by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the
flour price and the estimated costs of production plus a margin per ton of bread
produced, which has remained unchanged since 1969. The returns to investors
however do not appear exaggerated, and therefore the policy does not seem to
have resulted in substantial subsidization of the branch.
C.   Garages
In 1974 the Government decided to relocate the informal repair work-
shops which had been spreading haphazardly in Abidjan. OPEI's involvement in
the sector, negligible so far, will rapidly expand and OPEI's sector study
contains proposals for implementation of model garage units and a reorganiza-
tion of the branch.
Structure of Production. According to OPEI's census on the Abidjan
area, 301 artisanal units employed 2,637 persons and had a sales volume of
CFAF 719 million in 1973; forty-five large modern garages all owned and
managed by expatriates had annual sales totalling CFAF 3,588 million in 1973
and employed 2,236 persons.
The Market.  In spite of the high price they charge for their
services and the increasing demand for quality in automobile repairs, the
large units have increasing difficulties to cover their overhead costs and
to operate profitably; they are thus not expected to develop fast.  Given the
projected increase in demand (about 8% per year) there is therefore room for
promotion of SSEs, which, provided they are well equipped and offer good
service, could not only capture the increase in the demand but also entice
away some of the clients of larger garages.
Model Units. Three model units have been proposed by OPEI which
represent three consecutive stages in the development of a SSE. The smallest
>"model" unit would have a total investment cost of CFAF 6.8 million. The
estimated financial internal rate of return is 33% on total investment.
Investment Level.  OPEI's estimate that 23 units will be estab-
lished in Abidjan over the next three years looks reasonable. Another
twelve new units could be implemented in the provinces according to preli-
minary estimates. out of the 35 subprojects under the project, nine would be
slightly larger than the "model" described above and cost CFAF 11 million
each. Conservatively estimated investment over the next three years would
thus amount to about CFAF 275 million.
Vocational Training and Technical Assistance. The three schools
for mechanics currently in operation offer adequate training for some 60
students every year. Regarding technical assistance for project implementa-
tion and supervision, OPEI considers that five foreign advisors (technicians)



ANNEX 23
Page 4
are necessary; given the possibility of rapidly training Ivorian counterparts
such estimate appears high and three expatriate experts with good technical
experience appear sufficient.  OPEI has also suggested the creation of a
pilot garage for technical and management training purposes. This well-
equipped pilot-garage would also be used by individual entrepreneurs for
cophisticated operations. The mission had serious reservations about this
project (that would be financed by UNIDO) since it does not seem to offer any
special advantages, but has a high investment cost ($400,000) and requires
much technical expatriate assistance (4 persons); the proposal is being
reconsidered.
D.   Clothing
Structure of Production. According to OPEI's census of existing
artisanal and industrial units in the Abidjan area, there are twelve
"industrial" enterprises, 1,806 artisanal enterprises and 1,235 independent
artisanal workers who work for artisanal units. The enterprises of inter-
mediate size are not numerous and usually have specialized in a certain
type of products. Small enterprises have to compete with artisans for "made
to order" clothes and with efficient industrial producers for "ready made"
clothes. Large integrated clothing industries are presently being imple-
mented; although these large enterprises are export oriented, a sizeable
part of their production will be sold on the domestic market and will this
bring additional competition in the branch.
The "Model" Unit.  OPEI's "model" unit represents CFAF 46 million
investment, employs 50 people and will reach an annual sales volume of CFAF
99 million. This clearly shows that projected enterprises will have an
industrial scale. There is no continuous development process from an
artisanal to an industrial size.
Prospects for SSE's. Some small-scale enterprises have been very successful
in satisfying specialized types of demand such as fancy clothes for export
markets and are now seeking financing for expansion. Such projects entirely
depend on the capacity of each promoter to create and market original
products and are rather exceptional. While OPEI and CCI may well assist
such projects on a case-by-case basis, repeat operations in this sector do
not seem feasible.
DFCD
April 1, 1975



ANNEX 24
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Estimated Necessary Spread
An 1.5% spread per year for administrative expenses is assumed.
The additional spread needed to cover the expected value of defaults -- the
risk premium -- is calculated as follows: Let "r" equal required risk
premium, then the present value of income from required "r" must equal the
defaults expected as a percent of the original loan amount. Assume the
original loan is CFAF 1, maturing in 7.5 years with 2.5 years grace period.
Income from required spread in any year is "r" times the average loan out-
standing, the present value of which is calculated, using a discount rate
equal to the cost of funds, as follows:
Income from    Discount Factor      Present Value
Year              Required Spread      at 8.5%            of Income
1                         1.Or            .922                 .922r
2                         1.Or            .849                 .849r
3                          .9r            .783                 .705r
4                          .7r            .722                 .505r
5                          .5r            .665                 .333r
6                          .3r            .617                 .184r
7                          .lr            .565                 .057r
Total P.V. = 3.555r
Thus the present value of the income earned in the required spread
is 3.555r.
This amount must equal the expected defaults as a percentage of
the original loan, thus:
if defaults - 10%,
3.555r - 0.1 and r = 2.8%; and
if defaults = 5%,
3.555r = 0.05 and r = 1.4%.
With an 8.5% cost of funds and 1.5% administrative costs, the interest
rate would have to be:
12.8%          with an assumed default rate of 10%
11.4%          with an assumed default rate of 5%.
DFCD
-June 4, 1975 -



ANNEX 25
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$000)
IBRD Fiscal Years
Oumulative
1976
1st quarter
2nd quarter                 170
3rd quarter                 230
4th quarter                 280                             680
1977
1st quarter                 330
2nd quarter                 45o
3rd quarter                 500
4th quarter                 560                           2,520
1978
1st quarter                 560
2nd quarter                 56o
3rd quarter                 560
4th quarter                 600                           4,8oo
1979
1st quarter                 400
2nd quarter                 230
3rd quarter                 110
4th quarter                  60                           5,600
DFCD
July 10, 1975



