CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1162 IVC
Guarantee Agreement
(Small-Scale Enterprise Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED SEPTEMBER 5, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1162 IVC
Guarantee Agreement
(Small-Scale Enterprise Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED SEPTEMBER 5, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 5, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF THE
IVORY COAST (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Cr6dit de la C6te d'Ivoire (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed
to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to five million
six hundred thousand dollars ($5,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
3 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally


﻿4
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take, or cause or
permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any agency of


﻿5
any such political subdivisions or any institution which may be established to
perform the functions of a central bank exclusively for the Guarantor to take,
any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance by the Borrower
of its obligations contained in the Loan Agreement and will take or cause to- be
taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to
perform such obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall make appropriate arrangements, to provide
funds for guarantee purposes to the Fonds de Garantie des Credits aux Entreprises
Ivoiriennes, an etablissement public established under Law No. 68.346 dated
July 29, 1968, or any successor thereto, for carrying out its guarantee operations
and shall cause said Fonds de Garantie to charge a fee on outstanding amounts
of loans guaranteed by said Fonds de Garantie.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall cause OPEL:
(a)   to conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound firancial
and economic standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Guarantor's Law No. 68.342 of July 29, 1968 and
Decree No. 68.607 of October 26, 1968;
(b)   to provide, as and when needed, technical assistance to Investment
Enterprises;
(c)   to cooperate with the Borrower in the carrying out of Section
3.02(a)(i) and Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement; and
(d)   to develop critena, acceptable to the Bank, to select branches of
activity suitable for Branch Investment Projects, and to identify said branches for
the approval of the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall appoint the Directeur General of the
Borrower to OPEI's Executive Committee.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿6
For the Guarantor:
Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
B. P. 1766
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:                         Telex address:
MINIFIN                                MINIFIN 747
Abidjan                                Abidjan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex address:
INTBAFRAD                              440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA), or
64145 (WUI)
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day anid year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
By /s / Henri Konan B6di6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


