Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15297-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 10, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(As of September 1996)
Currencv Unit   =  Philippines Peso (P)
P 1.00          =  US$0.038
US$1.00         =  P 26.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles
I square kilometer (kin2)   =  0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)                 =  10.76 square feet
I cubic meter (m3)          =  35.31 cubic feet
I million cubic meters (mcm)   =  810.7 acre feet
I millimeter (mm)           =  0.039 inches
I kilogram (km)             =  2.2 pounds
I cavan                     =  50 kilogram
20 cavans                   =  I metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DA                 =    Department of Agriculture
DENR               =    Department of Environment and Natural Re:sources
DILG               =    Department of Interior and Local Governmcrnt
DOH                =    Department of Health
DPWH               =    Department of Public Works and Highways
FIO                =    Farmer Irrigators' Organizer
IA                 =    Irrigators' Association
IDD                =    Institutional Development Department
IOSP               =    Irrigation Operations Support Project
ISF                =    Irrigation Service Fee
ISIP               =    Irrigation Service Improvement Plan
LGU                =    Local Government Unit
M&E                =    Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                =    Management Information System
NEDA               =    National Economic and Development Authc rity
NIA                =    National Irrigation Administration
NIS                =    National Irrigation System
NPC                =    National Power Corporation
NWIN               =    National Water Information Network
NWRB               =    National Water Resources Board
O&M                =    Operation and Maintenance
RIO                =    Regional Irrigation Office
SMD                =    Systems Management Department
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Republic of the Philippines
Implementing Agencies:    DENR, NWRB, NIA and DOH
Beneficiaries:           DENR, NWRB, NIA and DOH
Poverty Category:        Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                  US$58.0 million
Terms:                   20 years, including a five-year grace period, at standard
LIBOR-based interest rate for US dollar single currency
loans
Commitment Fee:          0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 d.ays
after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:         Budgetary grants by the Borrower to the implementing
agencies
Financing Plan:          See Para. 3.2 and Annex 11, Table 1
Net Present Value:       US$54.7 million (calculated on 56% of project costs, for
which benefits can be firmly estimated at this stage) at a
discount rate of 10%. Economic rate of return is about
27%.
Map:                     IBRD 27814
Project Identification No.:  4613



I



PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN & PROJECT SUMMARY....
1. WATER  RESOURCES SECTOR...........................................................
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND  DESCRIPTION ......................................................... 7
Project Formulation  and Design ..........................................................................                                                             7
County Assistance Strategy .........................................................................8
Rationale for Bank Involvement ..........................................................................8
Project Objectives and  Components ..........................................................................8
Detailed Project Features ..........................................................................9
Improved  Water Resources Management ..........................................................................9
Improved  WatershedManagement ..........................................................................                                                           10
Systems Improvement and Repair ..........................................................................                                                         11
Institutional Strengthening  of NL9  and Ls ...........                            ..............................................................                  13
Environmental Improvement .........................................................................                                                                16
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .........................................................                                                                                    17
Project Costs .........................................................................                                                                              17
Project Financing .........................................................................                                                                         17
Procurement .........................................................................                                                                                18
Disbursement .........................................................................                                                                              21
Accounts and Audit ...... ;22
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .........................................................                                                                                         23
Status of Project Preparation .........................................................................                                                             23
Organization and Management .........................................................................                                                               23
Implementation Schedule .........................................................................                                                                   27
Monitoring  and Evaluation  (M&E) and Reporting Requirements ................................................................ 27
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, PRICES, AND MARKET PROSPECTS ............. 28
Agricultural Production ..........................................................................                                                                  28
Prices and Markets .........................................................................                                                                        30
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions in November/December 1995 and
February/March 1996, respectively, by a Task Team consisting of Messrs. Syed Husain (Task Manager), Robert Crooks
(Watershed Management Specialist), Ronald Ng (Operations Technology Development Specialist), Jagdish Srivastava
(Consultant Irrigation Engineer) and Vineet Raswant (Consultant Finance and Institutions Specialist), and Mines. Mei
Xie (Water Resource Management Specialist) and Shobha Shetty (Economist). Messrs. Herve Plusquellec and Ashok
Subramanian (AGRPW) were the peer reviewers. Document clearance was provided by Messrs. Javad Khalilzadeh-
Shirazi (Director, EAI) and Jeffrey Gutman (Chief, EA1AE). Assistance in preparing the documents was given by
Mmes. Brenda Phillips and Saraswathi Sundaram.



6. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .......................................... 31
Project Benefits ......................................................                        31
Financial Analysis .......................................................                     32
Economic Analysis ......................................................                       34
Environmental Impact ......................................................                    35
Risks .......................................................                                  36
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................................... 37
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1        Water Resources Management Component
Annex 2        The Irrigation Sub-Sector
Annex 3        Draft TOR for the Formulation of a Watershed Management Strategy and Program
Annex 4        Criteria for Selection of Systems for Improvement
Annex 5        Irrigation Systems Improvement Plan (Proforma)
Annex 6        Detailed Activities Under System Improvement
Annex 7        NIA's Accounting System and Financial Performance
Annex 8        IA Development Program
Annex 9        Draft TOR for NIA's Environment Unit
Annex 10       Project Cost Tables
Annex 11       Financing Plan, Loan Allocation and Disbursements
Annex 12       Annual Project Funding by Government and World Bank
Annex 13       Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 14       Supervision Plan--Bank Supervision Mission Schedule
Annex 15       Water Availability for NIS and Possible Increase in Irrigation
Annex 16       Rice and Fertilizer Price Structure
Annex 17       Crop and Farm Budgets
Annex 18       Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
Annex 19       Economic Analysis
Annex 20       Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 3.1      Project Cost Summary
Table 3.2      Procurement
Table 5.1      Crop Area, Yields, Paddy Production and Cropping Intensities
FIGURES
Figure 1       Organization Chart for Project Implementation
Figure 2       Project Implementation Schedule
MAP                    IBRD 27814



PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. WATER RESOURCES SECTOR
1.1   The water resources sector includes sub-sectoral activities in irrigation, drainage, food
control, municipal and industrial water supply, hydropower, salinity control, fishery, protection of
aquatic life, and navigation (details are at Annex 1). Irrigation is the biggest water user in the
Philippines, accounting for over 80% of the total water demand in the country; industries and
domestic uses account for 10% and 5%, respectively. Although water use for hydropower
generation is non-consumptive, the pattern of water releases has to meet the power demands.
About 10% of river flows are considered to be a minimum in the Philippines to maintain ins-cream
aquatic life, navigation, salinity control, and fishing. There are over 20 agencies and 10
government departments dealing with water resources activities in the country. The legal
framework for the water resources sector management is provided by the Water Code of 1976.
The responsibility for administering and enforcing the Water Code lies with the National "Water
Resources Board (NWRB), which is vested by the Code with broad powers for coordinating,
controlling, supervising, and regulating the development, utilization and protection of water
resources in the country. The next most important institution in the water resources sector is the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), which is responsible for watershed
management, monitoring of water quality, and ground water data collection. The major water
services providers and users are the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) for irrigaticon and
drainage; the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA), Water Districts, and Manila Water
Supply and Sewerage System (MWSS) for municipal and industrial water supply; and the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) for flood control, small water impounding
projects, and rural water supply. The NWRB, although a regulatory body, is attached to the
DPWH, which is itself a major water services provider.
1.2   Water Resource Management Issues. The Philippines is facing an increasing water
resources management challenge, recently termed a 'crisis" in a number of official documen;s and
public statements by the Government, culminating in the 1995 'Water Crisis Act" (Republic Act
No. 8041), and the draft 'Irrigation Crisis Act" being considered by the Congress. The problem is
not the shortage of water per se: the current demand for water is less than one-third of the
renewable water available nationally. The problem arises from supply-demand mismatches caused
by inadequate water infrastructure to regulate flood flows and store water in the rainy season,
when water is abundant, for consumption in the dry season. The problem is compounded by
weaknesses in the management of the system and inefficiency in the use of water. The major
problems in the water resources sector are as follows: (a) the problems of the irrigation sub-
sector (further discussion is in paras. 1.8 - 1.11), which is the predominant water user, include
deficient water management due to technical and institutional deficiencies, flooding in t.he wet
season, and inadequate water availability in the dry season; as a result, the irrigated cropping



- 2 -
intensity in national irrigation systems is only 140% (even in reservoir systems, it is considerably
less than 200%); (b) for the water supply sub-sector, the main problems are: insufficient capacity
of the system to satisfy demand (about 76% of the country's population has access to public
water supply systems; for Metro Manila, the current supply is 2,500 million liters/day, corripared
to the demand of 3,400 I/day); competition from other sub-sectors that require increasing
quantities of water; declining water supplies due to the degradation of watersheds; and an
outdated and inefficient delivery infrastructure, which causes water losses as large as 60%/o and
low pressure in the water pipes. The infrastructure for sewerage lags far behind that of water
supply: only 7% of Metro Manila's population and less than 2% of other areas is served by
sewerage facilities; (c) despite relatively heavy investment in the past on flood control, number of
flash floods and flood peaks have increased, leading to intermittent losses of human lif-e and
property; (d) an alarming deterioration in water quality in streams and aquifers has occurred,
particularly near urban centers, due to untreated waste discharge. According to DENR, about
10% of all the rivers in the country, and all waterways and some aquifers in Metro Manila are
severely polluted. This has resulted inter alia in increased morbidity and a higher incidence of
water-borne diseases, and higher costs of water purification; (e) the illegal and/or uncontrolled
tapping of water has resulted in ground water depletion and saline intrusion in some areas,
e.g. Metro Manila, Cebu, and Bulacan. Although permits from NWRB are required for ground
water abstractions, in almost 65% of cases, abstractions take place without permits; only 6% of
the wells of permit holders have been monitored for compliance with the permits; and withdrawals
are estimated to be 20-60% over the permitted levels; and (f) conflicts in water demand are
already significant during critical periods of the dry season in Region III, where the Angat
reservoir provides for the industrial and municipal water requirements of Metro Manila and
irrigation of about 31,500 ha. Since water allocation to Metro Manila has been increasingly larger
than the originally agreed share, irrigation in the Angat-Maasim system has always fallen snort of
the service area of 31,500 ha. Other things being equal, such conflicts in water demand are
projected to occur in several other Regions in the next century.
1.3   Some of the above problems have to be resolved through larger public investment for
developing new water infrastructure, improved efficiency of delivery and water use, higher cost
recovery, economic pricing of water, greater participation by beneficiaries in the planning and
implementation of projects, and increased participation by the private sector in service delivery.
The Government has taken several initiatives in this regard, including measures to start the
process of privatization of Water Districts and MWSS. However, a major constraint in the water
resources sector is institutional: absence of an overall planning framework to guide water
resources development, protection and efficient use; fragmented water management
responsibilities; weak law enforcement; and deficient water resources data. While the Water Code
is generally considered adequate, the major problem lies in its implementation and monitoring.
The NWRB has limited funds and staff and is unable to effectively enforce the provisions of the
Water Code or to carry out its other mandates for planning and coordination. The last assessment
of water and land resources in the Philippines was conducted almost 20 years ago. There is no
national water resources plan or updated basin plans to integrate water and land use activities,
water quantity and quality management, and conjunctive use of surface and ground water. There
are also no disaster (drought and flood) management plans. Agencies in each sub-sector have
largely independent strategies and programs for resource development and operations. As a result,
negative externalities from excessive water withdrawals and waste water discharges have



- 3 -
extended across sub-sectors and between upstream and downstream areas of river basins The
Government recognizes the institutional problem. A significant recent initiative on its part was the
December 1994 National Water Summit, opened by the President of the Philippines. The Summit
discussed various water issues and agreed on the need for.further integration and coordination of
all water-related efforts towards a more focused approach to water resources managemetit and
for strengthening and phased upgrading of the NWRB to become an effective national water
resources management agency. The 1995 'Water Crisis Act" created a Joint Executive-
Legislative Water Crisis Commission for implementation of the Act and for recommending an
action plan to the President and Congress. The final report of the Commission, including the
action plan, is expected to be submitted to the President before the end of 1996.
1.4   To assist the Government in formulating an action plan, a study of the NWRB and the
overall water resource management framework was undertaken during the preparation of the
proposed project. The study recommended a technical action plan and an institutional and policy
action plan. Most of the recommendations of the technical action plan (which included policy and
strategy formulation, data programs, resource assessment and planning, operations and real-time
management, and research and strategic studies) have been incorporated in the project, and the
rest would be implemented under other externally-funded projects or by the NWRB itself The
main recommendations of the institutional and policy action plan relate to creation of Regional
offices of the NWRB, strengthening of the NWRB's law enforcement capacity, changes in the
NWRB's Board composition and its powers, operationalization of a Special Account in the
General Fund to the credit of NWRB, revision of water rates and charges, withdrawal of
exemption of government agencies from payment of fees and charges levied under the Water
Code, modification of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Water Code, attachment of
the NWRB to the Office of the President for the time being, improvement of incentives for the
NWRB staff through exemption from the Salary Standardization Law, a substantial increase in the
level of fines for offenses against the Water Code, and renaming of the NVRB the Philippines
Water Resources Authority. The above recommendations are being reviewed by the Government
and a dialogue on those would be continued under the project.
1.5   Watershed Management. The Philippines has a total land area of about 30 million hectares,
of which about 70% is officially considered watershed area. These watersheds comprise some 419
river basins, and the mandate to manage them lies with the DENR, with co-management by the
local government units (LGUs). Some of the watersheds, because of their economic importance,
have been designated as 'Watershed reservations" through Presidential Proclamations. To date,
119 watersheds covering about 1.36 million ha have been proclaimed. The proclaimed watershed
reservations were intended to be managed as protected areas, but are typically heavily encroached
and subjected to slash and burn and other forms of cultivation. As a consequence, about 90% of
the proclaimed watershed reservations are categorized as 'hydrologically critical" implying
degradation with risk to downstream infrastructure.
1.6   Of the country's total estimated population of about 68.6 million, roughly I1' to 20
percent live in the upland areas, with a significant number of people cultivating or occupying
portions of watersheds. Due to a rapidly increasing population and the growing demand for land,
farmers have moved to higher and steeper slopes in their search for new agricultural lands.
Watersheds have been cleared and planted with little or no attention to soil and water



- 4 -
conservation technologies. Deforestation, coupled with inappropriate land use practices, has led
to loss of biodiversity and disrupted the hydrological condition of major watersheds, which has
aggravated and hastened soil erosion, siltation of rivers and reservoirs, incidence and severity of
flooding, and decrease in dry season water supply. These, in turn, have caused considerable
reduction in the productivity of the forest, agricultural lands and fisheries, with a consequent high
incidence of poverty in rural areas, particularly uplands, and decreased returns from major
investments in water infrastructure. Studies prepared for the Philippine Master Plan for Forestry
Development estimated that soil erosion alone cost the country over half a billion dollars a year,
primarily through loss of productive land, damage to irrigation systems and coastal fisheries, and
reduced generation of hydro-electric power.
1.7   The Government has launched several programs and projects for the rehabilitation of
degraded watersheds and/or protection of those still in good condition. However, these have so
far been inadequate to address the alarming rate of watershed degradation due to lack of a clear
overall strategy, limited financial resources, fragmented implementation responsibility, shortage of
properly trained manpower, and increasing socio-economic pressure resulting from the rapid
increase of population in the uplands/forest lands where the vital watersheds are located. Further,
while there has been some progress in the country toward a broader concept of watershed
management that puts some priority on the interests of the local population, a great deal of
discussion and a clear, overall strategy is still needed to bring a wide range of stakeholders to a
higher level of understanding of, inter alia, the scope for multiple use of watersheds. Given the
extent of watershed degradation in the country and the serious consequences for vital economic
infrastructure as degradation continues, it is essential that a long-term strategy and investment
program be formulated and implemented, accompanied by policy and legal changes and
institutional strengthening of the DENR and other involved agencies.
1.8   Irrigation Subsector Management. There are several constraints on the irrigation sub-
sector performance (para. 1.9). Since irrigation is the biggest user of water in the country, an
improvement in irrigation efficiency would significantly reduce the pressure on water resources,
and thus help overall water resource management in the country, permitting additional supplies to
the water supply sub-sector; in turn, an improvement in water resource and watershed
management would benefit the irrigation sub-sector by minimizing illegal upstream diversions,
reduction in siltation of reservoirs and canals and the consequent reduction in O&M costs, more
reliable and predictable allocation of water within a river basin management framework, and
improved planning and design of irrigation systems due to availability of better data. Irrigation
development has been an important instrument of the Government for promoting agricultural
growth and food security, and alleviating rural poverty over the past two decades. Irrigation
systems now serve an area of about 1.5 million ha, about 48% of the irrigable area (although
development of the entire area may not necessarily be economically viable). About 95% of the
irrigated area is devoted to paddy and about 70% of the paddy production in the country is from
irrigated lands. For dry season cropping, irrigation is essential in all climatic zones in the country.
There are three main types of irrigation systems in the Philippines: (a) national irrigation systems
(LaS): there are 168 NIS, serving about 650,000 ha. NIA, a government-owned corporation
responsible for irrigation development, constructs (with Government grants), and operates and
maintains (from its own budget) the national systems. Farmers in NIS pay an Irrigation Service
Fee (ISF); (b) communal irrigation systems (CIS): there are about 6,200 CIS, serving about



- 5 -
730,000 ha. These are small systems, owned and operated by Irrigators' Associations (lAs). Since
the promulgation of the Local Government Code in January 1992, the overall responsibility for
CIS (except ongoing foreign-funded CIS) has been transferred from NIA to the local
governments; and (c) pump-lift irrigation systems (PIS): these serve about 200,000 ha, covering
from 20 to 100 ha per system, and are privately owned and mostly privately operated. Detalds on
the irrigation sub-sector are at Annex 2.
1.9   The major reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of irrigation systems in the
Philippines include: deficient water management due to institutional weaknesses of NIA and the
IAs; insufficient water control structures to ensure equitable and timely water deliveries to all
sections of the irrigation systems; neglect of flood protection and drainage in the design of NIS;
inadequate funding of operation and maintenance; and increased siltation of irrigation systems
caused by watershed degradation and severe erosion during typhoons.
1.10  Problems of NIA and Irrigators' Associations. The institutional problems of NIA and the
IAs are a major reason for the low overall water use efficiency in irrigation. Although NIA is an
autonomous corporate entity, it does not finance investment projects from its own resources or
loans. All investment programs are financed by the Government. However, NIA is responsible for
O&M of the NIS. The O&M is covered by NIA's operating budget, which is financed principally
from ISF collections, management fees charged to the Government for the design and
construction supervision of irrigation projects, and rentals of construction equipment. Any change
in ISF rates has to be approved by the Government, and management fees depend on the level of
the investment program, which has declined in recent years due to the Government's financial
constraints. Because of inadequate maintenance resulting from a shortage of funds, irrigation
infrastructure and the quality of irrigation services provided to farmers on NIS have deteriorated.
This, in turn, has adversely affected NIA's fee collection performance. ISF collection was only
62% of current billings in 1995, and met only 66% of the total O&M expenditures. NIA realizes
its serious financial situation and is implementing several measures to improve the situation. These
include: streamlining of its organization and staffing; an accelerated program to turn over NIS or
parts of NIS to the lAs, which would reduce NIA's operating costs; efforts to increase the
equipment rental income; and steps to increase ISF collection, which, under the Second Irrigation
Operations Support Project (IOSP II, Loan 3607-PH, approved in FY93), is targeted to be at
least 70% of the current billings by the end of the project in 1998, meeting about 95% of the total
O&M expenditures of NIS.
1.11  As regards the institutional development program for the lAs, NIA has been a pioneer
among developing countries. The program for the involvement of lAs in planning, construction,
and management of irrigation schemes started about 25 years ago on communal schemes and was
later adopted on national schemes. All communal schemes, accounting for about 50% of the total
irrigated area in the country, involve full participation of the IAs, from initial planning to eventual
management and ownership. However, the management turnover program on NIS has lost its
momentum, although the number of lAs formed, registered and granted contracts (for
maintenance of sections of NIS and ISF collection ) is impressive. It appears that at least 50% of
the IAs formed so far in NIS are facing difficulties in fulfilling their contractual obligations to
NIA. The IA development program needs revitalization to enable the IAs to assume greater
responsibilities and to help achieve the ultimate policy objective of NIA to completely turn over



- 6 -
the smaller NIS as well as lateral canal systems of bigger NIS to the LAs. NMA would then restrict
itself to delivering water services to the lAs at the lateral gates in larger NIS which cannot be
turned over in their entirety in the foreseeable future due to the complexity of operations and
maintenance of these systems.
1.12  Government Strategy for the Water Resources Sector. Broad national water policies are
embodied in the Philippines Water Code. However, there is a lack of a coherent and
comprehensive strategy for the development and protection of water resources at the national and
sectoral levels. Sub-sectoral strategies relating to water supply and sanitation, flood control,
irrigation, etc. have been developed and adopted in the Medium-Term Philippine Development
Plan. Although these sub-sectoral strategies have provided guidance in determining development
programs, the Government recognizes the absence of a cross sectoral strategy. The Government
is now keen to initiate an integrated approach to water resources management (para. 1.3). A
Cabinet-level Water Management Cluster was established in 1994, and serves as the advisory
committee to the President and the Cabinet on matters related to the water resources sector. It
provides for the first time a focal point at the highest policy-making level for discussions on water
sector issues. The Bank has so far supported the Government's sub-sectoral initiatives in the
water sector through technical assistance, policy dialogue and lending. To improve irrigation
management, the latest is the IOSP II (Loan 3607-PH, approved in FY93). The project's main
emphasis, apart from systems improvement and repair, is on achieving an improved and
sustainable level of operation and maintenance of NIS. To assist NIA in improving irrigation
service delivery, and to expand the irrigated area further, additional investment projects for
systems improvement and new construction are required. While a few new large-scale irrigation
and multipurpose projects may be justified, the priority would be improvement and repair of
existing NIS (which continue to be NIA's responsibility), and construction and rehabilitation of
communal and small-scale irrigations schemes (devolved to local government units), which would
require smaller investments but yield faster returns.
1.13 Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Operations. Overall water resources management
would be a new Bank activity in the country. Based on experiences elsewhere, institutional
coordination and strong leadership by the regulatory agency (or agencies) are likely to be critical.
Considerable attention to this component and continued dialogue with the Government on policy
and institutional issues would be needed during implementation. Bank experience with watershed
management in the Philippines is also meager at this stage. The most important lesson emerging
from one ongoing and three completed Bank-supported projects is the need for stakeholder
participation in the planning and implementation of watershed management to ensure
sustainability, and the need for sustainable technologies and livelihood programs for the people
occupying the watersheds. Another major lesson is the need for appropriate institutional
arrangements for watershed management, given the current weakness of the DENR and
inadequate coordination between the DENR and local governments. These lessons are expected
to be adequately taken into account by the study proposed under the project. As regards irrigation
projects in the Philippines, Bank experience spans almost three decades. The most recent Bank-
financed irrigation projects, which have been completed or are under implementation, are IOSP I
(Loan 2948-PH, approved in FY88), IOSP II (Loan 3607-PH, approved in FY93), and Second
Communal Irrigation Development Project (CIDP II, Loan 3261-PH, approved in FY91). The
IOSP I was completed satisfactorily, with the economic rate of return at completion estimated at



- 7 -
21%. The implementation of CIDP II and IOSP II was initially delayed, principally due to
inadequate counterpart funding, but is now satisfactory. The major lessons, which have been
learned from those projects and incorporated in the design of this project, are: cost-effective
structural interventions (repairs of damages, restoration of capacities, measures to reduce water
losses, improved control and regulating structures, etc.) contributing to the improvement of water
management in NIS should be adopted along with institutional strengthening within the
framework of an Irrigation System Improvement Plan; beneficiaries are more likely to pay ISF if
they actually benefit from O&M and other NIS improvement work; and development of lAs and
training them for the transfer of O&M responsibilities reduced NIA's costs and, in several
instances, O&M and ISF collection by lAs improved in systems where IAs were responsible
compared to systems where they were not.
2.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Formulation and Design
2.1   The need for a follow-on project to IOSP II (Loan 3607-PH) to continue the program
approach to irrigation systems improvement and repair was discussed during the negotiat:ons of
IOSP II in April 1993. However, given the increasingly apparent weaknesses in the overall water
resources management in the Philippines and the comprehensive approach advocated in the
Bank's water sector policy paper, it was agreed that the follow-on project would have a much
broader framework. Accordingly, a Bank mission identified the project in October/Noiember
1993. A Japanese grant was obtained for project preparation and a consultants' team started work
on the background papers in February 1994. The papers were completed in December 1994 and,
based on the papers, NIA completed a feasibility report for the project in December 1995. For the
preparation of the water resources management component of the project, NWRB and NI A were
assisted by another team of consultants (para. 1.4). The project was pre-appraised by a Bank
mnission in November/December 1995 and appraised in February/March 1996. Negotiatiolis were
held on September 16-18, 1996.
2.2   The main design alternatives considered for the project were a straight forward follow-on
to IOSP II or a broader-based project. The latter alternative was chosen to responc to the
Government's desire to initiate a comprehensive approach to water resources and watershed
management (para. 1.3). The irrigation subsector, which is the predominant water user in the
country, was retained in the project to help realize the synergies discussed in para. l.8. The
project as designed would, for the first time in a foreign-assisted project, bring together three
principal agencies in the water resources sector: NWRB, DENR, and NIA, and other agencies
involved in data collection. This collaboration would be essential in pursuing a river basin
approach in the future. For the irrigation sub-sector component, the main design alternatives
considered were improvements in existing NIS or construction of new NIS. The former
alternative was chosen, given the substantial scope that exists for increasing the irrigated area at a
relatively low cost through improvement works, including provision of drainage for waterlogged
areas. For choosing the NIS to be included in the project, several technical, econcmic and
institutional criteria were used (para 2.9).



-8 -
Country Assistance Strategy
2.3   The project is consistent with the country assistance strategy (CAS), which was discussed
by the Board on April 4, 1996. The ultimate objective of the Bank Group's assistance to the
Philippines, as defined in the CAS document, is to promote sustainable development and help
achieve a more rapid reduction in poverty. Within this overall framework, four specific objectives
have been identified: (a) supporting the Governrment's efforts to convert the current economic
recovery into a period of sustained growth, which is vital for poverty reduction; (b) strengthening
the country's infrastructure to enable such growth; (c) assisting in the design and implementation
of more effective and efficient mechanisms for poverty alleviation while upgrading the quality of
social services available to the poor; and (d) supporting sustainable management of natural
resources and protecting the environment. To pursue the second objective (infrastructural
strengthening), Bank support for improved water resources management has been given a high
priority. For the third objective (poverty alleviation), increasing the productivity and incomes of
poor lowland farmers through improved irrigation services has been identified as an important
area for Bank intervention Finally, for the fourth objective, expanding natural resource
management (including watershed management) programs, strengthening the technical capability
of the NWRB, and improving the efficiency of existing irrigation schemes, have been identified as
priority areas for Bank support.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.4   The Bank has been actively involved since 1992 in a policy dialogue relating to water
sector reforms in the Philippines. A Water Supply Sector Reform Study, financed by a Japanese
grant and executed by the Bank, was carried out in 1993. The study made a few recommendations
for the NWRB, mainly from the water supply sector viewpoint. Two Japanese grants were
executed by the Bank for the preparation of the water resources management component of this
project (para. 1.4). Bank involvement in this project would be invaluable, based on the following
considerations: (a) the Government is keen to initiate a comprehensive approach to water
resources planning and management and has requested Bank assistance for this purpose; (b) the
project would facilitate continued Bank policy dialogue with the Government on water sector
reforms; (c) the project would lay the ground work for a river basin approach to water resources
development and management in the Philippines, which would integrate land use policies and
agricultural practices with water management, and thus help implement the Bank's water sector
policy; (d) the project would help formulate a long-term strategy and investment and institutional
strengthening program for watershed management, which could have a far-reaching impact on
poverty alleviation in the uplands and on environmentally sustainable development, and which
could be supported by the Bank and other donors through program lending; and (e) the project's
irrigation investment component has important poverty alleviation, environmental improvement,
and institutional strengthening objectives, including revitalization of NIA's pioneering approach to
participatory irrigation development, which has drawn considerable international attention.
Project Objectives and Components
2.5   The project would assist the Government in developing an appropriate policy and
institutional framework to improve water resources planning, development and management in



- 9 -
the country; initiating an integrated and comprehensive approach to watershed management to
sustain water sources; improving efficiency of existing irrigation systems, and thereby increasing
agricultural production (mainly rice), and alleviating rural poverty; improving irrigation services in
the long term by accelerating management turnover of irrigation systems to water users and by
increasing NIA's institutional effectiveness; and improving the environment in irrigated areas,
mainly by controlling schistosomiasis, a water-borne disease.
2.6   The five-year project, to be implemented from January 1997, would include the following
components:
(a)   improved water resources planning and management: preparation of a national
water resources plan; improvement of national data collection networks;
establishment of a national water information network; and strengthening of
NWRB (US$ 4.5 million or 5% of total project cost);
(b)   improved  watershed  management: formulation  of a national watershed
management strategy and investment and institutional strengthening program;
investments for the improved management of a few high priority watersheds; and
training/study tour for DENR and NIA staff relating to watershed management
programs in other countries (US$15.0 million or 17% of total project cost);
(c)   improvement and repair of NIS: improvement of 14 systems, repairs to eight major
structures in other NIS and strengthening of Masiway dam, and construction of
sediment exclusion structures in another five NIS (US$ 61.2 million or 72% of
total project cost);
(d)   institutional strengthening of NIA  and IAs: provision of staff training,
consultancies, and computers for strengthening of NIA; and strengthening of LAs
through provision of training, consultancies, and incremental operating costs to
facilitate progressive management turnover of systems to them (US$3.0 million or
4% of total project cost); and
(e)   environmental improvement: control of schistosomiasis in 3 NIS; erosion control
works in 31 NIS; sediment monitoring in 3 NIS; and establishment of an
Environment Unit within NIA and provision of training and consultancy to the
Unit (US$1.4 million or 2% of total project cost).
Detailed Project Features
Improved Water Resources Management
2.7   The project would finance: (i) the formulation of a national water resources plan to
provide a coherent framework for the orderly development and management of the country's
water and related land resources. The plan would provide NWRB a basis for the coordination and
integration of policies, strategies, river basin plans and programs of all stakeholders, and the
technical information on which to base recommendations to the Government regarding the
consistency and priority of programs and projects as they affect the water resources. The



- 10-
preparation of the plan is seen as an iterative process: the aim would be to develop a flexible
planning system capable of continuous evolution rather than to present a rigid blue print; (ii) the
design of and some essential equipment for the establishment and improvement of national data
collection networks for stream flow, ground water and water quality; (iii) the design of and
equipment for the establishment of a national water information network (NWIN), a personal
computer-based system to link the data bases of the NWRB with those of other important
agencies for improved data dissemination and easy access; and (iv) the strengthening of NWRB's
technical capability through appropriate staffing, training, consultancy, equipment and
organizational changes. Further details on the component are in para. 4.2 and Annex 1, and the
draft TOR for the three studies in i-iii above are at Annex 1. The three studies are expected to be
completed by the end of 1999. While the project provides for the technical basis to help improve
water resources management, and to a certain extent, the institutional basis, by strengthening
NWRB and establishing its Regional offices, many institutional and policy measures, and, in the
longer-term, legal and regulatory measures, which would maximize project impact, would need to
be implemented after further studies and discussion among all stakeholders. Some of these
measures are recommended in the action plan formulated as part of project preparation (para. 1.4)
and more would emerge from the national water resources plan to be prepared under the project
and the ongoing separate study on economic regulation of water utilities being undertaken jointly
by the Bank, Asian Development Bank, and the United States Agency for International
Development. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would hold annual
consultations with the Bank on the progress in establishing a comprehensive institutional and
policy framework for water resources management in the country in accordance with the action
plan formulated as part of project preparation.
Improved Watershed Management
2.8   This component would initiate a national program of a comprehensive, integrated,
community-based watershed management by formulating a long-term strategy and program of
investments and institutional strengthening (after a detailed inventory of all the watersheds
considered critical, which would provide information on the degree of degradation, cause and
location, the significance of each critical watershed for existing and future basin infrastructure and
economic development, and current and planned watershed management projects and programs in
the country), and preparing detailed management plans for the watersheds identified as high
priority. It is expected that the integrated national watershed improvement program formulated
under the project would be suitable for support by the multilateral and bilateral development
agencies in the short to long term. Phases I and II (with separate tasks defined under each Phase)
of the study, which would produce a national watershed management strategy, and a long term
investment and institutional strengthening program for watershed management, would be
undertaken together and are estimated to require a six to nine month period. The Phase III would
involve the preparation of management plans for selected critical watersheds after completion of
Phases I and II. Draft TOR for the study are at Annex 3. The study is expected to be completed
by the end of 1998. A small allocation has been made under the component for investments in
improving management of a few high priority watersheds, which would be undertaken following
the completion of the study and management plans. Before disbursement of the Bank loan for
investments in the selected critical watersheds, the DENR would provide a list of such watersheds



- 11 -
to the Bank for its concurrence. The component also includes a small provision for DENR and
NIA staff for training/study tour relating to watershed management programs in other countries.
Systems Improvement and Repair
2.9   Systems Improvement. The project would provide for the improvement of 14 national
irrigation systems serving about 110,000 ha. The provision would be for works and some heavy
equipment (two amphibious draglines and one motor grader). The 14 systems were selected by
NIA in consultation with the water users on the basis of agreed technical, economic and
institutional criteria (Annex 4). Water users of these systems have signed Memoranda of
Understanding pledging their cooperation and labor contribution. Before disbursement of the
Bank loan for system improvements, NIA would prepare, in consultation with project
beneficiaries, and forward to the Bank, an Irrigation System Improvement Plan satisfactory to the
Bank (a general outline is at Annex 5), for each of the selected systems, justifying proposed
improvements.
2.10  The indicative program of works for the improvement of the 14 selected NIS has been
prepared in detail by NIA after consultations with the lAs, who have agreed to contribute to the
implementation costs on the basis of separate cost estimates for the works pertaining to each IA.
A program approach has been adopted for the implementation of the improvement works
whereby detailed preparation has been undertaken for six NIS on which works would commence
during the first project year, and further detailed preparation would be undertaken for the
remaining eight NIS on which works would commence in the second year. The systems on which
works would commence in the first year are: San Pablo-Cabagan, Tumauini, District II of Magat
River Integrated Irrigation System, Balanac, Baco-Bucayao, and Andanan. The availability of
water for the anticipated incremental irrigated areas in the wet and dry seasons at these six NIS,
as well as six of the other eight NIS on which works would commence in the second year, has
been confirmed by water balance studies. Proposed system improvement works on the 14 NIS
would include construction of silt excluders, new regulating and control structures for water level
control and equitable distribution of water based on an Irrigation System Improvement Plan,
resectioning of the canals through desilting and strengthening of the banks, repair of damaged
structures (checks, siphons, etc.), installation of missing gates on regulators and offiakes for the
laterals, complete remodeling of turnout control depending on acceptability by the water users,
and installation of measurement and other facilities for effective system operation to ensure good
water management. The activities to be undertaken as part of systems improvement are detailed at
Annex 6. A few systems would also include drainage improvement, check structures on the drains
for re-use of return flow, and augmentation of water from adjacent streams through link canals.
These works may require limited acquisition of land and other property. The extent of the
required acquisition is not known for many of the selected NIS at present, since detailed
preparation of their improvement proposals is yet to be completed. A Policy Framework for the
Resettlement of Project-Affected Families was, therefore, prepared by the Government before
negotiations, and agreed with the Bank. The Policy Framework establishes the principles and
procedures for compensation, and monitoring arrangements. Provision of 10 person-months of
consultancy for assistance to NIA in the preparation of resettlement action plans, if needed, and
for external monitoring of resettlement activities, has been made under the project. Before
disbursement of the Bank loan for works on any NIS selected for improvement, which requires



- 12 -
acquisition of land and other property, NIA would undertake such acquisition, compensation
therefor, and resettlement, in accordance with the principles and procedures laid down in the
Policy Framework, and, where a resettlement action plan is required under the Policy Framework,
prepare such a plan acceptable to the Bank, and complete the implementation of the plan in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.11  As regards dam safety, the irrigation schemes, to be improved under the project, depend
on two storage dams (Magat and Angat) and several diversion structures (also called '"ams" in
the nomenclature used by NIA) for the water deliveries to the irrigation network. Moreover,
strengthening of Masiway, which is one of the five dams in the Pantabangan (storage dam)
complex, is also included in the project. The Dam Safety Unit of NIA is responsible for
monitoring the safety of the Magat dam and the dams in the Pantabangan complex, and for
preparing six-monthly reports based on site inspections, and analysis of instrumentation data
observed by field staff. Independent dam safety monitoring was also undertaken for these dams by
the consultants who carried out implementation designs, at intervals of about two to five years
after completion, for a period of ten to fifteen years. The contracts having expired, independent
monitoring is currently not being carried out. Monitoring reports of Magat dam indicate that there
are no safety issues. The Pantabangan complex was hit by a major earthquake in 1990. The dams
had acceptable settlements (without any significant slip failure) in the entire dam length, except
Masiway where the settlements were high. The structural stability of these dams was examined
under the Bank-supported Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 3263-PH), which indicated
that only Masiway dam required strengthening against possible damage in a future major
earthquake. Additional investigations and tests are in progress for finalizing the strengthening
measures. These remedial works would be financed under the major repairs sub-component of the
project (para. 2.12). The National Power Corporation (NPC) monitors the safety of the Angat
dam. The monitoring reports, prepared annually, indicate that there are no safety issues. The
safety of the diversion structures for NIS is monitored by the O&M staff of NIA as a part of their
maintenance responsibilities. No separate annual monitoring reports are prepared. All of these
structures are in good shape except Bustos diversion structure, which also has the function of
balancing the peak power releases from the Angat dam, and which had extensive damage to gates
in a typhoon flood. NIA has received external grant funding for the remedial measures for Bustos.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would ensure that all dams and
reservoirs supplying water to the irrigation systems under the project would be maintained and
inspected periodically in accordance with sound engineering practice, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.12 Major Repairs. Eight NIS (other than the 14 selected for improvements) have been
identified for repairs to major structures or to rectify the problem created by the shifting and
retrogression of the parent rivers and consequent lowering of the water level. This problem is
faced in Lower Chico and Sibalom-San Jose NIS, which do not have a diversion structure on the
river. At the other six NIS, repairs have to be carried out to the damages to the diversion
structures. At Aklan-Panakuyan, repairs are to be carried out to a major siphon as well. At Lower
Chico, the project would also finance improvement of the system in the abandoned tail reaches. In
addition to major repairs in the eight NIS, the project would finance strengthening of Masiway
dam (para 2.11). In the first year, repairs would commence at five NIS (Lower Chico, Apayao-
Abulog, Sta. Cruz-Mabacan, Alcan-Panakuyan, and Tago). Strengthening of Masiway dam would



- 13 -
also commence in the last quarter of the first year. Deferment of major repairs entails a high risk
because a much larger damage could occur without any warning, and require much costlier
repairs, and result in service interruptions and crop losses.
2.13  The collection of site data and designs of remedial measures for the first year works have
been completed. The drawings for implementation would be completed by the end of 1996.
Detailed designs and drawings for the repairs to the structures at the remaining three NIS would
be completed later since work at two NIS would start in the second year and at one in the third
year. The design of the strengthening measures for Masiway dam would be finalized for
implementation before the end of 1997.
2.14  Silt Excluders. The project would provide for the construction of silt excluders (including
ejectors and/or settling basins) at five NIS, other than the 14 selected for improvement (the
improvement of 14 selected systems would include three silt excluders). The silt excluders would
solve the problem of the loss of system capacity during the irrigation season which affects the
delivery of the required water for irrigation, and would also reduce silt removal costs, which are
at present a substantial part of NMA's annual budget for O&M of irrigation systems. The sediment
samples at different locations have been collected and their analysis completed. Work is proposed
to commence in the first year on the silt excluder at Malasila NIS (and at Dipolo and M'Lang
MIS, included in the systems improvement sub-component). The drawings for the layout and
profiles of silt excluders at these NIS have been completed, and detailed working drawings for
implementation would be finalized by the end of 1996.
Institutional Strengthening of NIA and L4s
2.15  Strengthening of NIA. The activities proposed for this sub-component are detailed below:
(a)   For the computerized management information system (MIS), the project would
provide for hardware and software acquisition, application systems and data base
development, installation, training, and consultancy. The major benefits of MIS
development would be computerized ISF billing, better equipment inventory and
management, improved accounting system and faster auditing, and improved
performance monitoring of NIS. Details of NIA's current and proposed MIS are in
Project Files (Feasibility Report by NIA, Vol. 2).
(b)   The sub-component to streamline NIA's accounting system would provide funds
for training of internal auditing staff and for consultants to: (i) reconcile all of
NIA's previous accounts (both at the Head Office and in the field) and recommend
follow-up action on those accounts that can either be no longer reconciled or for
which supporting documents have been lost; (ii) prepare a revised accounting
manual; and (iii) train NIA staff in correctly recording the accounting entries in
accordance with the revised procedures. Details of the sub-component and NMA's
accounting system and financial performance are at Annex 7.
(c)   While some heavy equipment would be provided under the project (para. 2.9), the
main institutional emphasis would be on the formulation of an equipment
management policy, which, inter alia, would focus on disposal of unusable



- 14 -
equipment, increased utilization of workable equipment through Regional pooling
and redeployment, increased renting out, and privatization of workshops, where
feasible and desirable. Much of NIA's heavy equipment (32%) is unserviceable and
needs to be disposed of However, disposal has been extremely slow due to
cumbersome procedures. Equipment utilization, particularly for heavy equipment,
is very low due to lack of work to do, high ratio of unserviceable equipment, and
difficulties in renting out equipment. There is also a shortage of good mechanics
and operators at NIA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that NIA would
formulate an equipment management policy, and, by the end of 1997, furnish it to
the Bank for comments.
(d)   Training of NIA staff would continue to be a high priority under the project. While
a significant provision for NIA staff training was made under the IOSP II (Loan
3607-PH) and funds are still available for some training, additional provision under
the project would be made for: (i) local refresher training courses for the design
staff at the HQ and the Regional offices; (ii) local training of staff and operators
involved in equipment management; (iii) local training of accounting staff (see (b)
above); (iv) local training in computerized MIS (see (a) above); (v) overseas
training in sediment monitoring (para. 2.22); (vi) overseas study tour to observe
irrigation management methods and programs for turnover of irrigation
management to water users; and (vii) overseas study tour to observe watershed
management programs (para. 2.8).
2.16  Strengthening of lAs. The provision for IA development under the project includes IA
training, training of Institutional Development Officers (IDOs) and Farmer Irrigator Organizers
(FIOs), consultancy for monitoring and evaluation of the IA development program and for
development of IA federations, and incremental operating costs. The incremental operating costs
are mainly for about 1,000 FIOs, who would be recruited for one year each from among the
fanner beneficiaries to help improve the performance of non-functional lAs (about 40% of the lAs
were reported to be non-functional in a recent survey by the Institutional Development
Department (IDD) of NIA). Honoraria for the Water Resources Facilities Technicians (WRFTs),
who, under the project, would be selected and trained to perform the job of IDOs, have also been
included in the incremental operating costs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, in
accordance with the institutional development program (IDP), NIA would, by the end of 1997,
identify IDOs in Regional offices and transfer them to the field; identify and train WRFTs to work
as IDOs; and provide revised job descriptions to all staff involved in the IDP (WRFTs, IDOs and
Senior IDOs) before they undertake their new duties.
2.17 The project's IA development and management turnover program sets targets over a 15-
year period for turnover of operation and maintenance of laterals and sub-laterals in larger
systems and complete turn over of smaller systems to the lAs (details are at Annex 8). The smaller
systems (service area for each about 3,000 ha or less) to be improved under the project (six
systems) and under the ongoing IOSP 11 (13 systems) cover about 25,400 ha in total. All of these
systems are targeted to be completely turned over after improvement to the lAs by the end of the
respective project periods. However, in order to overcome resistance of staff, who may be afraid
of losing their job as a result of complete turnover, MIA would have to formulate a policy to



- 15 -
protect the involved staff. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that NIA would formulate the
policy, and, by June 30, 1997, furnish it to the Bank for comments. In addition to complete
turnover of smaller systems, the improved laterals and sublaterals of the larger systems included
under the project and IOSP II would be handed over to the IAs for water distribution and
maintenance, the responsibility of NIA being only to supply the required amount of water at the
head of the lateral. To implement this policy of wholesaling of water services, NIA would bill the
IAs for water directly, rather than individual farmers. A revised Memorandum of Agreement
(MOA) is now being drafted by NIA for direct billing. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that, by June 30, 1997, NIA would enter into a revised MOA with the IAs providing for direct
billing of ISF for systems to be improved and turned over to the lAs under the project and IOSP
II. The longer-term objective of NIA is to move from direct billing to volumetric pricing at the
head of the lateral. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that NIA would pilot test volumetric
pricing on at least one lateral of a NIS by the end of 1999, in accordance with terms of reference
developed in consultation with the Bank.
2.18  The improvement proposals for the NIS included under the project have been discussed by
NIA with the lAs concemed and their concurrence (in the form of a Memorandum of
Understanding) obtained. After implementation of the improvement program, the management of
the laterals and sublaterals would be turned over to the IAs under a Memorandum of Agreement.
As under the IOSP II, the IAs would share the cost of improvement works. To help achieve the
above objectives, greater participation of the lAs in system management would be encouraged by
NIA. One way to achieve it would be to set up system management committees (SMCs),
composed of the NIA system-level staff and IA Presidents, and in case no IAs exist,
representatives elected by the farmers. The representation of other Govemment agencies, such as
the Department of Agriculture (DA), Provincial and/or Municipal Agricultural Service, Land
Bank of the Philippines, Philippine Crop Insurance Corporation, etc. would be invited whenever
needed. The SMC would discuss and decide on, inter alia, overall planning of O&M activities;
identification and implementation of physical improvement works, including the planning of
farmer contributions; inspection, approval, and turnover/acceptance of completed improvement
works; and monitoring and evaluation of individual lAs, IA federations, and overall system
performance. The SMCs would thus provide a valuable overall system management perspective to
individual lAs and facilitate their progress towards a federation and eventual take over of
complete systems. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that NIA would establish SMCs,
with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, in all systems which are being
improved under the IOSP II by June 30, 1997, and, if the results are deemed positive in
consultation with the Bank, in all systems to be improved under this project by the end of 1998.
2.19  The project would continue the emphasis of IOSP II on training programs and activities
targeted at increased participation of women in the IAs, particularly in leadership positions. It
should be noted that the status of women in the Philippines is considerably higher than in many
other developing countries, as revealed by a Bank WID assessment (1989). Under the Philippine
Civil Code, married women are joint owners of conjugal property, and a married couple is a joint
decision-making unit. Nevertheless, efforts would be continued under the WRDP to expand the
role of women in the IAs in areas such as O&M at the turnout level and ISF collection.



- 16 -
Environmental Improvement
2.20  Schistosomiasis Control. This sub-component includes support to the Department of
Health (DOH) in three NIS (Andanan, Dipolo, and M'Lang/Malasila). The prevalence rate in the
first two systems is fairly high (average 6% and 8%, respectively), and the project target is to
reduce this rate by 50% by the end of the project. The rate in M'Lang/Malasila is fairly low (1%),
and the project target is to prevent the rate from increasing. The project costs make provision for
honoraria for DOH staff for five years, as well as for equipment, drugs, toilets, consultancy and
information campaign.
2.21  Erosion Control Works. The project would fund erosion prevention in 31 NIS, particularly
targeted to cover the critical areas in the immediate vicinity of the systems. The prevention
measures would provide protection against rainfall runoff erosion of vulnerable slopes, gullies and
embankments, mainly through the use of vegetative methods such as the planting of vetiver grass
and leguminous shrubs (e.g., Leucaena, Glyricidea, and on acid soils Flamingia congesta), and
other low-cost methods where appropriate. NIA has done some watershed protection work along
these lines in Pantabangan catchment and is implementing similar work at present under the
Second Communal Irrigation Development Project and IOSP II. Vetiver grass occurs naturally in
several areas of the country. Erosion control would be adopted in seven out of 14 NIS selected
for improvement (the other seven NIS are already included for erosion control measures in the
program funded under IOSP II). In addition, erosion control at 24 other NIS would be included.
Based on IOSP II and CIDP II experience, the contracts with IAs for planting vetiver hedgerows
would be awarded for a three-year period, the first year for actual planting and the following two
years for necessary care for development. Nurseries are not planned as enough plants are
expected to be available from nearby areas. Difficulties are likely to be experienced in planting and
maintaining the hedgerows outside the irrigation system area (although in close proximity), since
farmers within the system may have little interest in the work and farmers outside the system may
not be organized. There is, therefore, a need for NIA to have a dialogue with the lAs to confirm
that the hedgerows outside the system area (reported to be the case in 10 NIS) would be planted
and properly cared for. The possibility of involving NGOs in planting and maintaining of
hedgerows outside the system area would also be considered by NIA.
2.22 Sediment Monitoring. For sediment monitoring in three NIS (Dipolo, M'Lang and Jalaur
Proper), the project would provide equipment, consultancy (two person-months), overseas
training (two staff), and incremental operating costs, including some contractual staff. The
monitoring would involve establishing the pattern of sediment load and its variation with different
flood stages, as well as the entry of the sediment into the canal intake and its movement
downstream. The information collected over a five-year period, although site-specific, would be
useful in the operation of the canal system (opening and closing of sluice and intake gates), in the
design of sediment control measures, if necessary, and as a base for assessment of the impact of
any watershed programs which may be implemented in the catchment.
2.23 Establishment of an Environment Unit. The project would provide for training and
consultancy support for an Environment Unit or Division to be created within NIA to coordinate
and implement, as necessary, all environmental assessment, management and monitoring work to
be done by NIA. The environment work in NIA is at present dispersed among various units, and it



- 17-
is necessary to consolidate the work in a single Unit or Division, which could be strengthened to
play a more effective role in addressing the environmental issues in irrigated areas. Provision for a
Land Resources and Watershed Management Division already exists under the proposed
streamlining of NIA, and this Division could very well perform the environmental functions
mentioned above. Draft terms of reference for the new Unit or Division are at Annex 9.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that NIA would establish the Unit or Division bv June
30, 1997, with functions and responsibilities defined in consultation with the Bank.
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
3.1    Total project costs, including physical contingencies and expected price increases, are
estimated at about US$85.2 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$23.4 million
(27%). The cost estimate is based on 1995 prices and includes taxes and duties of about US$1.4
million. Price contingencies were calculated on the basis of a projected foreign inflation rate of 2.3
%  p.a. and domestic inflation rate of 8.5%  for 1996, 7%  for 1997, and 6%  thereafter. Constant
purchasing power parity exchange rates were used to account for the difference in the projected
foreign and local inflation rates. Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1 and detailed in
Annex 10.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
Local   Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign Total  Foreign
----Million Pesos-        --Million USS        %
Improved Water Resource Plawnmg and Management  57.4   54.1   111.5   2.2    2.1  4.3   49
ImzrovedWatershedManagement                283.5   64.1   347.6      10.9    2.5  13.4   18
Svstems Imnrovement and Repair             992.0   390.4  1,382.4    38.2    15.0  53.2   28
Institutional Development
(a)NIAlnatitutional Strengtheing           27.2    18.4   45.6       1.1    0.7  1.8   39
(b) IA Development                         26.7    0.0   26.7        1.0    0.0  1.0      0
Enviromental lmorovement                    21.8    11.6   33.4       0.9    0.4  1.3   35
Total Base Cost                         1.40&5   538.7  1947.2      54.2   20.7  74.9   28
Physical Contingencies                     116.4   43.0   159.4       4.5    1.7  6.2   27
PriceContingencies                         236.3    75.3   311.6      3.1    1.0  4.1   24
Total Project Cost                      1,761.2   657.0  2418.2     61.8   23.4  85.2   27
Project Financing
3.2    The proposed Bank loan of US$58.0 million would finance about 70%  of total project
costs, excluding taxes. This would cover 88% of the foreign exchange component and 62% of
local costs net of taxes and duties. The remaining 12% (US$2.7 million) of foreign exchange
component is for expatriate consultants and overseas training of staff, for which Government is
exploring concessional resources from international donors, although counterpart funding has
been committed for the time being. Parallel cofinancing (grant) of US$1.2 million equivalent has
already been confirmed by the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA) for the
watershed management study. Negotiations with other international donors are in progress for



- 18 -
cofinancing of other consultant studies and overseas training. The financing plan is shown at
Annex 11, Table 1. The magnitude of local cost financing by the Bank is justified by the current
budgetary constraints which the Government faces and the expected positive impact of the project
on rural poverty (details on poverty are in paras. 6.2 and 6.3). Budget releases for the project
comprising proceeds of the Bank loan and Government counterpart funds would be channeled to
NWRB for the water resources management component, to the DENR for the watershed
management component, and through the DA to NIA in respect of irrigation development and
schistosomiasis control (the latter to be passed on to DOH under a Memorandum of Agreement).
Procurement
3.3   Procurement under the project would follow  Bank guidelines ('Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995, revised January and August
1996). Procurement of goods and works under the project would be the responsibility of NIA,
except for goods and works for watershed management, which would be handled by DENR, and
toilet construction for schistosomiasis control, which would be the responsibility of DOH. These
agencies have been involved in several Bank-supported projects, and have adequate experience in
procurement under Bank guidelines. Internal committees have been established in NIA to evaluate
bids and award contracts for goods, works and consultancies. These committees have functioned
reasonably well and no major issues have arisen in the recent past with respect to the
recommendations of the committees to the Bank for award of contracts. Similar arrangements
exist within DENR and DOH. Procurement of consultants (in case of untied procurement) would
be undertaken by DENR, NWRB, NIA, and DOH separately. NWRB would be assisted, if
needed, by NIA, which is the lead agency for the project, in the selection of consultants. Bank
staff have reviewed national procurement procedures for goods and works, and confirm that they
are acceptable to the Bank. Foreign bidders are eligible to participate in national competitive
bidding (NCB). The project expenditure items, their estimated costs, and proposed methods of
procurement are summarized in Table 3.2 and discussed below:
(a)   Goods. Construction equipment, vehicles, water data collection equipment,
computers and other office equipment, estimated at US$2.4 million, would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). A 15% margin of price
preference may be applied under ICB, in respect of goods manufactured in the
Philippines, when comparing domestic bids with foreign bids. There are likely to be
six ICB contracts. Some computers and other items of office equipment, some
vehicles, and most of the agricultural inputs and small equipment for watershed
management, which may be required in small batches at different times and
locations, may be purchased through NCB, in contracts costing less than
US$200,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.8 million.
Laboratory and other equipment for sediment monitoring, and some agricultural
inputs and equipment for watershed management, may be procured through
national shopping, with at least three quotations, in contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$0.6 million. Drugs and materials for schistosomiasis control, not exceeding
US$0.2 million in total, may be procured through direct contracting.



- 19 -
Table 3.2: Summaiy of Proposed Procurement Arrangements a/
(USS million equivalent)
Procurement Method                               Total
Expenditure Category                                     ICB  NCB          Other            N.B.F.          Cost
I.       Works
1.1  Irrigation Systems Improvement             10.0    29.6      20.0 b/              -          59.6
and Repair                              (10.0)  (21.2)    (14.2)                          (45.4)
1.2   Erosion Control                          -         -         0.4 c/              --          0.4
(0.3)                           (0.3)
1.3   Toilet Facilities for                    -         --        0.1 d/             --           0.1
Schistosomiasis Control                                    (0.1)                           (0.1)
1.4   Watershed Management                     -         -         9.2 c/              -           9.2
(6.6)                           (6.6)
2.       Goods
2.1   Construction Equipment                    0.6      -         -                   -           0.6
(including spares)                      (0.6)                                              (0.6)
2.2   ComputersandLab,Officeand                 1.5      0.2_/    0.1 f                -            1.8
Water Data Collection Equipment          (1.5)    (0.1)     (0.1)                           (1.7)
2.3   Vehicles                                  0.3      0.1       -                   -           0.4
(0.3)    (0.1)                                     (0.4)
2.4   Drugs and Materials for                   -        -         0.2 gt              -           0.2
Schistosomiasis Control                                    (0.2)                           (0.2)
2.5  Inputs and Equipment for
Watershed Management                     -          1.5      0.5 Vh                          2.0
(1.2)    (0.4)                           (1.6)
3.       Consultancies
3.1   Studies                                   -                  _                   4.1         4.1
3.2   Technical Assistance/Training             -        --        --                  0.5         0.5
4.       Miscellaneous
4.1   Overseas Training                         -        -         -                   0.2         0.2
4.2   Local Training                            -        -         -                   0.6         0.6
4.3  Incremental Operating Costs i/             -        -         4.5                 -           4.5
(1.1)                           (1. 1)
4.4   Land Acquisition                          -        -         -                   1.0          1.0
Total                                           12.4    31.4      35.0                 6.4        85.2
(12.4)   (22.6)    (23.0)              -)
N.B.F.: Not Bank Financed.
at Includes physical and price contingencies. Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the Bank.
b/ USS18.0 million through NIA force account and USS2.0 million through piece-work by farmers' groups (Irrigators' Associations).
cl Through piece-work by farmers' groups.
Al Through force account by DOH.
e/ For some computers and office equipment, required in small batches at different times.
f Through national shopping for laboratory and other equipment for sediment monitoring.
g/ Through direct contracting.
h/ Through national shopping.
i/  Includes incremental staffing costs and honoraria, administrative support cost, cost of coracting NGOs for organsing communities for
watershed management, equipment O&M coat for sediment monitoring prining. and travel cost of project daff including counterpart stff for
various project studies.



- 20 -
(b)   Works. Works for strengthening of Masiway dam and major structural repairs at
Tago irrigation system, totalling US$10.0 million, would be procured through two
separate ICB contracts. The other irrigation system improvement and repair
works, erosion control works, construction of toilet facilities for schistosomiasis
control, and community-based watershed management works, would be small,
widely scattered over the country, and, in several instances, located in remote
areas. Foreign contractors (and in some areas, local contractors) are not likely to
be interested in these works, as has been the experience in previous projects of this
nature. The works that can be defined physically for purposes of contracting out,
and lie in areas in which local contractors are likely to be interested, would be
procured under NCB. Contracts let under NCB would not exceed US$2.5 million
each, and would aggregate to about US$29.6 million, or about 43% of the total
value of works. The remaining 43% of these works would need to be carried out in
areas where contractors are not readily available; are too small or dispersed to be
economically defined for contracting out; or are most economically carried out
through off-season work by the farmers themselves. These works would either be
carried out by force account by NIA under individual tasks which would not
exceed US$600,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$18.0 million, or
through force account by DOH under individual tasks which would not exceed
US$25,000 each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$100,000, or
through piece-work by IAs and groups of farmers, in tasks not exceeding
US$200,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$11.6 million. Works carried
out by the farmers through piece-work would assist in achieving the objectives of
the project to promote community-based watershed management, and to develop
IAs which can assume responsibility for maintenance of irrigation laterals and
turnouts within their areas. Both DENR and NIA have the experience and the
capability to organize and manage the piece-work and force account operations,
for which proper cost accounting would be maintained, including the logging of
physical progress, in suitable reports which would be used for disbursements on a
basis similar to that of monthly progress payments to contractors. The number of
NCB contracts is estimated at 50, and that for farmers' groups at 300.
(c)   Consultant Services. Consultant contracts, estimated at US$4.6 million, would be
financed either through Government counterpart funds or concessional resources
from international donors, with whom negotiations are in progress (commitment
from DANIDA for US$1.2 million equivalent has already been received). About
US$4.1 million would be for studies, including formulation of a national water
resources plan, improvement of water resources data collection, establishment of a
national water information network, research studies for NWRB and improvement
of its management information system (MIS), and formulation of a watershed
management strategy and program. The balance of US$0.5 million would be for
technical assistance for the improvement of NIA's accounting system,
enviromnental work, and MIS; IA development; schistosomiasis control; and
sediment monitoring. Local firms and individuals have significant technical
competence, and are likely to be involved in most consultancy contracts,
sometimes in collaboration with foreign consultants.



- 21 -
(d)   Miscellaneous. The rest of project costs are on items which are not suitable for
competitive bidding. These would be procured in accordance with Government
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. The items include: overseas and
local training (US$0.8 million); incremental operating costs (US$4.5 million),
which include costs of new staff (for the proposed NWRB Regional Offices, IA
development (para. 2.16), and sediment monitoring), honoraria for WRFTs (para.
2.16) and DOH schistosomiasis control staff, cost of contracting NGOs and
honoraria for DENR staff for watershed management, honoraria for counterpart
staff for various project studies, costs of administrative support, equipment O&M
cost for sediment monitoring, printing, and travel cost of project staff, including
counterpart staff for various project studies; and land acquisition for new drainage
and link canal works (US$1.0 million). The costs of training and land acquisition
would be financed through the Government counterpart funds.
3.4   Procurement Review. Prior to tendering and award, the Bank would review all bidding
packages for goods valued at US$1.0 million equivalent or more, and bidding packages for works
valued at US$5.0 million equivalent or more. These thresholds are set in view of the experience of
NIA and DENR with procurement under Bank-financed projects (para. 3.3). Notwithstanding the
above thresholds, the first three bidding packages each for goods and works, regardless of value,
would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Other contracts for goods and works would be
reviewed by the Bank on a random sample basis (one out of five contracts for goods and one out
of ten contracts for works), subsequent to their award. The post-reviews would be carried out by
the Bank's Resident Mission in the Philippines. For procurement of goods and works through
ICB, the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents would be used; and for procurement of goods and
works through NCB, bidding documents submitted by NIA and DENR with the first bidding
package for goods and works would be reviewed by the Bank and, if found acceptable, the same
bidding documents would be used for all subsequent NCB procurement.
Disbursement
3.5   The Bank loan disbursement for works would be at 100% of foreign expenditures and
72% of local expenditures (excluding costs of land acquisition). Disbursements would be at 100%
against foreign exchange expenditures for imported equipment, vehicles, inputs and materials,
100% of the ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally, and 80% of expenditures for
items procured locally. Disbursement for incremental operating costs would be at 25% of total
expenditures. The proposed allocation of the loan proceeds is given in Annex 11, Table 1.
3.6   To facilitate timely project implementation and disbursements, two Special Accounts
would be established: one in the name of DENR for eligible expenditures on the watershed
management component, with an authorized allocation of US$0.5 million; and the other in the
name of NIA for all other eligible expenditures, with an authorized allocation of US$3.0 million.
The accounts would be established in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose
by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The
Accounts would cover the Bank's share of eligible project expenditures for all disbursement
categories (para. 3.5) in both local and foreign currencies. Applications for replenishment of the
Accounts, supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted regularly (preferably



- 22 -
monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the initial
deposit.
3.7   Reimbursement and disbursement applications for expenditures would be forwarded to the
Bank by DENR and NIA. Disbursements for NCB civil works contracts would be through
reimbursements on the basis of payments to contractors and certification of completion.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for actual
expenditures against: (a) contracts of less than US$5.0 million equivalent for works; (b) contracts
of less than US$1.0 million for goods and materials; (c) works under force account and
community participation; (d) incremental operating costs; and (e) engineering and administration.
All disbursement applications for force account and piece-work through SOEs would be based on
proper cost accounting, and would refer to physical progress of the relevant works. NIA and
DENR have the institutional capability to maintain required supporting documentation and
assurances were obtained at negotiations that this documentation would be made available for
review by visiting Bank missions.
3.8   The Bank loan closing date would be December 31, 2002, a year after project completion,
to allow adequate lag time for releasing contractors' retentions and processing withdrawal
applications. An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 11, Table 2, which also
includes a comparison with the Philippines' standard disbursement profile for the agricultural
sector. Although the country's agricultural sector disbursement profile indicates about a 9-year
period for full disbursements, it is expected that the Bank loan would be disbursed in 6 years from
project commencement for the following reasons: (a) the loan, in contrast to many others on
which the disbursement profile is based, would mostly finance works in operating irrigation
schemes, where the institutional and technical capacity for implementation already exists and
financial and procurement procedures are well-established; (b) the works involved in the project
are relatively simple and do not entail any complicated design, and requirements for land
acquisition are relatively small; (c) works in the different NIS would be implemented
simultaneously; and (d) project preparation is sufficiently advanced (para. 4.1) to permit an early
start on implementation. The above arguments would be invalidated if the Government
counterpart funds are delayed and insufficient, as in the past. However, the situation has already
improved and is expected to improve further (see para. 6.14). The estimated annual project
funding by the Government and the Bank is at Annex 12.
Accounts and Audit
3.9   DENR, NWRB, DOH and NIA are Government agencies and, by law, their accounts are
audited annually by the Government's Commission on Audit (COA). Separate project accounts
indicating the various sources of funds received and expended (by project component) would be
maintained by these agencies, ensuring that proper accounting and auditing procedures are
followed. After audit, the project's annual financial statements, together with the auditor's report
and opinion on the financial statements and the Special Accounts, and the auditor's separate
opinion on statements of expenditure, would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of
each fiscal year. Assurances were obtained at negotiations concerning the above accounting and
auditing arrangements.



- 23 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Status of Project Preparation
4.1   The preparation of the water resources management component, which involves
consultancies, training and equipment procurement, has been substantially completed. For the
watershed management component, recruitment of consultants for the study is expected to be
undertaken by DANIDA soon, and the preparation of the investment sub-component would begin
immediately after the completion of the study. For the component relating to irrigation systems
improvement and repair, preparatory field work needed to facilitate a smooth start up of the
project has been completed in 14 NIS to be improved and the scope of work has been agreed with
the IAs (paras. 2.9-2.10). Data collection and design work have also been completed in respect of
eight of the nine systems identified for major repairs and five systems for silt excluders. At
appraisal, the Bank reviewed the detailed program of work and funding proposal for the first year,
supported by relevant engineering data, cost estimates, and implementation arrangements, and
found them satisfactory. However, acquisition of land and other property, and compensation
therefor, wherever required, would need to be completed for the first year works before they
commence. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that work programs; engineering data; plan
for the acquisition of land and other property and compensation therefor, wherever required; cost
estimates; implementation arrangements; and funding proposals in respect of each subsequent year
would be submitted for Bank review by June 30 of each preceding year. Preparation of the
institutional strengthening and environmental improvement components has been completed and
the components are ready for implementation.
Organization and Management
4.2   The overall organization for project implementation is shown in Figure 1. A Project
Steering Committee, composed of the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA),
DA, DENR, NWRB, NIA, and DOH has been formed to deal with any policy issues which may
arise regarding the project and to ensure coordination among the implementing agencies. The
Committee would be chaired by the Administrator, NIA. NIA would provide the secretariat for
the Committee. The Project Coordinator in charge of implementing the NIA components (see
para. 4.5) would act as the Secretary to the Steering Committee. Individual agencies would form
their own project units to implement the respective project components. For the water resources
management component, the NWRB would be responsible for overall coordination, assisted by
the other sector agencies involved in the project. The NWRB would establish a Project
Management Unit (PMU) in the Office of the Executive Director with staff deputized from
different divisions. Under the guidance of the Executive Director, and working closely with other
NWRB divisions, the PMU would: (i) oversee the project on behalf of NWRB, and coordinate
with NIA and other agencies involved in the project; (ii) be responsible for the recruitment of
consultants (in case of untied procurement) for the water resources management component and
their supervision; (iii) prepare regular monitoring reports as required; (iv) submit disbursement
claims to the Bank through NIA, and (v) prepare the completion report evaluating the outcome of
the water resources management component. The detailed implementation arrangements for the



- 24 -
technical tasks and institutional strengthening of NWRB included in the component would be as
follows:
(a)   for the technical tasks, the primary responsibility would be with the Policy and
Programs Division of NWRB, which would maintain close coordination with the
PMU. The Division would establish three separate task forces: (i) for the data
monitoring activity, an inter-agency task force would be formed, comprising
NWRB and agencies participating in the data design program, i.e., Bureau of
Research and Standards (BRS), Environmental Management Bureau (EMB), and
Mines and Geosciences Bureau (MGB). This set up would later be converted into
a National Water Resources Data Coordinating Center (NWDCC) to take the lead
in coordinating all activities related to water resources data in the country; (ii) for
NWIN, the inter-agency task force would include NWRB and other participating
agencies (BRS, EMB, MGB, Philippines Atmospheric, Geophysical and
Astronomical Administration (PAGASA), NIA, LWUA and NEDA); the task
force would provide the counterpart staff and facilities for the NWIN consultants;
and (iii) for the National Water Resources Plan (NWRP), the involved agencies
would nominate project coordinators and technical staff to form an inter-agency
task force, which would provide the counterpart staff and facilities for the NWRP
consultants. For the NWRP, the Government would also establish a high-level
Water Resources Plan Steering Commnittee, which would consist of the heads of
the relevant agencies -- NEDA, DPWH, DENR, Department of Interior and Local
Government (DILG), DA, NWRB, MWSS, LWUA, NIA and NPC. Both the
NWDCC and NWIN offices within NWRB would be permanent although in due
course they may be merged. The NWRP office may be merged with the Policy and
Programs Division once the consultants have completed their assignment. The
three task forces would be responsible for finalizing the TOR for the three studies.
A Memorandum of Agreement would be signed between NWRB and each
participating agency after the effectiveness of the loan agreement between the
Government and the Bank. Assurances were obtained at nezotiations that, by June
30, 1997, the Government, through the NWRB, would assign to the BRS, MGB
and EMB the formal responsibility for maintaining national networks for
streamflow, ground water and water quality data collection, respectively, and that
NWRB would establish the NWDCC with functions and responsibilities defined in
consultation with the Bank; and
(b)   for institutional strengthening, NWRB would establish a Committee to oversee the
implementation of the general reorganization, in particular the creation of Regional
offices once these have received Government approval. Subject to the decisions
and guidance of this Committee, the Administration and Finance Division of
NWRB would take primary responsibility for implementing institutional
strengthening. In particular, it would coordinate with NIA for the procurement of
equipment and vehicles included under the project for water resources
management component, and would provide counterpart staff and facilities for the
MIS consultancy. The agencies receiving equipment through this Division would
be responsible for operating and maintaining them. With regard to training, the



- 25 -
PMU would identify appropriate training institutions, select candidates and
coordinate the programs.
4.3   For the watershed management component, the DENR would have the primary
responsibility, which would be performed by a small technical group headed by the Director,
Forest Management Bureau. The technical group would include representatives from EMB and
MGB, who would be involved in the water resources management component (para 4.2), and
DENR staff involved in watershed management and Policy and Planning. The DENR would take
the initiative in establishing a Watershed Management Steering Committee to oversee the
consultants' study. The Committee would be composed of DENR (chair), DA, Department of
Agrarian Reform, NEDA, DILG, NIA, NPC, Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC), at least
one LGU, and one representative from a federation of NGOs. The DENR would also assign its
own staff to the consultants' team as counterparts and arrange to get counterpart staff from NIA,
NPC, PNOC and LGUs. The arrangements for training/study tour would also be made by the
DENR, in consultation with NIA. For investments in improving management of a few high
priority watersheds, following the completion of the consultants' study, the implementation
arrangements would be worked out by the Watershed Management Steering Committee in the
light of institutional and other recommendations made by the consultants.
4.4   For the schistosomiasis control sub-component, the DOH would have the primary
implementation responsibility, with close cooperation of the Municipal Health Offices and NIA
irrigation system offices in Andanan, M'Lang/Malasila and Dipolo. The Director, Schistosomiasis
Control Service, DOH, would provide overall coordination and supervision, and prepare progress
reports on the basis of information supplied by its Regional Schistosomiasis Control Offices,
which would implement the sub-component. The equipment, drugs, materials and funds would be
passed on to DOH by NIA under a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA). The execution of such a
MOA, satisfactory to the Bank, would be required before disbursement of the Bank loan for the
schistosomiasis control sub-co'mponent.
4.5   For all other project activities, NIA would have the implementation responsibility. NIA
has extensive experience in the planning, design and construction of irrigation projects, and has
pioneered the participatory approach to irrigation development in the Philippines. A Project
Coordinator (PC) would be designated to handle project activities under the Manager of the
Systems Management Department (SMD) of NIA. The PC would be primarily responsible for
project implementation through NIA's Regional Irrigation Offices (RIOs), for project monitoring,
and for preparation of progress reports for NIA senior management and the Bank. The PC would
have support at the headquarter from: the Project Development Department (PDD), for overall
preparation of work programs in accordance with the approved project proposal; the Design and
Specification Department (DSD), for engineering design; the Equipment Management
Department (EMD), for equipment specifications and supervision of equipment operation and
maintenance; the Procurement and Physical Resource Department, for procurement; the
Institutional Development Department (IDD), for issues relating to the IAs and NIA's Irrigation
Management Information System (IMIS); the Training and Development Division of the
Personnel and Records Management Department, for the training sub-component; and the
Controllership Department (CD), for financial matters. A team of about 15 technical staff from
concerned departments, together with necessary support staff, would be assigned full-time to the



- 26 -
PC and be located within SMD. The Environrnent Unit or Division to be established under the
project (para. 2.23) would assist in the implementation of the erosion control, schistosomiasis
control, and sediment monitoring sub-components. A Technical Advisory Committee, chaired by
the Assistant Administrator for Project Development and Implementation, and with the Assistant
Administrators for Systems Operation and Equipment Management, and Finance and
Administration, as members, would convene at least quarterly, to review implementation and
provide guidance on policy matters and resolution of problems affecting the irrigation component
of the project. The PC would act as Secretary to the Technical Advisory Committee.
4.6   Supported by the Treasury and Controllership Department, the PC would arrange for
release of funds to the Regions, maintain records of financing transactions and exercise overall
control of project funds. The PC would also conduct inspections of project works to ensure
compliance with quality standards, examine progress of work in all Regions to ensure that civil
works and institutional development are carried out on schedule and that the work done is of the
required quality.
4.7   At the field level, project work would be implemented by the system-level offices and
RIOs, supervised by Regional Irrigation Managers. All surveys, plans, work programs, designs,
cost estimates, and contract documents for minor works would be prepared by the respective
system-level offices and RIOs. The IDD at the headquarter would provide planning and
implementation assistance to the RIOs to implement the IA development work through individual
Institutional Development Officers (IDOs) at the irrigation system level (organizational details for
IA development are at Annex 8).
4.8   The quality of all civil works would be routinely monitored at the field level by Quality
Control Teams, which are to be established at the Regional level under the ongoing IOSP II, as
well as by a centrally-located Quality Control Team (comprising SMD, DSD, EMD, and IDD) at
NIA headquarters, which has already been established, and which would coordinate the work of
the field teams and also periodically monitor work in the field in conjunction with the field units.
The Teams would provide their reports to the PC. The findings of these Teams, and actions taken
in respect of any problems identified would be included in the semi-annual project progress
reports (para. 4.13).
4.9   As a safeguard against unwarranted overspending in the course of implementation of
works, any work where a substantial adverse change is observed at the design finalization or
construction stage, such as an increase in estimated cost or decrease in benefits or a combination
of these factors (of more than 15%), would be proceeded with only after being fully re-evaluated
by the PC and reviewed by PDD and other relevant NIA headquarter departments, and after
obtaining NIA senior management's approval. The Bank would be kept informed of such cases
and of the results of the re-evaluation. Work not conforming to the above procedure would be
ineligible for financing under the project. In order to facilitate this arrangement, MA has
introduced control measures at the work program submission and budget release stages to ensure
that initially approved expenditure levels are not exceeded in the course of implementation
without the prior approval from NIA's senior management.



- 27 -
Implementation Schedule
4.10  Project implementation would be over five years (1997-2001). For project studies to
commence in the first year, consultants are expected to be recruited by mid-1997. The
Government has agreed to identify appropriate counterpart staff for various project studies by the
end of 1996 and assign those staff full-time to the studies. Bid invitations for construction,
vehicles, and office equipment would be issued soon after loan effectiveness, so that the award of
contracts can be made during the first project year. In order to facilitate the timely commencement
of construction activities, all preparatory work would be completed within the year preceding
construction. Preparatory work would include IA development, field investigation, preliminary
design, consultation with the beneficiaries, finalization of designs and cost estimates, preparation
of tender and contract documents and force account work programs, and plans for acquisition of
land and other property, where required. All activities related to formation of lAs, training and
other institutional support are expected to commence during the project's first year and continue
for the duration of the project. The project implementation schedule is shown in Figure 2.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) and Reporting Requirements
4.11  The project has multiple objectives and some of its development impacts would not be
easily measurable. It is, therefore, necessary to have some proxy indicators, which would provide
a reasonable basis to assume that the project achieved its intended development impact. Given
multiple components and the difficulties of impact measurement for some components,
development impact weights have been assigned to the five components, and further, key
performance indicators have been chosen and assigned weights. A detailed discussion of the
indicators and weights is at Annex 13. The key indicators to be used to measure project
development impact would be: (a) formulation of a national water resources development and
management plan (a proxy indicator for improved water resources management); (b) formulation
of a strategy and program of investments and institutional strengthening for watershed
management (a proxy indicator for improved watershed management); (c) increase in irrigated
area in the 14 selected irrigation systems (a proxy indicator for increased production, income and
employment of small farmers and landless agricultural workers, leading to rural poverty
alleviation); (d) full recovery of O&M expenses of the 14 selected NIS from ISF collections and
NIA's equipment rental income by the end of the project; (e) number of improved NIS and
laterals and sub-laterals turned over to IAs (a proxy indicator for more efficient, equitable and
sustainable irrigation services), compared to the implementation plan; and (f) reduction in
schistosomiasis prevalence in 2 NIS and maintenance of the current prevalence in another NIS.
The increase in irrigated area, which would help achieve the project's production and poverty
alleviation objectives, would be measured directly during project implementation, and indirectly
cross-checked through two main sub-indicators: (a) number and length of drainage canals
excavated and improved, compared to the original project target; and (b) number and length of
irrigation canals and laterals improved, compared to the target. The above main indicators, along
with some other indicators of lesser weight, and baseline figures for some indicators, along with
their expected values at mid-term review (end of 1999), at preparation of implementation
completion report (year 2002), and at full impact (year 2004) are shown in Appendix 1 of
Annex 13.



- 28 -
4.12 Irrigation Management Information System (IMIS). The main information relating to the
irrigation subsector indicators above would be generated by IMIS, which NIA introduced in 1987
to speedily provide Irrigation System Superintendents and NIA management with system
performance information required for monitoring and managing the NIS. Data collected and
evaluated under IMIS include: (a) operations--water availability and requirement, adequacy of
releases, and status of land and crop development; (b) maintenance--maintenance and repair
activities planned and carried out, and condition of facilities; (c) ISF--area planted and area
exempted from ISF with justification, current ISF collectibles, collections and status of back
accounts; (d) expenditures--on system operation, maintenance and emergency repairs; and (e)
production--type of crop, areas and yields and details of production problems encountered. With
assistance provided under IOSP I, IMIS was partially introduced in 30 NIS in Regions I to V and
X to XII, covering about 170,000 ha. However, the original IMIS involved only NIA personnel at
the system level and had no participation of the IAs in the process of data collection. For the IAs,
NIA piloted the introduction of an Irrigator Association Management Information System
(IAMIS), on the lines of IMIS, to be carried out by IAs to generate performance inforznation
relevant for areas they cover. IMIS has now been modified and refined by NIA, and a manual of
procedures has been prepared. Since the modified IMIS also involves the lAs, IAMIS is no longer
relevant. Training in modified IMIS has been provided to NIA staff in over 20 NIS so far, and
training of lAs has commenced. The modified IMIS is expected to replace the current monitoring
system in the 18 NIS included for improvement under IOSP II, by end-1996, and in the 14 NIS
included under WRDP, in 1997. Technical assistance has been provided under IOSP II to review,
inter alia, IMIS, and recommend simplification and refinements, if necessary. The TA is expected
to start before the end of 1996.
4.13  The implementation progress of each of the project components (project inputs and
processes, and, where possible, project outputs) would be monitored regularly and semi-annual
project progress reports (for June 30 and December 31 of each year, commencing in 1997) would
be submitted to the Bank within two months after the end of each semester. NIA would be
responsible for consolidating its own progress report with those of DENR, DOH and NWRB, and
submitting it to the Bank. Assurances were obtained at negotiations relating to the above. The
Bank's Supervision Plan is shown at Annex 14.
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, PRICES, AND MARKET PROSPECTS
Agricultural Production
5.1   Present Cropping Pattern. In the NIS, palay (paddy) is the predominant crop, and farmers
generally grow two crops if water is available. Only about 2% of the irrigated area is planted to
other crops, primarily due to marketing constraints. Insufficient water delivery, particularly in the
dry season, remains a problem in many systems. The wet season crop in some locations suffers
from inadequate drainage and, as a result, yields and quality are depressed. Without the project,
some of the irrigated fields could revert to rainfed farming with adverse effects on production and
farm income.



- 29 -
5.2   Future Cropping Patterns and Intensity. With the project, paddy would continue to be the
predominant crop and the cropping intensity is expected to increase to about 171% by project
completion from 133% at present in the 14 systems selected for improvement (Table 5.1).
Specifically, wet season cropping intensity would increase to 87% from 68% and dry season
intensity to 84% from 65%. The basis for calculation of incremental irrigated areas is detailed at
Annex 15 and Annex 19. A significant part of the incremental irrigated area would be generated
through improvement of the drainage system, as shown below:
Wet Season Dry Season
Approximate Proportion of Incremental Area from:
(a)   Improvement of Drainage System                         40%         35%
(b)   Improvement of Irrigation System                       35%         40%
(c)   Improvement and Construction of New Check Structureson  20%         15%
Drains
(d)   Diversion of Water from Adjacent Streams                5%          10%
Without the project, the present irrigated cropping intensity is assumed to continue, although this
is a conservative assumption, since irrigated cropping intensity is likely to decline due to
continued system deterioration.
5.3   Yields and Production. Data for the 14 systems selected for improvement indicate that the
present average palay yields are 2.72 t/ha for rainfed farms, 4.23 t/ha in irrigated wet season, and
4.55 t/ha in irrigated dry season. These irrigated yields are lower than the yield potential with
good irrigation and drainage services, improved farm management, adequate agricultural support
services and optimal input use. Crop yields could gradually increase due to normal trends in
agricultural development with improved seeds, more efficient use of inputs, and improved crop
practices. While yield increases are likely to be higher with improved irrigation under the project,
no such increases have been assumed and the project incremental benefits have been estimated
conservatively on the basis of increased cropping intensities only, except for areas to be converted
from rainfed to irrigated, for which the differential in yields between irrigated and rainfed was
used for the analysis. With the above assumption, the incremental rice production due to the
project would be about 100,000 tons p.a. (65% conversion from paddy) at full development in the
year 2003.
5.4   Rice Supply and Demand. Rice demand in the country is projected to grow to about 8.8-
9.0 million tons by the year 2003 or about 25% over the 1995 level of 7.2 million tons. Rice
supply projections, based on assumptions briefly discussed below, suggest that the Philippines
would not be able to meet the rapidly increasing demand for rice with domestic production alone
over the next decade and would have to resort to increasing imports (0.75 - 1.25 million tons) to



- 30 -
cover the balance. 1 During the past two decades, growth in rice production has mainly come
from yield increases, as planted area (3.3 m ha) has largely remained the same since the late
1960s. Three factors have accounted for these increases: the widespread adoption of high yielding
varieties (HYVs), increased use of fertilizers, and the relatively rapid expansion of irrigated area.
The share of irrigated area in total harvested area rose from 33% in the mid-60s to 60% by 1995.
As most paddy farmers have already adopted the HYVs and, on average, are already using as
much chemical nutrient as is economically optimal under the prevailing (inadequate) level of
irrigation and drainage services, most future growth in palay (paddy) production would have to
come either from expansion of irrigated area or from new technological breakthroughs in the area
of HYVs. Since the latter is uncertain, at least in the medium term, and the former is limited to a
significant extent by the Government's financial capacity, rice production is not projected to
exceed demand by the year 2003, the full development year for the project.
Table 5.1: Crop Area, Yields, Paddy Production And Cropping Intensities (C.I.)
Present/Future Without Proiect           Future With Project
Crop
Crop Area    Yield   Production          Area      Yield   Production
('000 ha)    (tfha)    ('000 ton)   ('000 ha)     (t1ha)    ('000 ton)
Crop Area (ha) aI
Wet Season (WS) Irri.   73.85      4.23     312.39          95.70       4.23     404.81
Dry Season (DS) Irri.   71.33      4.55     324.55          92.00       4.55     418.60
Rainfed (WS)            11.79      2.72      32.07
Total                  156.97      --       669.01         187.7       --        823.41
Service Area (ha)     109,470                              109,470
WS-Irr. C.I. (%/6)      68                                                        87
DS-Irr. C.I. (%/6)      65                                                        84
Annual Irr. C.I.(%)    133                                                       171
1' For 14 systems to be improved. However, incremental area estimates for two second-year systems (Jalaur and
AMRIS) are tentative.
Prices and Markets
5.5    The average farmgate prices for paddy in the Philippines in 1995 ranged from P 6.0 to 7.0
per kg (US$230 - 270 per ton), which were higher than the world market prices adjusted for
quality, transportation and processing costs, and reasonable marketing margins (Annex 16). This
was due to quantitative restrictions on rice imports into the country despite an increasing demand.
Incremental production of rice under the project is small relative to incremental rice demand
(para. 5.6). Consequently, the project would not have an impact on domestic or intemational
prices.
I   The World Bank, Philippines: Irrigated Agriculture Sector Review Report No. 9848-PH, April 15, 1992.



- 31 -
5.6   The market for rice in the Philippines is estimated to grow at about 2.6% p.a. during the
next ten years. This is based on the latest estimates of population growth of 2.3% p.a., income per
capita growth of 3% p.a., and an income elasticity of 0.1. Based on an estimated rice demand in
1995 of about 7.2 million tons, the total demand in the year 2003 would be about 8.8-9.0 million
tons and imports 0.75 - 1.25 million tons (para.5.4). The project incremental output of 100,000
tons would be only about 6% of the incremental domestic rice demand and about 1% of the total
domestic rice demand in the year 2003 and would, therefore, be easily absorbed by the market.
6.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Project Benefits
6.1   The project would help improve water resources planning, development and management
in the country through policy and institutional reforms, and formulation of water management and
watershed protection and rehabilitation plans and programs; contribute to the government goals
of poverty alleviation, balanced regional development, and food security; improve watershed
management; provide for environmental improvement in irrigated areas; strengthen NIA's
capacity to deliver efficient irrigation services; and increase participation of beneficiaries in
watershed management and in the planning, implementation and O&M of irrigation services, thus
facilitating sustainable natural resource management. The annual incremental irrigated rice
production of 100,000 tons due to the project would result in foreign exchange savings of about
US$30.0 million in current prices by the year 2003. The project would also have several non-
quantified benefits including: (i) additional income generation through on-farm and off-farm
activities; (ii) better and timely farm operations due to improved drainage, leading to increased
yields; (iii) improved public health from control of schistosomiasis; and (iv) environmental benefits
from the reduction of siltation and promotion of sustainable farming practices.
6.2   Impact on Rural Poverty. Persistent widespread rural poverty is the most disappointing
aspect of past economic performance in the country. Over two-thirds of all poor households live
in rural areas, where both the incidence and the severity of poverty remain high. The incomes of
more than half of all rural households fall below the 1995 official rural poverty line of P 8,000
(US$310) per capita. The number of poor rural households has increased from 2.3 million in the
early 1960s to over 3.5 million by 1995; real wages have fallen; and landlessness has grown
steadily. Several factors were responsible for this phenomenon: a continuing high population
growth rate (currently 2.3% p.a.), an increasing scarcity of land, inadequate growth of the
agriculture sector itself, and a failure of the economy as a whole to provide sufficient employment
opportunities outside agriculture. Some 85% of total farmholdings (2.35 million) are less than 5
ha. The average size of rice farms is only 2.7 ha. A survey done by NIA shows that most of the
farmers on national irrigation systems are smallholders. Although the extent of poverty of rice
farmers (particularly irrigated rice farmers) is lower than that of some other farmers, rice farmers
account for the largest number of rural poor families due to their preponderance among all
farmers.
6.3   The project would contribute to alleviation of rural poverty (estimated at 53% in 1995) by
directly increasing the productivity and incomes of about 20,000 families or 120,000 persons on



- 32 -
about 21,900 ha incremental area in the wet season and about 20,600 ha in the dry season to be
irrigated under the project. Indirectly, an additional 25,000 small farmers would benefit from sub-
components for repairs to major irrigation structures and schistosomiasis control. A significant
number of farmers would also benefit from investments in watersheds; the precise number would
be known in the second project year after the watersheds to be improved under the project are
selected. Although the irrigation component of the project would provide significant income
increases for the beneficiaries, the farm budget analysis (para. 6.4 and Annex 17) shows that on
the average, the incremental income from the irrigated areas under the project would be sufficient
to pull only rice owner-operators having more than 2 ha out of poverty; those having 2 ha or less
and lessees and share-tenants would have farm incomes below the poverty level and would have
to continue to depend on off-farm incomes to get out of poverty. The project would also alleviate
rural poverty by generating employment opportunities during implementation and thereafter
through on-farm and related off-farm activities. The incremental on-farm direct employment as a
result of the incremental irrigated area under the project is estimated at about 2.5 million
person-days p.a. (equivalent to about 10,000 jobs @ 250 person-days p.a.) at full development. In
addition, substantial new rural employment would be created through project civil works, and
watershed management and erosion control activities. A gender analysis shows that there are no
significant constraints on the project benefits accruing to women, considering the high degree of
gender equity in the country and the joint decision-making at the household level (para. 2.19).
Financial Analysis
6.4   Farmers' Incomes. To determine the impact of the project on the individual farmer,
detailed financial analysis of crop and farm budgets and typical farm models was undertaken.
Seasonal crop budgets were prepared for palay only, the dominant crop in the project area. Annex
17, Tables 1-3 present a summary of farm budget analyses for 9 indicative farm models based on
farm size of 1 ha, 2 ha and 3 ha and type of tenure (owner-operator, lessee and share tenant). For
1-ha farms, the future income at full project development would be Peso 20,900 for owner-
operators, Peso 10,600 for lessees, and Peso 10,450 for share tenants. From the results of the
farm models and assuming that two-thirds of the household income is derived from farm activities
and the rest from off-farm work, it appears that all farmers holding 1 ha would still receive total
yearly incomes below the 1995 official poverty line for rural areas of P 48,216 p.a. for a family of
six, or about US$310 per capita. However, the project would significantly raise farm incomes of
all farmers--owner-operators, lessees, or tenants--as the minimum increase due to the project
would be 30% over the current farm income, and the maximum could be over 100% for those
beneficiaries whose lands are currently water logged in the wet season and would be drained
under the project, making an irrigated wet season rice crop possible.
6.5   Beneficiaries' Capacity to Pay. An analysis of rent and cost recovery for the project was
undertaken, taking into account payment of ISF by the beneficiaries, land taxes (average P 150/ha
p.a. for irrigated and P100/ha for rainfed land), and indirect taxes on farm inputs amounting to
about P 160 per ton of paddy. Rent recovery indices were constructed for different farm sizes and
land tenure. The rent recovery for project beneficiaries ranges from a low of 28% for a 3-ha
owner-operator to a high of 72% for a 1-ha share-tenant. The average rent recovery is 33%. Rent
recovery is expected to increase further since, after the passage of the Local Government Code in
1992, the municipal and city councils have been contemplating an increase in land taxes. Based on



- 33 -
the present value (at a discount rate of 10%) of incremental investment and annual O&M costs of
the irrigation component, and incremental irrigation-related charges, the cost recovery is about
47%. Details are at Annex 18, Tables 1-3. The analysis shows that there is little scope for fuirther
cost recovery as most of the farmers earn incomes way below the critical consumption level of
about P14,625 per capita at full development. Both rent and cost recovery under the project
would be high in comparison to the level usually achieved in projects of this nature in other
developing countries.
6.6   NIA's Financial Situation. As NIA does not have to repay the investment costs of its
projects (para. 1.10), the issue of NIA's financial viability is mainly that of its capacity to meet the
O&M expenses of the national irrigation systems. The O&M costs of NIS, including 15%
overheads, were about Peso 525 million in 1995 (about 60%  of NIA's total recurrent
expenditures, excluding depreciation, of Peso 873 million). Since ISF collections at presenit are
inadequate to meet the total O&M expenses (para. 1.10), NIA's other incomes such as
management fees, equipment rentals, etc., are used to cover a part of O&M expenses. Detailed
projections at Annex 7 include these other incomes which are linked to the investment budget.
The total investment budget for NIA was about P2.6 billion in 1994 and P3.6 billion in 1995. The
projected investment budget in Annex 7, Tables 6-10, assumes a low case of P3.0 billion p.a. and
a high case of P4.0 billion p.a., along with low and high cases of ISF collection efficiency (I-or all
existing NIS) of 70% and 75%, respectively. The assumption is also made that NIA would be able
to secure the funding to implement its streamlining program and reduce staff from 6,942 in 1995
to 5,514 by 1998 (the staff strength would gradually increase again to 5,564 by the year 2004).
With these assumptions, projections of revenue and expenditures have been made at AmnLex 7,
Tables 6-10. The revenue and expenditure projections show that in the conservative scenario of
P3.0 billion p.a. investment level and 70% ISF collection efficiency, NIA's net revenue before
non-cash charges would be positive only in year 2001. In the more plausible scenario of P4.0
billion investment level and 70% ISF collection efficiency, the net revenue before non-cash
charges would turn positive in 1997, be slightly negative in 1998, and be positive again from 1999
onwards (Annex 7, Table 9). An increase in irrigation investment is likely, given the Govermnent's
emphasis on infrastructural improvements and the funding level envisaged for irrigation under the
Medium-Term Public Investment Plan (1993-98). This would help NIA to a certain extent
through increases in management fees. But the main solution would be an increase in ISF
collections. Under the project, NIA would make all efforts to achieve a target of 75%o ISF
collection efficiency in the 14 NIS selected for improvement. These NIS would then serve as
valuable demonstration models for other NIS in cost recovery and user management.
6.7   Projection of O&M cashflow (Annex 7, Table 12) was undertaken on the basis of a very
conservative 67% ISF collection efficiency (the IOSP II financing of incremental O&M is based
on this figure). The projection also takes into account NIA's other income and savings through
turnover of ditch tender sections to the lAs. With a 67% ISF collection efficiency, NIA would be
able to meet all the O&M expenses of national irrigation systems through ISF and other incc:nme in
1997. However, ISF collection alone would meet the total O&M expenses only in 1998.
6.8   Impact on the Budget. As the shortage of Government counterpart funds has been a major
issue in project implementation in the Philippines in recent years, the design and scope of the
project were adjusted to minimize the burden on the Government. Although the project would



- 34 -
result in a net increase in the government's budgetary burden for five years, this is unavoidable
since NIA cannot recover all of its investment costs for reasons explained in para. 6.5, and
recovery of investments in watershed management would also be extremely difficult due to the
general absolute poverty of farmers cultivating portions of watersheds. However, the project
would help reduce the overall budgetary burden of the Govemment, which is currently financing
even part of the O&M costs of the NIS. By accelerating the process of complete tumover of the
smaller systems and O&M of the laterals and sub-laterals of larger systems to the Irrigators'
Associations, the project would reduce NIA's O&M costs and relieve the Government from the
burden of meeting part of these costs. Average annual project cost for the components to be
implemented by NIA would be only about 10% of NIA's total annual investment budget in 1995
and 1996. The increase in NWRB's budget of PIO million p.a. as a result of the project
(principally due to incremental staffing in three proposed Regional offices) would be negligible as
a proportion of the overall Govemment budget (although significant compared to NWRB's
current budget of about P 20 million p.a.) and should be easily affordable. The average annual
investment of about Peso 100 million in improved watershed management by DENR under the
project would be only 4% of its annual budget in 1995 and 1996 (excluding personnel services).
Economic Analysis
6.9   The design altematives considered for the project are discussed in detail in para. 2.2 and
Annex 4. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is estimated at about 27% and the net
present value (NPV) at a discount rate of 10% at US$54.7 million. The economic analysis is
based on the costs and benefits of improvements on 12 of the 14 systems selected for
improvement (for which reasonably firm estimates are available), and costs and benefits of repairs
to irrigation structures in eight systems. The full IA development costs were also included in the
calculations. The total costs of the above account for about 56% of project base costs and
physical contingencies. All costs and benefits were in constant 1995 prices. All benefits and costs
were adjusted to reflect the prevailing relative economic scarcities of factors of production in the
Philippines according to the following assumptions: (a) for the economic cost of unskilled labor, a
specific conversion factor of 0.6 was applied to the market wage rate; (b) imported components
were valued at their border price, using the official exchange rate of US$1= P 26.0; and prices of
non-traded goods and services were adjusted to border prices using a standard conversion factor
of 0.83; (c) O&M costs were converted to economic costs using a specific conversion factor of
0.78; and (d) present and projected farmgate prices for traded goods, namely rice and fertilizers,
were derived from the Bank's October/November 1995 commodity price forecasts; for rice, Thai
5% broken rice was used as the reference, adjusted for quality, freight, insurance, port handling,
local transport, and processing costs and trading margins (Annex 16). These projections indicate
that world prices of Thai 5% broken rice would fall from US$320 per ton in 1995 to US$277 in
2000 and further to US$274 in 2005 (in constant 1995 terms).
6.10 Individual component ERRs were also calculated. The ERRs of 12 NIS selected for
system improvement average about 26%, ranging from 13% to 67%. With respect to the
additional eight NIS, whose major structures require repairs, analysis indicates an average ERR of
29%, ranging from 16% to 58%. For economic analysis, the benefit assumed for the system
improvement component was the increase in the irrigated cropping intensity (Table 5.1). For
major repairs, the benefits would either be the savings in future repairs, or savings in O&M, or



- 35 -
prevention of loss of irrigated areas and/or expansion of irrigated area or a combination of these.
The key assumption is that without the project repairs would be delayed by five years. A shorter
delay would substantially increase the ERRs.
6.11   Sensitivity tests on the project NPV and ERR were carried out against various risks (para
6.14). The factors mentioned in para. 6.14 could result in increased costs and/or decreases and
delays in benefits. Attractive economic returns would accrue even with substantial negative
changes in these variables. The main impact of insufficient and/or delayed counterpart funding
would be delays in both costs and benefits, and could possibly lead to both increased costs and
decreased benefits. A capital cost increase of 20% would reduce the ERR to 23%. A 20% decline
in incremental benefits would reduce the ERR to 21%; a three-year delay in benefits would result
in an ERR of 14%; and a combination of a capital cost increase of 10% and a one-year delay in
incremental benefits would lower the ERR to 17%. The main institutional risk is that of non-
cooperation of IAs (para 6.14). The non-cooperation could reduce the irrigated area in the dry
season, which depends largely on improved water use efficiency (unlike the wet season where
irrigated area would increase largely due to drainage improvements). However, even with a 500/o
lower incremental irrigated area in the dry season, the ERR is still about 20%. Switching values
were also computed and show the project to be economically viable. Details of the assumptions
behind the economic analysis and the results of the base case and sensitivity analysis are at Annex
19.
Environmental Impact
6.12 The project has been assigned category B since the project's physical works would mainly
include improvement of existing NIS, and no major new earth movement, water regulation or
storage, or deforestation, and, therefore, no major environmental risks are involved. On the
contrary, the project would have important environmental benefits arising from the following: (a)
the project would help formulate a national water resources management plan and a watershed
management strategy and investment program, strengthen the regulatory role of national agencies,
and develop NIA's capacity for environmental monitoring of irrigated areas; (b) the project would
help control schistosomiasis in and around three irrigation systems; (c) the project would include
investments in improved watershed management, and provision for vegetative erosion prevention
measures for micro-catchments in the vicinity of irrigation systems; and (d) by raising incomes and
creating employment in the rural lowlands, the project would contribute to stemming the
increasing out-migration of poor farmers from these rural areas to uplands and coastal areas,
where such migration has caused serious environmental problems -- forest and other resource
depletion and erosion in the uplands, and degradation of nearshore fisheries -- thereby providing
indirect but important environmental benefits. Extension advice by the Department of Agriculture
for fertilizer and agro-chemical application in the irrigated areas is based on the guidelines of the
Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority, which are acceptable to the Bank, and only relatively small
incremental amounts of agro-chemicals would be used as a result of the project (although not
financed by the project). For some irrigation systems included for improvement under the project,
drainage (with schistosomiasis control as a major indirect benefit) and link canal works would be
involved, necessitating acquisition of land and/or other property. However, since the farmers
involved would also be beneficiaries under the project, and the required acquisition of land and/or
other property and the amount of compensation are small, no problems are foreseen. Moreover,



- 36 -
the program of works for the improvement of the 14 NIS under the project was prepared by NIA
only after fully consulting the farmers and lAs, who are aware of the need for land acquisition for
project works, and have already signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with NMA for
participation in the implementation of improvement works, including contribution to costs (a total
of 251 lAs participated in the process of consultation and signing of MOUs, representing about
44,000 members out of about 55,000 farmer beneficiaries in the 14 NIS). In any case,
arrangements for compensation acceptable to the Bank would be implemented prior to
commencement of new drainage and link canal works (para. 2.10).
6.13  With respect to water-borne diseases prevalent in some locations in the Philippines,
successful programs to reduce the incidence of schistosomiasis and malaria through drainage,
chemical controls, health education and curative medicine have been financed by previous
Bank-supported projects. The project would improve drainage, reduce water logging, and
promote the development of some otherwise unused portions of land, thereby contributing further
to reducing such diseases.
Risks
6.14  The magnitude of risks varies for different project components: (a) For the water
resources and watershed management components, the risks are negligible since the components
mainly include studies and procurement of equipment, and the amounts involved are well within
the Government's financing capability. Concessional cofinancing (in addition to the grant already
confirmed by DANIDA) may also be available for the studies under these components. (b) Risks
are also negligible for the environmental improvement component, which has a small financing
requirement, and whose main sub-component, schistosomiasis control, would be implemented by
an experienced agency, the DOH. (c) For the systems improvement and repair component, the
technical risks (design and construction quality) are relatively minor, and would be further
reduced during implementation through intensive supervision. However, there are significant
financial and institutional risks relating to the system improvement sub-component. Based on the
past experience with the Bank-supported projects in the Philippines, the main financial risk is
inadequate and delayed fund releases by the Government, which could delay implementation. To
resolve this long-standing problem, the Bank recently completed a Public Expenditure Review,
which has resulted in agreements with the Government on adequate and timely funding of priority
public investments. Moreover, the Government's Medium-Term Public Investment Plan (MTPIP)
for 1993-98 envisages near doubling of budgetary allocations to NIA over the remaining years of
the plan compared to the 1994 level. The 1995 and 1996 allocations, which are already much
higher than the 1994 allocation, demonstrate the Government's commitment to the MTPIP. If this
trend continues, counterpart funding should cease to be a major problem. The institutional risk
is the most significant for the systems improvement sub-component, since the increase in irrigated
area targeted under the sub-component cannot be fully realized without the cooperation and
discipline of the IA members. Lack of full cooperation of the IA members could also undermine
NIA's efforts to improve the ISF collection and meet an increasingly larger part of O&M
expenses of NIS, thus improving its own financial viability (paras. 6.6-6.7). The participatory
process adopted for the formulation of the systems improvement sub-component and to be
adopted for its implementation (paras. 2.9-2.10), the agreement with the lAs already obtained for
management turnover of systems after improvement, and the support to be provided to the IAs



- 37 -
under the institutional strengthening component, are all expected to minimize the risk of non-
cooperation of the lAs, but intensive supervision of this part of the project would still be
necessary during implementation. A further institutional risk is the likely resistance of NIA staff to
tumover of irrigation systems to the lAs for fear of losing their job. To minimize this risk, it
would be necessary for NIA to formulate a policy to protect the involved staff (para 2.17).
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a)   Government would hold annual consultations with the Bank on the progress in
establishing a comprehensive institutional and policy framework for water
resources management in the country in accordance with the action plan
formulated as part of project preparation (para. 2.7);
(b)   Government would ensure that all dams and reservoirs supplying water to the
irrigation systems under the project would be maintained and inspected
periodically in accordance with sound engineering practice, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.11);
(c)   NIA would formulate an equipment management policy, and, by the end of 1997,
furnish it to the Bank for comments (para. 2.15(c));
(d)   NIA would implement an institutional development program (IDP) for the IAs,
and, in this regard, would: (i) by the end of 1997, identify IDOs in Regional offices
and transfer them to the field; identify and train WRFTs to work as IDOs; and
provide revised job descriptions to all staff involved in the IDP (WRFTs, IDOs and
Senior IDOs) before they undertake their new duties; (ii) by June 30, 1997,
formulate a policy to protect the staff involved in systems to be completely tumed
over to the lAs, and fumish it to the Bank for comments; (iii) by June 30, 1997,
enter into a revised MOA with the lAs providing for direct billing for ISF payment
in systems improved and tumed over to the lAs under the project and IOSP II; (iv)
pilot test volumetric pricing on at least one lateral of a NIS, in consultation with
the Bank, by the end of 1999; and (v) establish system management committees,
with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, in all systems
which are being improved under the IOSP II by June 30, 1997, and, if the results
are deemed positive in consultation with the Bank, in all systems to be improved
under this project by the end of 1998 (paras. 2.16-2.18);
(e)   NIA would establish an Environment Unit or Division by June 30, 1997, with
functions and responsibilities defined in consultation with the Bank (para. 2.23);
(f)   NIA would submit to the Bank for review detailed program of works, engineering
data, cost estimates, plan for the acquisition of land and other property and
compensation therefor, implementation arrangements, and expected funding in



- 38 -
respect of project activities for each year by June 30 of the preceding year (para.
4. 1); and
(g)   Government, through the NWRB, would assign to the BRS, MGB and EMB the
formal responsibility for maintaining national networks for streamflow, ground
water and water quality data collection, respectively, and NWRB would establish a
National Water Resources Data Coordination Center, with functions and
responsibilities defined in consultation with the Bank, by June 30, 1997 (para.
4.2(a)).
7.2   The following would be the conditions of disbursement of the Bank loan for specific sub-
components:
(a)   for investments in the selected critical watersheds, DENR would provide a list of
such watersheds to the Bank for its concurrence (para. 2.8);
(b)   for works on any NIS selected for improvement, NIA would prepare, in
consultation with project beneficiaries, and forward to the Bank, an Irrigation
System Improvement Plan for each system, justifying proposed system
improvements (para. 2.9);
(c)   for works on any NIS selected for improvement, which require acquisition of land
and other property, NIA would undertake such acquisition, compensation therefor,
and resettlement, in accordance with the Policy Framework for Resettlement, and,
where a resettlement action plan is required under the Policy Framework, prepare
such a plan acceptable to the Bank, and complete the implementation of the plan in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2. 10); and
(d)   for the schistosomiasis control sub-component, a MOA between NIA and DOH,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be executed (para. 4.4).
7.3   Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan
of US$58.0 million to the Republic of the Philippines at the standard LIBOR-based interest rate
for US dollar single currency loans, with a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five years.



- 39 -                                Annex I
Page I of 14
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Resources Manaeement Component
Background and Government Response to Water Issues
1.    The country is facing an increasing water resources management challenge, recently
termed a "crisis" in a number of official documents and public statements by the Government--
including the 1995 "Water Crisis Act"; NEDA resolutions on water supply and sanitation, and
the draft "Irrigation Crisis Act". On the surface, the main concerns are recurrent water supply
shortages and increasing conflicts in water allocation among users; severe water pollution near
urban centers; and a noticeable degradation of watersheds, which have damaged the health of
populations (especially the poor) and aquatic life. However, at the core of the problem is the
absence of an adequate framework to guide water resources development, protection and efficient
use; weak institutional capacities for regulating and coordinating activities across subsectors; and
inadequate investments in water infrastructure that have lagged behind levels needed to keep up
with increasing demand.
2.    The government is conscious of the urgent need to address the water issue. A significant
recent response was the 1994 "National Water Summit", opened by the President and attended
by top level officials from all subsectors. The Summit concluded an urgent need for a sector
approach to an integration and coordination of all water related efforts towards a more focused
approach to water resources management. As a result of the summit, the former Cluster G was
reconstituted into a Water Management Cluster, which serves as the advisory committee to the
President and the Cabinet on matters related to the water resources sector. The Cluster provides
a focal point at high policy making level for discussion of water policy issues. The 1995 "Water
Crisis Act" created a Joint Executive-Legislative Water Crisis Commission for implementation of
the Act and for recommending actions to be taken by the President. The above illustrates the
urgency given to the water issues by the public and the government.
3.    The above urgency provides a window of opportunity for adopting reforms in the water
sector. The Water Summit and a recent Water Supply Sector Review by the World Bank reached
a consensus on the need for strengthening of institutional mechanisms for closer coordination
among water related agencies. NEDA passed a resolution to carry out a phased upgrading of the
key coordinating and regulatory body-- the National Water Resources Board (NWRB)--to
become an effective national water resources management agency. A technical assistance (TA)
program, supported by a Japanese grant, was executed by the Bank in July-December 1995 to
assess water related legal and regulatory systems and the functions of NWRB. The TA
formulated an action plan to address water management issues at national, regional and basin



- 40-                               Annex 1
Page 2 of 14
levels, and to strengthen the NWRB capacity to carry out its policy implementation and
coordination functions (details in para. 24).
4.    At the Government's request, the World Bank also assembled a "quick response" team in
September 1995 to assist the government in formulation of a time-bound strategy to implement
the Water Crisis Act. Representatives from the main government agencies dealing with water,
together with the team, came up with a ten-point action plan, among which is the strengthening of
overall water resources management and regulation at national and regional levels, and adoption
of a river basin development approach. The thrust of the action plan and the recommendations
from the TA have been fed into preparation of the WRDP project component for water resources
management (details in para. 27 onwards).
Pressing Water Quantity and Quality Issues
5 .    Political demarcations, as well as hydrological, physical and climatic homogeneity, permit
a classification of the country into 12 regions. There are 6 river basins in the country with
catchment areas that are greater than 5,000 km2-Cagayan, Mindanao, Agusan, Pampanga, Agno
and Abra. As the tropical climate dominates, the average annual rainfall is plentiful, amounting to
2,360 mm. This generates about 322 bcm of dependable flows' The safe groundwater yield is
estimated to be 52 bcm. Thus, total water availability is about 374 bcm. To put this figure in
perspective, the current demand for water is between 100-110 bcm, less than one-third of the
renewable water available nationally. However, due to extreme unevenness in the distribution of
water during the year, most of the water flows to the sea during the wet season. The driest month
often receives only 1-2% of annual runoff. The El Nifto phenomenon adds another dimension to
droughts. Flooding in the rainy season and water stresses during the dry season have constrained
socio-economic activities (para. 10).
6.    Despite abundant rainfall and the expansion of water infrastructure over several decades,
the country has reached a stage where the scarcity of water resources of adequate quality has
emerged as a pressing issue. In the dry season, the water supply can no longer meet demand from
all subsectors. However, the problem is not the lack of water per se (para.5). It results from
supply-demand mismatches caused by inadequate water infrastructure to regulate flood flows and
store water in the rainy season when water is abundant for consumption in the dry season. The
problem is compounded by weaknesses in the management of the system and inefficiencies in the
use of water (para. 21).
7.    Water shortages are exacerbated by an alarming deterioration of water quality in streams
and aquifers, especially near urban centers. There have been increasing public complaints about
fish killings, stench, streams with little aquatic life, and a high incidence of polluted water-related
health problems among the local population. In searching for better quality of water and more
stable supplies, urban users have been driven to massively pump groundwater. Groundwater
According to the World Resources Institute, 1994-95.



- 41 -                                Annex 1
Page 3 of 14
depletion and saline intrusion have occurred, e.g. in Metro Manila, Cebu, and Bulacan2. Even
groundwater quality has deteriorated so badly in some areas that households have to invest
heavily in water filtering devices for drinking purposes. The degradation of watersheds has
changed hydrological and topographical conditions, which have caused higher flood peaks,
reduced the storage capacity of the water infrastructure, and dried-up wells and streams.
8.    While the current focus is on the crisis caused by water shortages, floods in the rainy
season are still a major cause of natural damage to economic activities and human life. Flood
control needs continued and enhanced government support.
The Water Resources Sector and Its Subsectors
9.    The significance of the water sector in the economy can be gauged partly by public
expenditures. During 1987-90, the total public investment in major water subsectors accounted
for 22% of total public infrastructure spending. The term "water resources sector" includes
subsectoral activities in flood control, drainage, irrigation, urban and rural water supply,
hydropower, fishery, protection of aquatic life, and navigation. It also includes intersectoral
activities such as coordination, water allocation and planning, river basin management, and
operations of multipurpose schemes, as well as the collection of the related hydrological,
environmental and socio-economic data. There are over 20 agencies and ten government
departments dealing with water resources activities. Each agency is responsible for a specific
activity in a subsector.
10.   Flood Control Subsector. Because of the monsoon climate and frequent tropical cyclones,
which occur 20 times a year on average and produce destructive seasonal floods, the country has
invested heavily in flood control over the years. But flooding is still a major natural cause of
socio-economic losses. Flood prone areas in the Philippines are estimated at over one million ha--
40% in Central Luzon, the rest in the flood plains of Cotabato, Cagayan and Agusan. Flood
protection deserves high priority. About 10% of the flood prone area is heavily populated.
Flooding in the low-lying lands of Metro Manila and the Laguna Lake region threatens some 8-10
million people. The chief objective in this subsector is to provide adequate flood protection and
drainage facilities to the flood prone areas. More than 1000 km of earth dikes have been built.
However, the degree of protection has not yet been assessed accurately. The degradation of
watersheds has affected the effectiveness of the water infrastructure, and accounts for an
increased number of flash floods and higher flood peaks. Urbanization and population growth
have also reduced the wetland storage areas that can be used for flood water detention.
11.   Irrigation and Drainage. Irrigation is the biggest water user, accounting for 85% of water
demand in the Philippines. The country's irrigable land potential is 3.3 million ha (although
irrigation of the entire area may not be economically viable). About 1.5 m ha (50%) is now
irrigated, of which about 43% is covered by the national irrigation systems, 47% by communal
systems, and 10% by pump lift systems. Paddy production yields average 4 ton/ha on irrigated
2For instance, the shallow aquifer near Makati area of Metro Manila used to be 6 m deep in the 1960s. It is now
over 300 400 m deep, due to pumping and insufficient recharge.



- 42 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 14
land. NIA's plan to expand the irrigation command area is severely constrained by the availability
of funds. Due to likely reduction in prime agricultural land by the expansion of urban areas,
inability to develop the water infrastructure in a timely manner due to limited fund, and decreasing
water availability due to the degradation of watersheds and droughts, more efficient water use will
be required in this subsector. This could be achieved through the rehabilitation of the existing
irrigation system and by decentralizing management responsibilities to beneficiaries and local
communities. NIA is the lead agency for developing and maintaining the national irrigation
system. Community irrigation systems (CIS) receive NIA assistance during the design, funding
and construction phases, after which the systems are turned over to individual communities for
operation and maintenance with well established cost recovery policies. A major recent policy
change has been the Local Government Code, which transfers development of CIS to the local
government units (LGUs). However, LGUs need much improved capacities to implement the
new policy.
12.   Municipal. Industrial and Rural Water Supply. Industries and domestic uses account for
10% and 5% of the total water demand, respectively. As of 1992, about 76% of the population
of 65 million had access to public water supply systems; 62% of Metro Manila's population of 13
million had access to supplies from the MWSS; 67% of the urban population of 20 million outside
Metro Manila got access through LWUA; and 84% of the rural population of 32 million got
access through DPWH. The remaining population relies on rain collection, dug wells, and ponds
for domestic use. Crisis-level shortages of water supply have become a major concern of the
government and general public.  The main factors are declining water supplies due to a
degradation of watersheds; competition from other sectors that require increasing quantities of
water; the insufficient capacity of the system to satisfy demand3; and outdated and inefficient
delivery infrastructure, which causes water losses as large as 60%, and low pressure in the water
pipes. The government's target is to achieve 100% coverage by 2000 (which is estimated to cost
US$2-3 billion). The infrastructure for waste water disposal infrastructure lags far behind the
provision of water supply. Only 7% of population in Metro Manila is covered by sewerage
facilities, and less than 2% in other areas. Urgent actions are needed to address this problem. In
the short and medium term, there is need for major rehabilitation of the network. Future
strategies would require searching for new sources of water supply, improving the efficiency of
delivery, higher cost recovery, better regulatory control, and increased participation by the private
sector.
13.   Hydropower.  Although water use for hydropower generation is a non-consumptive
instream use of the resource, there is need for regular water releases that are determined by the
operating parameters related to meeting power demands. The installed hydropower generation
capacity in the country totals 2260 MW, about 60% in Luzon alone. Nearly 85% (or 12,000
MW) of the total hydropower potential, mostly in Luzon and Mindanao, is still undeveloped.
Hydropower now constitutes 20% of Philippines' energy production. This share is expected to
drop to 10%, as coal is developed further as a source of energy. NPC is currently responsible for
the development and operation of hydropower schemes, although plans to reorganize existing
3The current supply for Metro Manila is 2,500 million I/day, while the demand reaches 3,400 million l/d.



- 43 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 14
organizational structures and establish new agencies are underway. A major institutional/financial
reform in this sector is the close involvement of the private sector in meeting energy demand, for
example through mechanisms such as BOT.
14.   Aquatic Environment. As a matter of policy in the Philippines, about 10% of river flows is
considered to be a minimum to maintain instream aquatic life, navigation and fishing. This
appears to be a reasonable percentage. However, the aquatic life in the Philippines is threatened
by pollution, habitat changes, increased turbidity, reduction or disruption of water flow,
overfishing, fish poisons, and the introduction of exotic organisms. Water pollution has reached
alarming proportions due to untreated waste discharge. According to DENR, about 10% of all the
rivers in the country are severely polluted. In Metro Manila all the waterways and some aquifers
have been polluted. Fish kills have increased in the Laguna Lake due to industrial wastewater
pollution. The price of untreated discharges of wastewater into the rivers and the uncontrolled
tapping of groundwater sources has been paid by increased morbidity and higher incidences of
water-bome diseases, higher costs of water purification, and the depletion of aquifers. Although
environmental compliance certificates are now required prior to the granting of a water permit,
the monitoring and enforcement of water quality protection remains ineffective.
Overall Water Resources Management -- The National Water Resources Board (NWRB)
15.   Lezal Framework. Water policies are embodied in the Water Code of 1976-the basic
water law of the Philippines. The Code is based on the concept of integrated multipurpose water
management. Together with a set of implementation rules and regulations (IRR), the law
provides a basic framework for water management, defines the rights and obligations of water
users and the protection and regulation of such rights, and identifies administrative agencies for
enforcing the Code. While the water law is generally considered adequate, the major constraint is
a weakness in its implementation and monitoring (para.2 1).
16.   National Water Resources Board. The responsibility for cross-sectoral coordination and
regulation of water resources development and management stays with NWRB. The Board was
created in 1974 (but acquired its current name in 1986) to enforce and administer the water law.
The members of the NWRB consist of the heads of 10 govermment departments most concemed
with water allocation-DPWH, DA, DENR, NEDA, NIA, MWSS, DOT, DOH, LWUA and
NPC, with the Secretary of DPWH as the chair. The Board meets twice a month to resolve issues
related to water development and actual or potential water use conflicts, and is supported by a
pool of full-time technical staff' headed by an Executive Director.
17.   Vested by the Code with broad regulatory and executing power, NWRB serves as an
agent of the State for coordinating, controlling, supervising, and regulating the utilization,
exploitation, and protection of water resources. The key NWRB mandates are to: formulate
general water policies and guidelines; coordinate water resources development activities; issue
water permits; develop comprehensive basin plans; advise NEDA on the approval of water
4NW"B has presently a total number of 129 staff positions, of which 113 are filled, leaving 16 positions vacant.



- 44-                                Annex 1
Page 6 of 14
development plans and programs; undertake basin surveys and assess water resources availability;
and exercise jurisdiction over disputes related to water allocation and utilization. However,
limited by funds and staff, NWRB has been unable to effectively enforce the provisions of the
Water Code and to carry out its mandates.
Major Institutional Constraints in the Water Resources Sector
18.   Fragmented Water Management Responsibilities. The concept of integrated management
of water resources--cross-subsectors, quality and quantity, groundwater and surface water--is yet
to be implemented in the Philippines. Agencies in each subsector have largely independent
strategies for resource development and operations. Although there is little overlap among the
subsector activities, negative extemalities from excessive water withdrawals and discharges have
extended across subsectors, and between the upstream and downstream areas of river basins
(Angat is a well-known example). Unfortunately, mechanisms to deal with them are too
fragmented. Technical inadequacies at NWRB and general institutional weaknesses in the water
sector prevent NWRB from fulfilling either its coordination or regulatory functions (para. 21).
19.   Absence of an Overall Planning Framework to Guide Investment Activities. All
subsectoral plans are submitted directly to NEDA and DBM for inclusion in the national MTPIP.
There are no cross-sectoral water resources plans to integrate effectively the various water and
land use activities, water quality and quantity management, and conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater. Despite clear stipulations in the Water Code, these plans seldom go through prior
NWRB approval. NWRB does not have the guiding strategies, national master plans, updated
basin plans, and adequate staff resources needed to assess such investment plans and grant
approvals.
20.   The formulation of a water resources plan for sustainable water resources management is
needed urgently. The last assessment of water and land resources in the Philippines was
conducted almost 20 years ago, and included basin wide framework plans and 12 regional
studies5. These plans continue to be used for identifying investment opportunities, despite
substantial changes in the environment over the past two decades. Land use activities have
affected flow patterns and the quality of waters in rivers and in coastal zones. Watershed
degradation has modified hydrological conditions. Some data are no longer valid. The earlier
plans seldom considered water quality, which has emerged as an important problem in recent
years. Except for LLDA, there is no river basin authority in the country. Neither are there
disaster (drought, floods) management plans. During emergencies, actions are mostly taken on an
ad hoc basis, accompanied by the announcement of new policies or speedy passage of laws, which
often result in inconsistencies in policies.
21.   Weak Law Enforcement  Law enforcement is weak, reflected in the illegal tapping of
urban and irrigation water by parties who do not hold permits, the exploitation of groundwater
5 By the NWRB . The last land use planning (1978-2000) was carried out in 1978 by the Ministry of Human
Settlements, which was later abolished.



- 45 -
- 45 -                           Annex 1
Page 7 of 14
resources beyond levels permitted, inefficient use of the limited resources available, and
degradation of watersheds. NWRB and EMB under DENR are the two main resources
regulatory agencies for water quantity and quality. Permits from NWRB are required for
groundwater abstractions. Nevertheless, in almost 65% of cases, abstractions take place without
permits, and only 6% of the wells of permit holders have been monitored to check for compliance
with the permits. Some withdrawals are estimated to be 20-60% over the permitted levels. As
NWRB does not have its own field offices, it has to delegate regional and field monitoring to
other agencies. This arrangement has proven to be ineffective and long delays are common.
22.   Deficient Water Resources Data Collection. The main problems in data collection in the
Philippines are inadequate network coverage, outdated monitoring equipment, scattered data
collection responsibilities, lack of continuous data records, and lack of an integrated water
resources database. About 10-15 government departments collect some kind of water related
data, most of which are designed to serve specific projects. Collection is terminated once the
objectives of the projects are served. Data on water quality are collected by a number of agencies
on an ad hoc base. The only agencies committed to long term monitoring are the PAGASA for
climatic data, and BRS for stream flow data. However, the network density is low especially for
stream flow monitoring. Reportedly, monitoring equipment has deteriorated badly or is outdated,
and needs to be rehabilitated. At the national level, a groundwater monitoring network does not
exist, nor is the responsibility for this explicitly established. Standards for establishing and
maintaining monitoring networks vary among the agencies. Access to data is difficult.
23.   NWRB is mandated as the national agency for data coordination, and to maintain a
minimum level of basic water data for fulfilling its coordinating and regulatory functions.
However, NWRB has little power or capacity to implement this mandate. Data are submitted to
NWRB on a goodwill basis by the other agencies which, however, have little incentive to do so.
NWRB cannot conduct reliable water resources planning or make informed decisions on water
allocation and investments due to inadequate information on supply, demand, and land use.
NWRB needs to improve the overall quality of data collection and management in order to assess
the viability of development programs, to appropriate water through an effective permit system,
and to ensure water protection. A solution to the above problems is to improve data management
and dissemination through setting up an electronic network, which will link databases and
automatically screen data and feed into a central station at NWRB. It is evident that, as in some
other countries in the Region, substantial efficiencies can be achieved through the introduction of
such electronic data management capabilities.
Consultants' Report on Institutional Strengthening of NWRB
24.      The main elements recommended in the draft final report of the consultants (para. 3) for
strengthening water resources management in general, and the NWRB in particular, are:
a.    Increasing accountability by clarifying functional responsibilities, notably through the
clear delegation of technical support and regulatory functions to NWRB staff, while
vesting policy-making and adjudication functions in a reformed Governing Board;



- 46 -                                 Annex I
Page8 of 14
b.    Development of NWRB's staff functions and technical capacity in the areas of policy
formulation, data, planning and management, so as to strengthen its ability to
support recommendations to the Governing Board--and GOP generally--on water
resources issues;
c.    Creation of regional offices (initially for Luzon, the Visayas and Mindanao,
respectively) to assume direct responsibility for the regulation of water use, thus
reducing--and ultimately ending --dependence on deputized agents (in the longer-term,
the regional structure will be further expanded and regional offices will assume other
functions e.g. in relation to planning, data etc.);
d.    Strengthening of NWRB's enforcement powers in carrying out its regulatory mandate;
e.    Improving incentives to NWRB  staff through  exemption from  the  Salary
Standardization Law and assistance to NWRB staff in the event that they are charged
with offenses in the performance of their functions (subject, of course, to their being
found innocent); and
f     Strengthening financial sustainability through the creation of a Special Account in the
General Fund to the credit of NWRB, ending the exemption of Government agencies
from payment of water fees and charges, and increasing the levels of charges and fines.
25.      Decisions on some of these proposals can be effected through administrative means (e.g. an
Executive Order of the President, NEDA and NWRB Board Resolutions, amendments to the IRRs of
the 1976 Water Code, clearance by NEDA, DBM, MOF or another obligated agency, approval of
externally-financed projects etc.) but others will require legislation.6 The final report recommends that
this should comprise amendment to PD 424 (1974)--the act that created the forerunner to the NWRB--
rather than the 1976 Water Code. In the longer-term, amendment to the Code may become advisable.
However, the consultants recommend that this be done only after full review of the Code and all
related legislation, and after further studies of several issues of importance, including: (i) the potential
role of river basin authorities (RBAs) in the management of water resources; (ii) NWRB's future role
in economic regulation, taking account of the possible privatization of water districts; and (iii) the
potential of economic incentive (for water use and discharge) and market mechanisms in water
resources management.
26.       The Government is currently reviewing its water resources policies within the context of
the 1995 Water Crisis Act. The Joint Executive-Legislative Water Crisis Commission--set up by the
Act--is expected to submit its report to the President and Congress before the end of 1996, following
which definitive decisions are expected.
6 Full drafts of the recomnmended administrative and legislative measures are provided.



- 47 -                               Annex 1
Page 9 of 14
Objective of the Water Resources Management Component
27.      The objective of the improved water resources management component of WRDP is to
support and complernent the legal, regulatory and administrative reforms to be adopted by GOP for
the furtherance of its water resources policies.
Details of the Sub-Components
28.      The WRDP would finance two main sub-components (i) a water resources management
component, comprising technical assistance for water resources data collection and processing, and
water resources planning; and (ii) an institutional strengthening component, comprising direct support
to NWRB in the form of incremental staff, training, equipment and consultancy services. Besides
NWRB, three other agencies would participate directly in water resources data collection activities: the
Bureau of Research & Standards (BRS), the Mines & Geo-sciences Bureau (MGB) and the
Environmental Management Bureau (EMB). BRS, GMB and EMB are expected to be confirmed by
the Government as having formal responsibility for maintaining the national permanent networks
for streamflow, groundwater and water quality data collection, respectively. Other agencies would
also be expected to cooperate as required in other aspects of the water resources management
component.
Water Resources Management Sub-Component
29.      The water resource management sub-component would comprise three main activities:
a.    Improvement of national data collection networks for streamflow. groundwater and
water quality. Consultants would be recruited to work with NWRB and the three
participating agencies (BRS, MGB and EMB) to improve planning, design and
operations of the three primary data collection networks.  Integrating existing
monitoring networks and related facilities-including those of other government
agencies--and national network establishment (in the case of ground water and water
quality monitoring as such networks do not exist) and improvement (in the case of
streamflow), would identify permanent benchmark stations for which observations
would be made regularly and continuously, and at affordable cost. The consultants
will recommend rationalization of existing streamflow networks; specify new
locations (for three networks) where additional stations should be set up to
improve accuracy of key monitoring points or in anticipation of future
development in the areas; and identify unnecessary stations which should be
discontinued. The project would support preparation of an action plan for a
phased implementation of the recommended plans, and initial rehabilitation or
setting  up of priority  stations in  selected  locations.   The consultants'
recommendations for network rehabilitation and setting up of monitoring stations
would be implemented under subsequent projects. This activity would take 12 months.
Draft TOR and estimated costs for this activity are at Appendix 1. It is anticipated that
additional foreign assistance would be sought to finance implementation of the national



- 48 -
Annex 1
Page 10 of 14
networks once the detailed programs have been prepared and cost estimates are
available.
b.    Design and Establishment of a National Water Information Network (NWN).
Consultants would be recruited to work with NWRB and the seven participating
agencies (BRS, MGB, EMB, LWUA, NIA, NEDA and PAGASA) to: (i) design and
develop a central database at NWRB which would receive, access and integrate
data from major data collection agencies; (ii) design and develop databases of
major data collection agencies; (iii) recommend a phased implementation program
for establishing the NWIN as a PC-based system to link the data bases of
collection agencies and provide easy access to user agencies; and (iv) install and
supervise the initial operations of the NWIN. The NWRB will host a central data
base to which the various agencies will be linked. Draft TOR and estimated costs
for designing the NWIN are at Appendix 2. This activity would take 12 months for
completion.
C.    Formulation of a National Water Resources Plan (NWRP). The NWRP would
provide a framework for the orderly development and management of the nation's
water and related land resources so as to promote economic development and
social equity, and ensure environmental quality and sustainability in the long-term.
It has the specific objective of equipping NWRB with the necessary capability on
which to base recommendations to the Government and NEDA in regard to the
consistency and priority of programs and projects as they affect the water
resources. The preparation of the NWRP is seen as an iterative process designed
to fashion a long-term planning framework compatible with national goals and
objectives and with sound environmental management principles. At each stage of
the study, alternatives would be presented and analyzed for discussion purposes,
with all the important evaluation and decision factors displayed so as to allow an
objective evaluation of the preferred course of action compared to other feasible
alternatives.   The aim will be to develop a flexible planning system capable of
continuous evolution rather than to present a rigid blue print. It is provisionally
estimated that the expatriate and local specialists combined would provide a total
of 176 person-months, and that the study would be completed in a two-year
period at an estimated cost of abut US$2 M. Draft terms of reference and cost
estimates for the study are at Appendix 3.
30.      Institutional Strengthening Sub-Component. This sub-component would comprise support
through incremental staff training, equipment, strategic studies, and local consultancy services.
a.    Incremental Staff and Operating Costs. Table 1 presents estimates of present and future
staff numbers and recurrent costs. NWRB's current staff complement is 113 out of an
approved total of 129. This is expected to increase to 198 as a result of the
implementation of the expansion proposals (a net increase of 85 staff). The increase is
due to the creation of three regional offices, along with the counterpart staff required
for carrying out the above three water resources management activities. In the case of



- 49 -                                  Annex 1
Page 11 of 14
the latter, these are regarded as permanent additions to the staff complement,
responsible for sustaining the programs once they are established. Modest
strengthening of the Water Utilities Division is provided for, together with the filling of
all positions in the Finance and Administration Division. Redeployment of staff of the
Water Permit and the Monitoring and Enforcement Divisions will allow a reduction in
the levels of staff at the head office. Operating costs will rise as a result of the
expansion program. There will, however, be savings from a reduction in the use of
deputized agents. It is difficult to be certain how this will work out in practice and an
arbitrary 25% reduction is provided for, assuming that, while the regional offices will
take over substantial activities, there will also be a significant increase in the total work
load. Further savings will be obtained once additional regional offices are established.
Table 1. NWRB Staffing and Recurrent Costs (in 1000 Peso)
Incre-    Staff Numers      Cost Estimates in 1995 Prices
ment   Present Future    Present      Future  Incremental
Office ofthe Executive Directr    +4        9       13     1,116
of which Legal Seices Unit                 -        4         -
Policy & Pgramns Dept:            +9       25      34      2.988
ofwhich   NWDCC                            -        5         -
NWN                                      11
NWRP                             -        4         -
Water Rights Division             -7       14       7      1,651
Water Utilities Dvision           +6       11      17      1,366
Monitoring & Enforce. Division   -15       23       8      2,469
AdminL & Financial DMvision       +4       31      35      2,692
Regional Offices                 +84                84         -
Total Staff                      +85      113     198    122        17.082       4
Opeaing Expenses                          n.a.     n.a     4,218     5,618       1,400
Total Recunent Cost                      na.       na     16.00         22.700   6.0
b.     Training. Training will play a critical role in support of NWRB's strengthened role
in water resources management. Appropriate agencies for the training of NWRB
and related Government staff would be identified. These may include the National
Hydraulic Research Center (NHRC) and other academic, private and Government
entities.  Together with the selected agencies, training programs would be
developed in the following areas: (i) general courses to update NWRB engineering
staff in water resources data, planning, development and management; (ii)
specialized courses for new recruits to regional offices; (iii) specialized courses for
hydrology technicians; and (iv) specialized courses to be arranged as required for
NWRB lawyers, economists and other professional staff. In addition to local
training, provision is made for an overseas study tour to expose NWRB staff
(along with staff from other participating agencies and NEDA Infrastructure staff)
to experiences in other countries in respect of: (i) management aspects, including
river basin management, and (ii) technical aspects, including water resources
assessment methodologies and data programs. Table 2 summarizes the costs of
the proposed training programs. The overseas study tour cost of US$81,500 in



- 50 -                                  Annex I
Page 12 of 14
Table 2 includes the cost of organizing the tour (about US$10,000) in addition to
the costs to be incurred by the participants.
Table 2. Proposed Training Programs and Estimated Costs
Trainine Course    No. & Length of Course  No. of        Cost pe   Overal Cm
Pafiicits    ptan__
NWRB Engineering    Two 2-week modules   20 per module    P2,500  $4,000
and Planning Staff
Regional Staff     Four four-week      20 per module    P5,000   $16,000
modules
Hydrology Technicians  One one-week module  50 per module    P2,000  S4,000
Specialized Courses    5 individual oourses    n.a    P25,000    $4,000
Overseas Study Tour   one tour of 21 days  4 NWRB, 2  US$7,150   US$81,500
NEDA, 4 other
agencies
C.    Consulting Services. Local consultancy services are proposed to develop an internal
management information system for NWRB, reflecting its expanded role and
considering that regional offices may be established. Some strategic studies would be
carried out under the project in: subjects of critical long-term significance to water
resources management in the Philippines; NWRB's future role in economic
regulation, and economic incentives and market mechanisms; identification of priority
river basin planning; and role of river basin authorities. A notional estimate of
US$70,000 has been provided for this activity.
d.    Equipment. In addition to the equipment provided under the water management sub-
component, the project would augment the equipment available with the NWRB.
There are 12 vehicles with the Central Office which all date from the period 1975-79.
Most are past their useful life. It is proposed to provide two sedans and one utility
vehicle in partial replacement. In addition, it is proposed that each regional office
would be provided with one pick-up. Four 486 machines were procured under the
UNDP Groundwater Data Bank project. There are also others in various divisions, of
which some are old models, purchased in 1985. It is proposed to procure one
additional computer for the head office, together with one laser printer and one
photocopier. Each regional office would also be provided with a 486/586 computer, a
printer and one photocopier. About 60% of the costs of the equipment procured from
project funds would be in respect of the regional offices, with the balance for the
central office. Table 3 summarizes the equipment proposed, along with costs of
training and consultancy.



- 51 -
Annex I
Page 13 of 14
Table 3. Cost of Institutional Strengthening of NWRB (Duration  5 years)
Items                  No.   Unit Cost    Total
S        (USS)
Overseas tour          l0 pt   7,150/pt    81,500
Local seminars/training                    28,000
Research/studies                           70,000
Central office                             73,500
computers    1      3,000       3,000
laser printers    1    1,500      1,500
photocopies    1      4,000       4,000
sedan cars   2      20,000     40,000
4-w-drive    1     25,000      25,000
Field Offices (3)       3       35,000     105,000
computers   6       3,000       18,000
photocopies   3       4,000      12,000
pick-ups   3      25,000      75,000
Subtotal                      358,000
Recurrent costs I 3-y    240,000    720,000
Note:
The rate for overseas study tour for 21 days is US$7,150 = USS(3,000 + 21*150 +1,000)/person for travel, internal transport
and accommodations; number of persons is 10 (2 from NEDA, 4 from NWRB, and 4 from other agencies); and
USS10,000/tour for organizational arrangements with the agencies to be visited is included.
Organization and Management
31.       The National Water Resources Board (NWRB) will be responsible for overall component
coordination, assisted by the other sector agencies involved in the project. The NWRB would
establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) in the Office of the Executive Director with staff
deputized from each division. The PMU will: (i) oversee the project on behalf of NWRB; (ii)
coordinate with NIA and other agencies involved in the WRDP; (iii) prepare regular monitoring
reports as required; (iv) submit disbursement claims to the World Bank through NIA; and (v) prepare
the completion report evaluating the outcome of the water resources management component.
32.       Water Resources Management Sub-Component. In close coordination with the PMU, the
Policy and Programs Division of NWRB will take primary responsibility for implementing the water
resources management sub-component. Three task forces will be set up:
(i)    Task force 1 for the data monitoring activity: an inter-agency task force would
be formed, comprising agencies in the data design program (BRS, EMB and
MGB). This set up would be converted later into a National Water Resources



- 52 -                                Annex 1
Page 14 of 14
Data Coordinating Center (NWDCC) to take the lead in coordinating all
activities related to water resources data in the country.
(ii)   Task force 2 for NWIN to provide the counterpart staff and facilities for the
NWIN consultants: an inter-agency task force would be formed, comprising
participating agencies (BRS, EMB, MGB, PAGASA, NIA, NEDA, and
LWUA).
(iii)   Task force 3 for NWRP to implement and coordinate this activity, and
provide the counterpart staff and facilities for consultants: involved agencies
would nominate project coordinators and technical staff to form an inter-
agency task force, which will work closely, through secondment arrangements,
with the technical working group in NWRB. The Government would also
establish a high level Inter-agency Steering Committee (SC) for the
NWRP. The SC would consist of the heads of relevant agencies---DPWH,
NEDA, NIA, MWSS, LWUA, DILG, NPC, DENR and NWRB. The SC
would be responsible for policy issues and decisions on program
implementation.
33.      Both the NWDCC and NWIN offices within NWRB will be permanent, although in due
course they may be merged. The NWRP office may be merged with the Policy and Programs Division
once the consultants have completed their assignment. The three task forces will be responsible for
finalizing the TORs for the three activities. Depending on the nature of donor assistance obtained (tied
or untied grants and/or loans), the PMU will also represent NWRB in the process of recruiting
consultants and their supervision. A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) will be signed between
NWRB and each participating agency after the project is officially approved by the Government
and the Bank.
34.      Institutional Strengthening Sub-Component.  NWRB  would establish an Internal
Committee to oversee the implementation of the general reorganization of NWRB, in particular the
creation of regional offices once these have received Government approval. Subject to the decisions
and guidance of this Committee, the Administration and Finance Division of NWRB will take primary
responsibility for implementing the institutional strengthening sub-component, and for necessary
logistical support. It will coordinate with NIA for the procurement of equipment included under the
project for the water resources management component, and will provide counterpart staff and
facilities fbr the MIS consultancy. With regard to training, PMU would iden*iIy appropriate training
institutions, select staff candidates and coordinate the programs.



- 53 -
Annex 1
App1endix I
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPROVEMENT OF NATIONAL NETWORKS FOR STREAMFLOW, GROUNDWATER
AND WATER QUALITY MONITORING
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Background
1.    While there are many agencies collecting data on streamflow, groundwater and water quality in
the Philippines, much of these collections are project oriented data. The observations in the data stations
are generally terminated once the objectives of the projects are completed. There is no deliberate
program to carry out long-term observations. The only agency committed to long-term observations is
the Bureau of Research Standards (BRS) which is in charge of streamflow data. For various reasons,
however, BRS has terminated observations in some stations with long periods of record.
2.     The other major agencies collecting streamflow data are the National Power Corporation (NPC)
and the National Irrigation Administration (NIA). The BRS network includes some 630 stations of which
only 274 are currently maintained. The NPC network includes some 377 stations of which about 125 are
currently maintained. The NIA network includes some 162 stations of which about 43 are currently
maintained.
3.    There is no national groundwater data network to speak of in the sense that there are very few
observation wells being maintained nationwide. While there are many agencies with groundwater data,
the information available in the files of these agencies are spatial and static information on the wells
drilled such as location, lithology, well casings, and the results of pumping tests during the development
of these wells. Time series data on piezometric levels and pumping rates from observation wells and
production wells are not being collected regularly.
4.     The Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), through its regional offices and
attached agencies, collects water quality data on rivers and lakes. The primary objective of the data
collection is for classifying and monitoring these surface waters for the different types of beneficial use.
Some agencies periodically collect water quality data on groundwater. In general, however, there are
very few permanent stations for the regular collection of ambient water quality for both surface water
and groundwater.
B. Objectives
5.    The objectives of the consultancy assignment are to recommend improvements in the three
national primary monitoring networks for streamnflow, groundwater and water quality, and to specify
action plans for establishment/rehabilitation of the three networks, equipment, and recommend
institutional capacity building programs of the relevant agencies in charge of the networks to undertake
their tasks in operating and maintaining the networks.



- 54 -
Annex I
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 4
6.    The data networks will consist of permanent benchmark stations for which observations should
be made regularly and continuously. The specific objectives of data collection are to be able to define
the hydrological and hydrogeological characteristics of the country as well as the changes in the water
quality of the surface water and groundwater resources.
C. Scope of Work
7.    The consultants are expected to undertake the following tasks:
a.    Review and assess the adequacy of the existing monitoring networks operated by BRS,
MGB and EMB, as well as those operated by major water user agencies--NIA, NPC,
LWUA, DA, etc. (including network distribution, types, equipment, means of data
collection, reporting and validating, capability and adequacy of field personnel, and
inter-agency coordination).
b.    Carry out rationalization analysis of the networks, through identification of new
locations where additional stations should be set up to improve accuracy of key
monitoring points or in anticipation of future development in the areas, and through
identification of unnecessary stations which should be discontinued.
C.    Recommend stations which should be included as part of the permanent national
benchmark observation networks.
d.    Design plans of the network distribution, including types, format, specifications of
equipment and instruments, and observing frequencies.
e.    Identify pilot or priority schemes and carry out initial rehabilitation or setting up (and
testing) in selected locations under this program.
f.    Prepare an action plan for a phased implementation of the recommended plans
(including corresponding cost estimates, and likely funding sources), for approval and
procurement by the respective agencies in charge of the networks.
g.    Train government staff in network planning, field office procedures, and operation and
maintenance; and recommend institutional capacity building programs of the relevant
agencies in charge of the networks to undertake their tasks in operating and maintaining
the networks.
D. Outputs and Schedule
8.    It is expected that the overall study period will be 12 months. The consultants will submit the
following products:
a.    An Inception Report within one month after the start of the project.
b.    Quarterly Progress Reports within one week after the end of each quarter.
c.    Draft Final Report within I I months after the start of the project.
d.    Final Report at the end of the project.



- 55 -
Annex I
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 4
9.    The consultants will submit the following items to the respective agencies in charge of the
networks, together with the Final Report and the design of the networks:
a.    All equipment procured under the project.
b.    Licensed copies of all proprietary computer software used together with manuals.
c.    Copies of all computer software developed in magnetic form together with source listing
and full documentation.
d.    Copies of all data used in magnetic form and hard copy.
e.    Complete description of all methodologies used together with the assumptions made.
E. Participation of Government Agencies
10.   A technical working group has been set up in NWRB for implementation and coordination of
this program. Other relevant agencies--BRS, EMB and MGB--would nominate project coordinators and
technical staff to form an inter-agency task force, which will work closely with the technical working
group in NWRB. A Memorandum of Agreements (MOA) will be signed between NWRB and each
participating agency after the project is officially approved by the Government and the World Bank.
F. Staffing
i1.   It is estimated that the expatriate and local specialists combined would provide a total of 22
person-months. NWRB and relevant subsector agencies will provide counterpart professional staff in
the various disciplines for a total of 36 person-months.
12.   Detailed cost breakdown and indicative input from staff and consultants are shown in Table 1.



- 56 -
Annex I
Appendix I
Page 4 of 4
Table 1 Improvement of Hydrological Monitoring Networks
Cost for design of three primary networks         Duration = 12 months
Items (mm)                   Cost      Foreign        Local       Government
(US$)   consultant  consultant   contribution*
hydrologist                             2            6               12
hydrogeologist                           1            6              12
water quality spec.                      1           6               12
Sub-total in mm                       4            18             36
in US$                    80,000       90,000
Summary Cost
Consultancy - foreign       80,000
- local         90,000
Field trips/car rental      40,000
Equipment                   288,000
Supplies & miscl.           15,000
Total  513,000
Note:
(a)    US$20,000/mm for international consultants (including fees, international and internal travel and
subsistence, (US$3,000/person/trip estimated per international trip).
(b)    US$5,000 for local consultants (including fees, internal travel, and subsistence).
(c)    * means government contributions, excluded from the total cost.
(d)    Supplies & miscl. include office space, office supplies, printing and copying, and secretary support.
(e)    Field trips and car rental include airfairs and allowance for staff and consultants to travel to station sites.
(f)    Equipment includes -- for each of the 12 regions:
* Current meters, automatic flow recorders --- US$8,000/region
*   Triple tube sampler and pumps for groundwater and water quality---US$ 8,000 /region
*   Water quality instrument for pH, conductivity, oxygen, temperature for groundwater --- USS4,000/region
* Potable water quality analyzers --- US$4,000/region
Month                         1    2   3   4   5   6  7   8   9   10   l1   12
Review
Design                             #   #         #   ##    #
Procurement                                                   #   #   #
Testing and operation                                         #         #    #    #
Training 



- 57 -
Annex I
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 8
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL WATER INFORMATION NETWORK
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Background
1.    The collection of water data in the Philippines has always been the responsibility of many
agencies in the same manner that there are many agencies concerned with water resources
development and management. In some agencies, data collection is one of their primary
responsibilities. Other agencies are basically development or regulatory agencies whose data
collection activity is only a secondary responsibility. The data collected by each of these
agencies is usually limited to only the particular element of the water database that is needed by
the agency to carry out its mandate.
2.    Access to the database of the various agencies is inconvenient. Very few agencies
publish their data collection regularly. Most of the data has remained as unpublished reports in
the files of the various agencies. The conventional way to make the data readily accessible is to
have a central repository containing printed copies of all information from the various agencies.
3.    With existing technology, it is much more efficient to have a National Water Information
Network (NWIN) which will be a computer-based network system that electronically links the
databases of the collection agencies and providing easy access to user agencies. This is envisaged
to be done via modems in the medium term under the Water Resources Development Project
(WRDP). In the longer term, a multi-node Wide Area Network (WAN) would be considered,
depending on the experience under the WRDP and the recommendations of the consultants being
engaged for the current assignment. In the system envisaged under the WRDP for the medium
term, the National Water Resources Board (NWRB) will act as the central database to which the
various agencies will be linked. Provision has been made under the WRDP for the necessary
computer equipment for the NWRB, six major data generating agencies (Philippines
Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA), Bureau of
Research and Standards (BRS), Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) under the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), Mines and Geosciences Bureau
(GMB) under the DENR, Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA), and National Irrigation
Administration), and one major user agency (National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA), Infrastructure Staff). The agencies will be responsible for maintaining their respective
databases which will be in their custody. The printing of data will be done only when needed.
4.    There are a number of preliminary activities and systems which have been undertaken
and which may be considered in the design of the NWIN. The NWRB initiated the development



- 58 -
Annex I
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 8
of the Philippines Automated Water Information System (PAWIS), a main frame computer-
based system for the storage, retrieval, and analysis of water data. With the advent and growing
popularity of personal computers, together with the fact that the NWRB did not own a main
frame computer, PAWIS became obsolete and it was not considered cost-effective to continue
development of the system. PAWIS as a concept may still be revived using more modem and
appropriate technology. Several years of streamflow records have been loaded in main-frame
hard disks and may still be retrieved.
5.    The pilot GIS-based groundwater data system, currently installed at NWRB as the central
node, has been designed to electronically link the groundwater database of various agencies. In
the first stage, LWUA and National Irrigation Administration (NIA) were to be linked to
NWRB, but this has not happened reportedly due to technical problems with the modem
(imported from the United States) which could not be fixed. The project was funded by UNDP.
When the project was completed in 1994, some 8,000 well records from seven pilot areas had
been entered in the LWUA database. The NWRB staff are currently entering the well records
from NWRB files and have completed processing about 9,000 records by the end of 1995.
6.    The HYDATA  software package for the archiving, processing, and analysis of
streamflow data is currently installed at NIA. The database is loaded with daily river flow data
for about 130 gauging stations. The software was installed as part of a World Bank-supported
project (the Second Communal Irrigation Development Project) for the project component
relating to assessment of hydrological potential and yield in micro-catchment areas.
7.    The libraries of the University of the Philippines, Ateneo University, and De La Salle
University are already electronically linked and all are connected to the Internet. The NWRB
library may also be linked with these universities.
B. Objectives
8.    The objectives of the consultancy assignment are to: (i) design the NWIN as a personal
computer-based system that would electronically link the databases of the collection agencies as
well as providing easy access to user agencies; and (ii) recommend a phased implementation
program for establishing the NWIN.
C. NWIN Concept and Specifications
9.    The databases that will ultimately be linked to NWIN will include, but not be limited to,
hydrologic, hydrogeologic, meteorologic, physiographic including related infrastructure, socio-
economic, environmental, and library databases.
10.   The NWRB will host a central database where much of the data of NWIN will be
stored. For efficiency and data security, important and frequently used data generated by other
involved agencies will be stored in this central database. Besides large data storage capacity, the



- 59 -
Annex I
Appendix 2
Page 3 of 8
central database will also be provided with powerful computing capability so that it can serve the
number-crunching requirements of other users. The central database would also have multiple
data communication ports and dedicated telephone lines to enable several member agencies to
connect simultaneously.
11.   Agencies with large databases will host one major database each. It is envisaged that, in
the long term, eight agencies (listed in Table 1) will have such major databases, each having its
own multi-user computing and database capability and linked either by telephone line or WAN to
the central database. For the first phase, provision has only been made under the WRDP for
seven agencies--BRS, MGB, EMB, PAGASA, NIA, LWUA, and NEDA to be linked by
telephone line to the NWRB. Nine other user agencies (Table I) will operate their databases
according to their requirements and, in the long term, communicate with the network using
telephone lines or WAN (provision has been made under the WRDP for NEDA to be linked by
telephone line to the NWRB). In the long term, additional databases and database users may also
be linked to the network, including the Regional offices of the major participating agencies listed
in Table 3.
12.   The NWIN structure would allow for autonomy of operation at each agency. The major
databases would be able to process their raw collected data using their own data handling and
analysis software, and make available to the network clean and immediately usable information
and statistics. Supervisor programs will handle the user queries. Bulk data transfers would be
done by large capacity portable storage media, i.e. removable hard disks, magneto-optical disks,
or streaming tapes, to avoid tying up the network traffic. Database integrity and data security
would be a hallmark of design of the supervisor software.
13.   Although the NWIN will have a central database, it will not exercise operational network
control in a manner that a central server does. Major databases and the central database would
communicate as peers. The only major change to agency data handling would be to ensure that
the data structures of files to be integrated into the NWIN will contain geographic location and
co-ordinate attributes so that all can be incorporated into a GIS framework in the long term.
Policy-wise, the NWRB will oversee the NWIN and provide periodic updates and directives
throughout its development and operation.
14.   Commercially available software for handling the network, data and query handling, GIS,
hydrologic, hydrogeologic, and other databases will be used where appropriate.
D. ScopeofWork
15.   The Consultants are expected to undertake, among other things, the following tasks:
a.    Design and develop the central data base for the NWRB and data bases for the
major data generating agencies (para. 3 above) relating to surface water and water
quality, which would be linked under NWIN (the data base for ground water,



- 60 -
Aimex I
Appendix 2
Page 4 of 8
which has already been developed under the UNDP Project (para. 5 above), will
be reviewed with a view to incorporating it under the NWIN). The design of data
bases will take into account the possibility of establishment of a GIS-based WAN
in the long term. Detailed recommendations would be made regarding the rules
and regulations to govern the operation of NWIN, and the frequency of updating
of files required from the major data generating agencies.
b.    Assess the information technology (IT) equipment currently available with the
potential participating agencies with a view to utilising such equipment in
establishing the NWIN; and based on the above assessment, prepare the
specifications of the required additional IT hardware and software, for which
provision has been made under the WRDP, for approval and procurement by
NWRB.
c.    Prepare a phased implementation program reflecting the requirements of the
program and the funds available.
d.    Supervise the installation of the computer equipment, including the modems, at
NWRB and other participating agencies.
e.    Develop the user manuals and training modules, and train the staff of NWRB and
other participating agencies in the use of the data system.
f.    Supervise the initial operations of the data system.
g.    Assess the desirability of establishing a WAN in the long term for all the agencies
listed in Table 1 and, possibly, their Regional offices; in this connection, the
consultants will: (i) quantify, to the extent possible, the current and likely data
traffic on the network; (ii) review the reasons for the lack of linkage of ground
water data bases under the UNDP Project (para. 5 above), and what, if any,
problems are created for NWRB and other agencies as a result of this lack of
linkage (indicating which are the current and/or potential users of the data);
h.    Based on the result of item g. (above), design the pilot phase implementation of
the WAN system to be linked to the seven agencies; prepare specifications of the
needed hardware and software; procure equipmnet; and carry out installation,
evaluate operating and testing of the system.
i.    Prepare guidelines and manuals for system operation and maintenace; cany out
training of key agency staff.



- 61 -
Annex 1
Appendix 2
Page 5 of 8
E. Reporting
16.   The consultants will submit the following reports:
a.    An Inception Report within one month after the start of the project.
b.    Quarterly Progress Report within one week after the end of the first quarter.
c.    Draft Final Report within 5 months after the start of the project.
d.    Final Report at the end of the project.
17.   The consultants will submit the following items to NWRB together with the Final Report:
a.    All equipment procured under the project.
b.    Licensed copies of all proprietary computer software used together with manuals.
c.    Copies of all computer softwares developed in magnetic form together with
source listing and full documentation.
d.    Users manual and training modules for the data system.
F. Staffing
18.   It is estimated that the expatriate and local specialists combined would provide a total of
45 person-months.    NWRB  and relevant subsector agencies will provide counterpart
professional staff in the various disciplines for a total of 36 person-months.
19.   Detailed cost breakdown and indicative input from staff and consultants are shown in
Table 1 and Table 2.
Table 1. National Water Information Network (NWIN)
Consultancy Services and Government Staff Contributions (mm)
Duration = 12 months
Items (mm)                            Foreign     Trips      Local      Gov. staff
Consultant            Consultant       *
Information system specialist in       I0         1          12           12
hydrology and planning (leader)
Data communication spec.               4          1          3            5
System analyst/programmer              2          1          6            3
GIS specialists                        2          1          2            6
Water resources planner                0          0          2            6
Water quality specialists.             0          0          2            4
Sub-total in mm               18          4         27           36
in US$    360,000               135,000



- 62 -
Appendix 2
Page 6 of 8
Table 2. Establishment of NWIN --Summary Cost
Items                                  Cost  Unit Cost
(USS$)
Consultants                         495,000
foreign                          360,000
local                            135,000
Local travel /car rental             15,000
Equipment                           221,980
principal node (1)-hard            66,400
principal node (1)-soft            23,000
contributor nodes (7)-hard/soft   132,580    18,940/p
Supplies & miscl.                    15,000
Total                  746,980
(a) US$20,000/mm for international consultants (including fees, international and internal travel, and
subsistence); (US$3,000/person/trip estimated per international trip).
(a) US$5,000 for local consultants (including fees, internal travel, and subsistence).
(c) * means government contributions, excluded from the total cost.
(d) Supplies & miscl. include office space, office supplies, printing and copying, and secretary support.
Month                      1   2   3   4   5   6  7   8   9   10   11   12
Database system review     #    #
Network design                  #   #   #   #   #
Procurement of equipment                     #   #  #   #   #   #
Testing and operation                                    ##    #    #    #
Training/operating manuals                                   #   #    #    #



- 63 -
Annex 1
Appendix 2
Page 7 of 8
Indicative Costs for the Principal Node at NWRB
Hardware for communications/database                          USs
I Intel Pentium 120 Mz CPU, 144 MB RAM, 256 KB Cache                32,000
4 GB Hard Disk Drive, with 17" color monitor, CD Rom speaker
with Synchronous Adapter for PC
I SMP CPU 80586, 120 Mz, 64 MB RAM (main workstation)                 4,000
(including 17" color monitor, CD ROM, speaker,
modem, DOS window software)
3 Uninterripted power supply                                          1,700
WAN server package (networking software, card, and cables)           10,300
Tape back-up drive (IGB)                                              2,000
Removable disk drive (250 MB)                                         2,000
High speed Laser mono-printer                                         3,000
Semi-expendables                                                      4,000
1 Photocopier                                                         5,000
Furniture (2 sets)                                                    2,000
Telephone lines                                                        400
sub-total                    66Q400
Software for communications/database
GIS supervisor                                                       10,000
Hydrological information analysis                                     5,000
Hydrological simulation analysis                                      5,000
SQL (sequential quiring language) database software                   3,000
sub-total                         23.000
Total for NWRB                    89.400
Indicative Costs for Contributor Nodes at 7 agencies
(BRS, EMB. MGB. PAGASA, NIA. LWUA, NEDA)
Hardware for communications
2 SMP CPU 80586, 120 Mz, 64 MB RAM                                    8,000
(including 17" color monitor, CD ROM, speaker, modem,
DOS window software)
Uninterripted power supply                                             540
Tape back-up drive (1 GB)                                             2,000
Removable disk drive (250 MB)                                         2,000
High speed Laser mono-printer                                         3,000
Semi-expendables                                                      2,000
Furniture (I sets)                                                     700
Data/fax modem and software                                            500
Telephone lines                                                        200
sub-total for each agency         18,940
Total for 7 agencies             132,580
Grand total for NWIN equipment                                      221.980



- 64 -
Annex 1
Appendix 2
Page 8 of 8
Table 3: List Of Agencies To Participate In Nwin
CENTRAL DATABASE
National Water Resources Board                                        NWRB
MAJOR DATABASES
1. Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical, and Astronomical Services         PAGASA
Administration
2. Bureau of Research and Standards                                       BRS
3. Environmental Management Bureau                                        EMB
4. Mines and Geosciences Bureau                                           MGB
5. Local Water Utilities Administration                                   LWUA
6. Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System                            MWSS
7. National Irrigation Administration                                     NIA
8. National Power Corporation                                             NPC
MAJOR USER AGENCIES
1. National Economic and Development Authority                           NEDA
2. Project Management Office-Rural Water Supply                           PMO-RWS
3. PMO-Small Water Impounding Management                                  PMO-SWIM
4. PMO-Major Flood Control                                                PMO-MFC
5. Bureau of Soils and Water Management                                   BSWM
6. Bureau of Research and Laboratories                                    BSL
7. National Mapping and Resource Information Administration               NAMRIA
8. Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology                     PHILVOLC
9. Department of Interior and Local Government                            DILG



- 65 -
Annex I1
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 10
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FORMULATION OF NATIONAL WATER RESOURCES PLAN
DRAF r TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Background
1.    General. The country comprises of about 7,000 islands, located in the tropical belt,
south-east of the Asian mainland. Of a total area of some 300,000 sq. km,, about 65% is
accounted for by the two largest islands--Luzon and Mindanao--and 25% by a further nine
islands. For planning purposes, the country has been classified in 12 water resources regions,
which are defined by both hydrological boundaries but considering also physiographic features
and climate homogeneity. There are some 419 river basins, with drainage areas ranging from 40
to 25,000 sq. km. Some 41 are classified as major river basins. These 12 water resources regions
also broadly correspond to existing political regions.
2.    The country has a population of about 68 million (1995), and population growth remains
high at about 2.2% per year. After ten years of minimal growth (real per capita income in 1993
was lower than in 1977), the country's economy began to expand in 1993. Private sector
confidence has strengthened and the economic policy reforms adopted should help sustain
growth in the medium and longer terms. However, this will depend crucially on continuing
measures to keep public finances sound, to stimulate capital formation, to maintain
competitiveness by liberalizing the economy, and to secure the necessary financial support from
abroad.
3.    Rapid population growth and renewed economic growth has placed increasing pressures
on the country's natural resources, including its water resources. Despite its relative abundance,
water shortages have occurred repetitively during the dry season. There are also regions where it
may be impossible to meet anticipated demands even with full development. Moreover,
environmental deterioration has directly affected the availability of water in some areas and the
quality of life. Costs of flood damage are increasing with catchinent degradation and flood plain
development.
4.    Water Resources Management Framework. The water management framework in the
Philippines was largely created in the 1970s. It comprises the following main elements:
* A basic law (the 1976 Water Code) which consolidated previous legislation; clarified
ownership of water and rights to its use; and established broad priorities in allocation;
* A planning foundation comprising the 1976 Water Resources Assessment, together
with some 40-plus basin and regional framework plans prepared between 1976-83;



- 66 -
Annex 1
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 10
* A licensing system which provides an instrument for management and control
consistent with the planning foundation; and
* A water management agency --the National Water Resources Board (NWRB) that
administers the water code and provides a mechanism for co-ordinating activities of
the many agencies involved in water.
5.    This framework responded to the problems of the 1970s. But pressures on the resource
have increased greatly and weaknesses have emerged both in the framework and--more
particularly --its implementation. Weaknesses are especially evident during droughts and cholera
outbreaks. More generally they are reflected in growing water conflicts; deteriorating water
quality; inadequate provision of water services; and inconsistent activities amongst agencies
involved in the sector.
6.    The National Water Summit. GOP is aware of the need to address these issues. To this
end, it has undertaken a number of important sub-sector studies and policy initiatives. These
culminated in the December 1994 National Water Summit, convened by the President and
attended by members of the Cabinet and Congress; ranking officials in the water sector;
stakeholder representatives; and the media.  Following the Summit, the President issued
Memorandum Order No. 244, directing the NWRB "to strictly enforce the provisions of the
Water Code" and recognising "an urgent need to properly manage the utilisation of the nation's
water resources... (including)... the need for the further integration and co-ordination of all
water-related efforts towards a more focused approach to water resources management". The
1995 Water Crisis Act further emphasized the importance of water. Among its provisions, it
requires the Joint Executive-Legislative Water Crisis Commission--set up by the Act--to submit
recommendations to the President and Congress to address these issues, including measures to
strengthen the NWRB. Besides institutional and regulatory measures, it is expected that
improvements to the basic data system and planning base will be supported.
B. Major Institutional Constraints in the Water Resources Sector
7.    Fragmented Water Management Responsibilities. The concept of integrated management
of water resources--cross-subsectors, quality and quantity, groundwater and surface water--is yet
to be implemented in the Philippines. Agencies in each subsector have largely independent
strategies for resource development and operations. Although there is little overlap among the
subsector activities, negative externalities from excessive water withdrawals and discharges have
extended across subsectors, and between the upstream and downstream areas of river basins
(Angat is a well-known example). Unfortunately, mechanisms to deal with them are too
fragmented. Technical inadequacies at NWRB and general institutional weaknesses in the water
sector prevent NWRB from fulfilling either its coordination or regulatory functions.



- 67 -
Annex 1
Appendix 3
Page 3 of 10
8.    Absence of an Overall Planning Framework to Guide Investment Activities. All
subsectoral plans are submitted directly to NEDA and DBM for inclusion in the national MTPIP.
There are no cross-sectoral water resources plans to integrate effectively the various water and
land use activities, water quality and quantity management, and conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater.
9.    One of the provisions of the Water Code states that: "no program or project involving the
appropriation, utilization, exploitation, development, control, or protection of water resources
may be undertaken without prior approval by NWRB". NWRB is thus mandated to co-ordinate
and integrate the plans and programs of all water resources agencies such as water supply,
irrigation, drainage, hydropower, flood control, and environment protection. Despite clear
stipulations in the Water Code, these plans seldom go through prior NWRB approval. NWRB
has neither the guiding strategies, national master plans, updated basin plans, nor adequate staff
resources needed to assess such investment plans and grant approvals.
10.   Some Initial Framework Plans. Some early work was initiated in framework plans for
twelve regions and forty one major river basins. Although these framework plans included an
inventory of existing resources and facilities and an indication of needs up to 2000, strategies for
development were not included. In 1994, NWRB prepared an updated "National Framework
Plan on Water Resources Management". This included twelve "Regional Framework Studies"
which, though less detailed than the earlier framework plans, in some respects provided updated
data and analysis. Several basin planning studies have been undertaken by other agencies, for
instance for the Laguna de Bay Lake basin.
11.   By providing an overview, framework plans provide agencies with a better appreciation
of issues and problems outside their own sector, besides suggesting opportunities for joint
projects. However, they fall short of the planning needed to rationalize the development and
management of water resources in an integrated and sustainable manner. To help rectify this
deficiency, GOP intends to engage the services of Consultants for the formulation of a National
Water Resources Plan (NWRP).
12.   The formulation of the water resources plan for sustainable water resources management
is needed urgently. The last assessment of water and land resources in the Philippines was
conducted almost 20 years ago. These plans continue to be used for identifying investment
opportunities, despite substantial changes in the environment over the past two decades. Land
use activities have affected flow patterns and the quality of waters in rivers and in coastal zones.
Watershed degradation has modified hydrological conditions. Some data are no longer valid.
The earlier plans seldom considered water quality, which has emerged as an important problem
in recent years. Neither are there disaster (drought, floods) management plans. During
emergencies, actions are mostly taken on an ad hoc basis, accompanied by the announcement of
new policies or speedy passage of laws, which often result in inconsistencies in policies.



- 68 -
Annex I
Appendix 3
Page 4 of 10
C. Objectives
13.   The general objective of the NWRP is to provide a framework for sustainable
development and management of the nation's water and land resources to promote economic
development and social equity, and to ensure environmental quality in the long-term. The
specific objective is to provide an essential tool to enable NWRB to carry out its mandate
effectively, to provide it a basis for the coordination and integration of the policies, strategies,
plans and investment projects of all the stakeholders. The water plan will provide NWRB the
technical information needed for recommending to NEDA development investment options to be
included in the MTPIP.
14.   The preparation of the NWRP should be seen as an iterative process designed to fashion a
long-term planning framework compatible with national goals and objectives and with sound
environmental management principles. At each stage of the study, alternatives should be
presented and analysed for discussion purposes, with all the important evaluation and decision
factors displayed so as to allow an objective evaluation of the preferred course of action
compared to other feasible alternatives.  The aim will be to develop a flexible planning system
capable of continuous evolution rather than to present a rigid blue print. It is anticipated that the
NWRP will be subsequently updated on a regular basis, possibly every five years.
D. ScopeolWork
15.   Overall. The plan should be based on a reassessment of water resources availability in all
12 regions, an assessment of future needs in water demand, and the potential and timing for
developing additional water supply, especially in critical river basins (such as Angat). The plan
will reflect the country's socio-economic and environmental goals, and review realistic
development targets in relation to water availability and protection, employ new techniques of
planning and resource assessment, identify investment opportunities for infrastructure to be put
in place in anticipation of foreseeable increases in demand over the medium-long term. It will
integrate land use and subsectoral strategies, and the use of surface water and groundwater. The
plan will identify critical river basins and the need for development or updating of river basin
plans. The plan will also study institutional arrangements for river basin management and
recommend basins where management and development of water resources can be best delegated
to a basin level authority.
16.   The NWRP is expected to include three phases. Phase 1, the existing situation will be
fully documented and assessed; and a planning approach and study schedule will be prepared.
Phase 2, national goals and objectives will be evaluated as a basis for reaching agreement on the
overall policy and institutional framework; an analytical capability for a systematic evaluation of
the resource will be developed and utilized to prepare water resources balances by region and
major basin to the years 2010 and 2020; broad water resources management options will be
discussed and evaluated; and basins to receive priority for detailed study will be recommended.



- 69 -
Annex 1
Appendix 3
Page 5 of 10
Phase 3 will comprise the formulation of the National Water Management Plan and its
component parts.
Phase 1. Assessment of the Present Situation and Submission of Detailed Study Proposals
(a)   Review existing studies relevant to water and land use and planning, e.g.
Framework Plans prepared by NWRB, sub-sectoral master plans by different
agencies, national medium-term economic plans by NEDA;
(b)   Assess adequacy of data and validability of data sources, and specify additional
information which needs to be collected during this program;
(c)   Describe the strengths and weaknesses in the existing data, analytical systems,
and identify major gaps, inconsistencies and shortcomings;
(d)   Identify appropriate analytical and planning methods to be used in this program,
including physical water resources system simulation and analysis of different
aspects of the physical system, and evaluation and optimization of development
proposals;
(e)   Prepare an inception report describing in detail the planning methodologies to be
used in the NWRP, together with a detailed work program.
(f)   Prepare specifications of the Information Technology (IT) equipment, software,
and other equipment needed for the NWRP for approval and procurement.
Phase 2. Water Balance Studies and Identification of Water Resources Management Options
(a)   Document and assess national and regional social and economic goals and
objectives relevant to the formulation of water resource management options and
to the NWRP;
(b)   Identify future development trends, and evaluate their impact on water resources
demand, development and conservation, in order to achieving the national and
regional objectives;
(c)   Taking into account existing (NEDA's or other agencies') indicative demographic
and economic projections for the economy in the medium (2010) and long (2020)
terms, assess alternative perspectives of overall development prospects and issues,
on a national and regional basis;
(d)   Review infrastructure development in water resources, determining factors
relevance to selection and design of future water projects;



- 70 -
Annex 1
Appendix 3
Page 6 of 10
(e)   Prepare an assessment of water availability by region and major basins, using
physically based deterministic models for conjunctive uses of surface and ground
waters;
(f)   Prepare an assessment of demands by region and major basins for the years 2000,
2010 and 2020, reflecting present and possible future facilities in water supply,
irrigation, hydropower, flood control, environmental management etc. and prepare
water balances;
(g)   Assess major water resource management issues, including those associated with:
droughts, floods and inundation in urban, rural and coastal areas; water supply
(surface & subsurface) and demand and the future water balance; in-stream uses
(fisheries, hydropower etc.) and the constraints they impose on water
management; water quality, pollution (point and non-point) and sanitation
services; and salinity intrusion and protection of the natural environment;
(h)   Identify medium and long-term water resource management options, including
preventive measures (flood control, drainage etc.); supply augmentation (inter-
regional water transfers, surface/ sub-surface development etc.); management of
water quality (sanitation, pollution control, salinity control etc.); and protection of
the natural environment (ecological systems, habitats, etc.); together with
measures to support implementation, real-time management and O&M of
development programs and projects;
(i)    Evaluate alternative policy measures that complement supply augmentation and
water control in support of balanced and sustainable development of water and
associated land resources, including but not necessarily being limited to
regulatory, financial, cost recovery and other demand management approaches;
(j)    Evaluate possible impacts of alternative strategies on national development
prospects, and on the environment and resources setting, the aim being to display
important evaluation criteria to support recommended courses of action compared
to other feasible alternatives;
(k)   Identify criteria and methods for option ranking;
(1)   Identify priority basins for further studies, and prepare Terms of Reference for
undertaking priority basin planning; and
(m)   Prepare a report summarizing the conclusions of the options studies and providing
a draft outline of NWRP.



- 71 -
Annex 1
Appendix 3
Page 7 of 10
Phase 3. Formulation of the National Water Resources Plan
(a)   Assess water and land resources, and their medium and long-term potential and
constraints, evaluating the risks associated with typhoon events, annual and
seasonal variability in rainfall and river flows, long-term trends in the flows in the
border rivers, salinity intrusion, pollution, and other factors of major significance;
(b)   Propose medium term and long term criteria for the preservation, allocation and
utilization of the water and associated land resources which would serve the long-
term requirements of Philippines society and economy, and specify the level of
risks that can reasonably be, or which will have to be, incurred by different
populations and users;
(c)   Develop an analytical approach, such as through the use of policy analysis and
planning models, for the evaluation of projects within a multi-sectoral context,
linking analyses of the physical system with development and management
options, together with arrangements for ensuring consistency amongst different
activities;
(d)   Formulate a long-term water development plan which responds to national goals
and objectives, and is appropriately phased. The proposed plan should provide for
regional balance, subject to the requirements of overall economic and social
development and to protecting the natural environment. It should be specified in
relative detail over the medium term, and in outline terms over the longer term.
Risks should be assessed together with measures for ameliorating them;
(e)   Consistent with the long-term water resources development plan, prepare a long-
term investment portfolio phased according to GOP's normal planning cycle.
Such a portfolio should, inIr "  include the location, outline designs and
alignments of major works, orders-of-magnitude costs (by domestic and foreign
components), annual O&M requirements and economic justification for major
projects and for the entire plan;
(f)   Identify priority, near-term  water management programs and projects for
implementation for the first five years, and propose feasibility, design and
construction schedules;
(g)   Make recommendations to strengthen institutional capacity in support of the
proposed NWRP, including the proposals for any further reviews necessary of the
legislative, regulatory and organizational framework in support of water resources
development;



- 72 -
Annex 1
Appendix 3
Page 8 of 10
(h)   Recommend measures designed to strengthen the implementation, real-time
management and subsequent O&M of completed systems, reflecting constraints
and performance problems associated with water resources management
interventions in the Philippines;
(i)    Recommend complementary regulatory, financial, cost recovery and related
demand management policies designed to ensure the balanced and sustainable
development of water and associated land resources;
(j)   Propose a monitoring and evaluation system to facilitate the feed-back of
performance results into the decision making and planning system; and
(k)   Train NWRB staff in the use of all computer programs and/or models used in the
NWRP.
E. Outputs and Schedule
17.  It is expected that the overall study period will be two years (24 months).  While the
three phases of the planning provide a natural division of the study period, they will be
overlapping and iterative. Subject to these considerations, the consultants will:
-     .Within 3 months from signing the contract, submit an Inception Report presenting
the main conclusions of the review of existing reports, data and analytical
techniques, and setting out a detailed work program for the entire study period;
*     Within 10 months, prepare a draft "Options" report for iterative review and
discussion with GOP; and
*     Within 16 months, draft master plan and consultations with various agencies on
selection of options and the draft plan.
*     Within 22 months, submit a final NWRP.
18.   The computer programs used and/or developed must be (i) portable; (ii) interactive, user
friendly; (iii) able to have input/output options for all media i.e. keyboard, diskettes, monitor;
and (iv) able to provide visualization graphics. The consultants will submit the following items
to NWRB together with their Final Plan:
a.    All equipment procured under the project;
b.    Licensed copies of all proprietary computer software used together with manuals;



- 73 -
AnnexI
Appendix 3
Page 9 of 10
C.    Copies of all software developed under the project in magnetic form, together
with source listing and full documentation;
d     Copies of all data used in magnetic form and hard copy; and
e.    Complete descriptions of all methodologies used together with the assumptions
made.
F. Participation of Government Agencies
19.   The Government would establish a high level Inter-agency Steering Committee (SC) for
the NWRP. The SC would consist of the heads of relevant agencies -- DPWH, NEDA, NIA,
MWSS, LWUA, DILG, NPC, DENR and NWRB. The SC would be responsible for policy
issues and decision of program implementation.
20.   A technical working group has been set up in NWRB for implementation and
coordination of this program. Other relevant agencies would nominate project coordinators and
technical staff to form an inter-agency task force, which will work closely, through secondment
arrangements, with the technical working group in NWRB. A Memorandum of Agreement
(MOA) will be signed between NWRB and each participating agency after the project is
officially approved by the Government and the World Bank.
G. Staffing
21.  It is estimated that the expatriate and local specialists combined would provide a total of
176 person-months.   NVWRB and relevant subsector agencies will provide counterpart
professional staff in the various disciplines for a total of 244 person-months.
22.   Detailed cost breakdown and indicative input from staff and consultants are shown in
Table I and Table 2.



- 74 -
Annex 1
Appendix 3
Page 10 of 10
Table 1 Formulation of National Water Resources Plan
Consultancy Services and Government Staff Input (man-month)   Duration =24 months
Gov.
Area of Expertise                   Expatriate    Trips        Local    Staff*
Water resources planners (Leaders)       18           3         24         24
Hydrologists                             10           1         10         36
Hydrogeologists                          -            -          8         12
Water supply engineers.                  -            -         10         18
Irrigation engineers                      -           -          10        10
Hydropower engineers                      -           -          8          5
Flood control engineers                  -            -          10         5
Water resources engineers                10           2          -         20
Economists                               5            1          6         12
Environmentalists                        -            -          6         10
System analysts in hydrology             9            2         16         40
Computer programmers                     -            -         16         42
Land use planner                         -            -          -         10
Subtotal in mm                        52           9         124        244
in US$                    1,040,000               620,000
Table 2 Formulation of National Water Resources Plan
Summary Cost
Items                     Cost
(US$1,000)
Consultants
International                        1,040,000
Local                                  620,000
Field survey trips                      32,000
Data collection/aerial photos           50,000
Equipment
Vehicles (2)                            40,000
Software/hmardware                     100,000
Supplies and miscl.                       70,000
Total    1,952,000
*   US$20,000/mm for international consultants (including fees, international and internal travel, and
subsistence); (US$3,000 per international trip).
*   US$5,000 for local consultants (including fees, internal travel, and subsistence).
* * means government contributions, excluded from the total cost.
*   Supplies & miscl. include office space, office supplies, printing and copying, and secretary support.



- 75 -                               Annex 2
Page I of 6
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The IrriLation Sub-Sector
1.   Irrigation development has been an important factor underlying agricultural growth in the
Philippines over the past two decades. Irrigation systems now serve an area of about 1.5 million
ha, about 48% of the area considered suitable for irrigation. About 95% of the irrigated area is
devoted to paddy production. In most lowland areas, average rainfall is generally adequate for a
rice crop in the wet season, with the exception of southern Mindanao. However, rainfall is often
not evenly distributed and dry spells frequently necessitate supplementary water supplies in most
areas. Provision of irrigation in the wet season thus reduces the risk of crop failure and helps
increase yields. For dry season cropping, irrigation is essential in all climatic zones in the country.
2.    There are three main irrigation systems in the Philippines:
a)    National Irrigation Systems (NIS'. At present there are 168 NIS, serving about
650,000 ha (of which about 25,000 ha of developed NIS area has been affected by
volcanic mud flows from Mt. Pinatubo since 1991). The National Irrigation
Administration (NIA), a government-owned corporation responsible for irrigation
development, builds, operates and maintains NIS. Three NIS are multi-purpose,
reservoir-backed systems: Magat, Upper Pampanga and Angat-Maasim, serving
about 230,000 ha. The remaining 165 NIS (serving, on the average, about 2,500
ha each) are run-of-the-river diversion systems. New NIS are expected to bring
about an additional 55,000 ha under irrigation by 1998. Farmers in NMS pay an
irrigation service fee (ISF).
b)    Communal Irrigation Systems (CIS). The CIS are small, mostly run-of-the-river
type, gravity systems, owned and operated by Irrigators' Associations (IAs).
There are about 6,200 CIS, averaging 115 ha, and serving about 730,000 ha.
Unlike the NIS, they are often built by water users without NIA assistance. When
NIA is involved, its role is limited to financial and technical assistance in the
planning and construction of physical works and development and training of the
IAs which own the systems and are responsible for their maintenance after
construction is completed. Farmers in the CIS are not charged irrigation fees, but
they amortize the chargeable costs of the irrigation investment.
c)    Pump-Lift Irrigation Systems (PISU. The PIS serve about 200,000 ha. Pump units
that cover a service area from 20 to 100 ha are operated and maintained by NIA at
the initial stage and are then turned over to the cooperatives. Smaller pump units
of less than 20 ha each are privately owned. The high cost of power has reduced
the overall financial attractiveness of the PIS for crops such as rice and has
constrained their firther expansion. In some areas, farmers' groups have asked
NIA to convert their PIS to run-of-the-river communal systems.



- 76 -
- 76 -                      ~~~~~~Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
The National Irrigation Administration
3.    The National Irrigation Administration (NIA), established in 1964, is a Government
corporation responsible for planning, constructing, operating, and maintaining all the NIS. NIA is
empowered to investigate and to study all national water resources for irrigation purposes; plan,
construct, temporarily administer and periodically repair the CIS and PIS; and to collect irrgation
fees from the NIS and recover chargeable construction costs from the CIS and PIS. NIA has also
the authority to undertake related projects (e.g. flood control, drainage, land reclanation, hydro-
power development, domestic water supply, road construction, and reforestation and other
activities to maintain ecological balance) in coordination with other agencies.
4.    As a semi-autonomous body under the Department of Agriculture (DA), NIA has
considerable operational freedom. NIA is a mature agency with its operation carried out through
a network of national, regional, and system-level offices throughout the country. It is adequately
staffed and, with the exception of some items, has sufficient construction and maintenance
equipment. At the regional level, NIA has 11 offices, each headed by a Regional Irrigation
Director, who reports to the NIA Administrator. There are some 100 irrigation system offices,
each responsible for one NIS or a cluster of NIS and headed by an Irrigation Superintendent.
Another 67 provincial irrigation offices, each headed by a Provincial Irrigation Engineer, and
responsible for CIS, are gradually being merged with the Regional offices. At present, NIA has
about 16,000 employees--approximately one-fifth are women. About 9,000 of these employees
are involved in development projects with which their employment is co-terminus. The remaining
7,000 are funded from the operating budget; of these, about 6,500 are in the field and about 500
at the headquarters. Some reduction in personnel is envisaged in the next few years under NIA's
streamlining plan.
Irrigators' Associations
5.    Over the years, NIA has developed a successful strategy of beneficiary participation by
establishing and maintaining irrigators' associations (IAs). In this respect, NIA is well ahead of
many irrigation authorities elsewhere, which are still attempting to identify effective techniques for
organizing farmers into water users' groups. It was NIA's experience that hardware inputs alone
did not materially improve the performance of irrigation systems in a sustainable manner.
Appropriate and equitable operation was often impossible as structural components required to
control the operation of the system were not only unappreciated by water users, but, because of
users' unawareness of their function, often damaged shortly after having been installed. NIA was
generally unable to satisfactorily maintain systems as O&M funds were always short and
deterioration reduced the flow of water that could be conveyed. In many irrigation systems,
downstream reaches were not served during water-scarce seasons as head-reach users refused to
reduce diversions and NIA was unable to impose an equitable sharing of the scarce resource.
6.    To address this situation, NMA, in 1976, launched an experimental program with the Ford
Foundation to test a strategy involving water users in all facets of irrigation development in some
communal systems. Naming it a 'participatory approach', it called for an active involvement of
water users in relevant decisions and activities starting at formulation and design of a system and
continuing throughout its operation. Encouraging results prompted NIA to extend the concept



- 77 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
throughout the entire CIS network, and nearly all CIS (larger than 100 ha) are now operated and
maintained through IAs.
7.    Since 1981 NIA has been applying the participatory approach to the NIS also. With the
objective of achieving an equitable, timely and appropriate water supply to all water users in a
given system, NIA has been advising and assisting water users to establish lAs and has provided
training and guidance after lAs have been established. Furthermore, NIA has provided IAs with
financial incentives such as contracted maintenance work and contracts for collection of ISF.
More recently, NIA has embarked on a more advanced participatory phase under which [As will
assume complete operational and maintenance responsibilities of components of systems directly
serving them (such as secondary or lateral systems or parts thereof) while NIA will redeploy its
staff to operate and maintain more complex parts of systems such as main canals and large
hydraulic structures. This approach, which will be supported under the project, is expected to
improve the performance of the systems and also reduce NIA's O&M costs by an estimated 10-
15%.
8.    As of December 1994, NIA had carried out IA organization activities over about 552,000
ha within the NIS (85% of the service area), comprising 1,829 lAs, with a membership of about
444,000 farm families. Each IA covers on the average an area of 270 ha and members' land
holdings are served by one lateral or common water source. A typical IA is registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and has an elected board of directors and a roster of
officers. Of the 1,829 lAs in different stages of formation as of December 1994, 1,778 were
registered with the SEC and 1,520 (covering about 433,000 ha) had entered into contractual
agreements with NIA for some O&M activities, ISF collection, or both (further details on the IA
development program are at Annex 8).
Support Services for Irrigated Agriculture
9.    Through 1991, the Department of Agriculture (DA) provided extension services to
lowland paddy farmers in most areas. However, under the Local Government Code of 1992,
extension services of DA were transferred to the Provincial and Municipal governments. Services
are also provided by input supply traders, colleges and universities, credit institutions and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs). In recent years, allocation to extension has declined as a
share of total expenditures for agriculture, and most of the expenditure has been directed towards
salaries and allowances, with little funding available for extension staff mobility and for the inputs
and facilities required for farm trials and demonstrations. As a result, most irrigation schemes do
not usually receive adequate attention from the extension services, and very few verification trials
and demonstration plots can be seen. NIA itself employs and trains Water Management
Technicians to assist farmers in using and maintaining irrigation systems efficiently. However, in
most areas there is little formal contact between NIA staff and the agricultural services personnel
of the DA and the Provincial and Municipal governments, although in some instances good
informal contacts have led to improved scheme performance. Agricultural support services are
being strengthened now under the DA's Grains Production Enhancement Program, which started
in 1993.



- 78 -                                Annex 2
Page 4 of6
Operational Performance of Irrigation Systems
10.   Although there has been a modest improvement in recent years, the performance of many
of the irrigation systems in the Philippines has been below expectations. Despite widespread
double cropping, in 1994 the irrigated cropping intensity in NIS was only 140%. In terms of
irrigated cropping intensities recorded to date, NIS reservoir systems had the highest at over
172%; and the NIS diversion systems, and communal and pump systems, about 130%. Due to
the over-assessment at the design stage of individual irrigation system service areas, it is difficult
to say at present whether the above irrigated cropping intensity figures are accurate. NIA is now
verifying and updating existing irrigation system service areas throughout the country through
parcellary mapping.
11.   Factors which have adversely affected the irrigation system performance include: the
highly variable and generally low dry season water supplies; deficient water management due to
institutional weaknesses of NIA and the IAs; insufficient water control structures to ensure timely
and equitable water supplies to all sections of the NIS; inadequate O&M funding; and inadequate
agricultural support services. Also, flood control and drainage were not given appropriate
emphasis during design of some of the older NIS. These problems are reflected in deteriorating
canals and structures, silted and defective diversion works, inadequate drainage and on-farm
facilities, and poorly maintained service roads. In an effort to address the above problems, the
First Irrigation Operations Support Project (IOSP I, Ln. 2948-PH) was launched in 1988,
followed by the IOSP II (Ln. 3607-PH) in 1993.
Irrigation Financing
12.   NIA does not finance investment projects from its own resources or loans. These are
financed by the Government using foreign loans/grants and counterpart local funds. NIA's
investment budget was P 2.6 billion in 1994 and P 3.6 billion in 1995, including about P 2.2 billion
and P 3.2 billion, respectively, under the General Appropriations Act. NIA, however, has to
finance its operating budget. This is financed principally from ISF collections, a 5% management
fee charged to the Government for the design and construction supervision of irrigation projects,
and rentals of construction equipment.  In 1994, NIA's total operating and non-operating
revenues amounted to about P 750 million. Of this, ISF collection accounted for about 50%,
management fees for 9%, equipment rental for 15%, and others for 26%, including amortization
from the CIS and interest on investment funds held on deposit. These revenues were insufficient
even to meet NIA's total operating expenses in 1994 of F 798 million (including irrigation O&M);
after allowing for depreciation of P 289 million, the net income was negative by P 336 million.
NIA's net income after depreciation has been negative for several years. This is a reflection of a
fast increase in operating expenses and a slower increase in revenues over the last few years.
While ISF collection has increased from P 57 million in 1982 to P 373 million in 1994, and
equipment rental from P 25 million to P 113 million during the same period, management fees
have declined from P 104 million to P 66 million as a result of a falling irrigation investment
program. If the investment remains at the 1995 level in the next few years, as it might, given the
financial constraints of the Government, NIA's net income before depreciation will be negative
through 1996, even if the ISF collection efficiency improves to 75% (see Annex 7 for further



- 79 -                                Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
details). NIA realizes its difficult financial situation and has already begun to implement
streamlining of its organization and staffing and reduce operating expenses.
13.   Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) and Collections. NIA has been authorized to charge ISF on
irrigated lands within NIS at levels sufficient to finance O&M and to recover the initial investment
cost (without interest) within a period of up to 25 years, provided that such charges are
considered by the Government, which approves ISF rates, to be within the capacity of the
beneficiaries to pay. Since 1975, irrigation fees have been denominated in paddy, and farmers
may pay either in kind or in cash based on the Government paddy support price (currently P 6/kg
for clean, dry paddy with 14% moisture content). About 50% of farmers presently pay in cash.
The denornination in paddy has provided a degree of indexation against inflation, but NIA has to
meet the costs of collecting, storing, selling and other related activities which could amount to
about 10%-15% of gross collections. The current ISF rates vary according to type of system,
and by wet and dry season, as shown in Table 1. These rates, which typically absorb 10-15% of
the incremental production from irrigation, are estimated to be within the payment capacity of
most water users.
Table 1: ISF RATES
Wet Season (WS)   Dry Season (DS)
--------Cavans of Paddy/ha--------
Type of System                                      (I Cavan = 50 kg)
Diversion Systems                             2.0          3.0
Reservoir-backed Systems                      2.5          3.5
Pump-lift Systems                          6.0 - 8.0    6.0 - 10.0
14.   Most farmers in irrigated areas are at or below the rural poverty threshold and thus an
increase in ISF rates would bear heavily on them. About 73% of these farmers cultivate I ha or
less, which at full development of the project would provide incomes ranging from only P 10,450
to P 20,900 (see para. 6.4 of SAR and Annex 17 for details). Even if an additional one-third of
the household income was derived from off-farm work, these farmers would still fall below the
1995 estimated poverty level for rural areas of P 48,200 p.a. for a family of six. Also, the average
rent recovery for project beneficiaries amounts to 33% and cost recovery at 47%, both figures
being relatively high for this type of project, compared to other developing countries. However,
there remains substantial scope for improvement in ISF collection efficiency which should first be
utilized. ISF collection performance has improved significantly over the years but was still only
62% of current billings in 1995 and covered about 66% of the total O&M expenditures on NIS.
Government Irrigation Subsector Strategy
15.   An Accelerated Irrigation Development Program was legislated in 1992. The program
envisages the development of about 1.5 million ha of new irrigation facilities over the next 10
years. An assessment of surface water resources conducted by the National Water Resources
Board, which took into account multiple water uses and power requirements to the year 2000,
indicates ample water availability in all except three regions. However, given the financial



- 80 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
constraints, and taking its past pace of construction into account, NIA believes that a 350,000 ha
target over the next 10 years is more realistic. While not ruling out a few new large-scale
irrigation and multipurpose projects, the Government's priority is on rehabilitation, communal
and small-scale irrigation schemes, and improved O&M, which will require smaller investments
but yield faster returns. Inadequate O&M allocations and unsatisfactory maintenance contributed
to system deterioration and disappointing system performance in the past, resulting in non-
achievement of full potential economic returns. Realizing this, the Government, through IOSP I
and II, has attempted to improve the efficiency of the irrigation infrastructure in pursuit of its
overall sectoral objectives.
The Bank's Role in Irrigation Development
16.   To date the Bank has lent US$859.0 million to the Philippines for 15 irrigation projects,
one land settlement and three rural development projects with irrigation components, and one
watershed management project. Thirteen of these projects have been completed. The two most
recent loans were for IOSP II (Ln. 3607-PH, approved in 1993) and the Second Communal
Irrigation Development Project (Ln. 3261-PH, approved in 1990). Bank-supported projects have
so far covered about 490,000 ha (including about 200,000 ha of new development and
rehabilitation/upgrading of the rest), benefitted some 290,000 families, and helped to produce
more than 2 million tons of paddy, or about 22% of total rice production and 30% of irrigated
rice production in the country.
17.  Implementation of completed and ongoing Bank-financed irrigation projects in the
Philippines has generally been satisfactory, although some operations have experienced delays
because of local funding constraints, design changes, contractor problems, or peace and order
difficulties. The shortage of local funds has been the most severe constraint. Project Completion
Reports and Project Performance Audit Reports prepared for completed projects indicate
implementation delays mainly on account of inadequate and delayed counterpart funding, lengthy
procurement procedures, poor performance of contractors, frequent typhoons, and shortages of
materials. In some cases, water availability was less than anticipated due in part to inadequate
hydrological assessment aggravated by past watershed deforestation, delivery inefficiency due to
inadequate O&M, and smaller than expected command areas. However, the reports state that,
despite these problems, and lower than expected ERRs, the projects have contributed to increases
in rice production and incomes in the project areas, and NIA's performance in fostering active
beneficiary participation in irrigation development is frequently commended.



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
Page I of 13
PH1LIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Formulation of
A Watershed Manaeement Strategv and Proeram
A. Background
1.    The Philippines has a total land area of about 30 million hectares, of which about
70% is officially considered watershed area. The mandate to manage it lies with the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), with co-management by the
local government units (LGUs). The watersheds comprise some 419 river basins (with
drainage areas ranging from 40 to 25,000 sq. km.), which supply the major water
requirements of several irrigation systems, hydro-electric dams and domestic as well as
industrial water systems. Eighteen are considered major river basins. Among the most
important are the Agno and the Cagayan River Basins in Northern Luzon, Pampanga
River Basin in Central Luzon, Ilog-Hilabangan in the Visayas, and the Cotabato and the
Agusan River Basins in the Mindanao Region. These river basins cover approximately 7
million hectares. To date, 119 watersheds with an aggregate area of 1.36 million ha have
been designated as "Watershed Reservations" through Presidential Proclamations. The
proclaimed watershed reservations were intended to be managed as protected areas, but
typically heavily encroached and subjected to slash and burn and other forms of
cultivation. As a consequence, about 90% of the proclaimed watershed reservations are
categorized as "hydrologically critical", implying degraded physical conditions and riskl to
downstream infrastructure. Most of the concerned area is publicly-owned (slopes greater
than 18%).
2.    Of the country's total estimated population of about 68 million, about 15-20%
live in the upland areas, with a significant number of people cultivating or occupying
portions of forest lands. Due to a rapidly increasing population and the growing demand
for land, farmers have moved to higher and steeper slopes in their search for new
agricultural lands. Forested lands, including watersheds, have been cleared and planted to
cash crops with little or no attention to soil and water conservation technologies. The
rapid transformation of the original vegetation of the Philippine forests, coupled with
inappropriate land use practices, has led to loss of biodiversity and disrupted the
hydrological condition of major watersheds, which has resulted in accelerated soil erosion,
siltation of rivers and reservoirs, increased incidence and severity of flooding, and
decreasing supply of potable water. These, in turn, have caused considerable reduction in
the productivity of the forest, agricultural lands and fisheries, with a consequent high
incidence of poverty in rural areas, particularly uplands, and decreased returns from major
investments in hydro-electric power and irrigation systems.



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 13
3.    To address these problems, the government has adopted policies for the
protection, conservation and development of watersheds which stipulate that: (a) all
upland watersheds shall be under the ownership and jurisdiction of the Philippine
Government; (b) the watersheds shall be managed under the concept of multi-use and
sustained yield; (c) the watersheds shall be managed to achieve and maintain
environmental quality; and (d) the natural resources in the Philippines, including watershed
resources, shall be managed with the participation of local communities.
4.    The Government has also launched several programs and projects for the
rehabilitation of degraded watersheds and/or protection of those still in good condition.
Among these are the National Forestation Program (with support from the ADB and
OECF), the Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Project (supported by
the World Bank), and several integrated area development projects in the uplands
supported by various multilateral and bilateral agencies. Furthermore, soil conservation
and watershed management is one of the major component programs of the Philippine
Master Plan for Forestry Development (MPFD). The MPFD recommended a DENR
policy shift of logging from the virgin forests to the residual forests, and the imposition of
logging ban in critical areas, namely: (a) areas with slope of 50% or more; (b) areas above
1,000 meter elevation; (c) areas proclaimed for ecological and environmental protection;
and (d) areas proclaimed for watershed reservations.
5.    However, these policies and programs/projects have not effectively addressed the
alarming rate of watershed degradation due to lack of a clear overall strategy, limited
financial resources, fragmented implementation responsibility, lack of properly trained
manpower, and increasing socio-economic pressure resulting from the rapid increase of
population in the uplands/forest lands where the vital watersheds are located. Further,
while there has been some progress in the country toward a broader concept that puts
some priority on the interests of the local population, watershed management is still
thought of mainly in terms of protection. A great deal of discussion and a clear, overall
strategy is needed to bring a wide range of stakeholders to a higher level of understanding
of, inter alia, the scope for multiple use of the watersheds, the downstream consequences
of accommodating the development needs of upland residents, and the role of forestry vis-
a-vis other land uses in affecting downstream water availability.
B. Obiectives and Scone of the Study
Objectives of the Study
6.    The overall objective of the study is to formulate a national watershed management
strategy and a long-term program of investments for the sustainable management of
watersheds, particularly those considered critical, and recommend appropriate policies,
and legislative and institutional measures, to implement the strategy and investment
program. The principal goal of a watershed management program for the Philippines is
the creation of an environmentally sound, sustainable, productive and equitable resource
utilization system. This approach explicitly recognizes watershed management as a multi-



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 13
dimensional problem that has physical, social, economic and institutional components.
Since population growth and poverty are the driving forces behind resource overuse and
degradation, people must be an integral part of any solution. The specific objective of the
study would, therefore, be to recommend a package that will help: (a) establish a sound
policy and legislative basis for watershed management in the country; (b) institutionalize
an effective and responsive administrative machinery and procedures for watershed
management and protection; (c) minimize and control accelerated soil erosion and improve
water yield and quality; (d) promote compatible land uses and enhance productivity; (e)
enhance economic opportunities for and environmental consciousness of watershed
communities; and (f) establish a National Watershed Information System in the DENR.
Scope of Work
7.    The study will be divided in three phases, which, in turn, will consist of several
tasks.  As detailed below, workshops/seminars and consultations with the relevant
stakeholders will be carried out during and after completion of some of the tasks and
phases.
Phase 1: Strategy Formulation
Task 1: Prioritization of Watersheds to be Managed. Given limited national
manpower and financial resources (public and private), it is necessary to identify critical
watersheds for targeting of resources. To accomplish this:
The study will first examine the current "Proclaimed Watershed Reservation" concept,
and then determnine whether "critical" watersheds should be defined as those which are
linked to existing or proposed downstream infrastructure facilities, such as hydro-
electric plants, irrigation systems, and domestic water systems, or a broader definition,
that describes the present biophysical condition of the area which also includes other
considerations such as floods, fisheries and reefs, severity of poverty in specific upland
areas, etc., should be adopted. The chosen definition will determine whether critical
watersheds for management would be selected from among the 119 proclaimed
watershed reservations, or from 18 major river basins, or all 419 river basins.
*  Based on the criteria determined above, prioritization of watersheds will be
undertaken. Both for the formulation of the criteria and the prioritization, extensive
review of the available nation-wide watershed data from remote sensing and other
sources will be undertaken, coupled with field verification visits to some watersheds,
which are considered to be critical but for which little data are available. The
preliminary list of critical watersheds may have to be modified later after more data are
available during the course of the study.
* The criteria for selection and the list of critical watersheds will be discussed with
various stakeholders in a workshop/seminar.



- 84 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 13
* From the list of critical watersheds identified above, 10 watersheds will be selected and
included in the preparation of management plans in Phase III of the study.
Task 2: Review of Policy and Legal Framework. This work will involve a
review of the existing environment within which watershed management programs and
projects are being undertaken:
*  Since watersheds are integrated physical, social and economic systems, planning must
take these various dimensions into account, and should be holistic and
interdisciplinary. The study will, therefore, specify the elements that should constitute
an integrated and comprehensive approach to watershed management.
*  In the light of the above, the study will critically review the existing policies on
watershed management (including forest products harvesting arrangements, and., if
considered significant, pricing and taxation of forestry products), the land tenure
instruments being used, the policy of proclaiming watersheds as watershed
reservations (whether to continue it), and various existing and proposed legislation,
particularly the Integrated Protected Areas law and the Forestry Code, which have
implications for watershed management, and recommend policy changes/reforms.
Task 3: Review of Watershed Programs and Projects. Various locally-funded
and extemally-supported programs and projects in watersheds using reforestation alone or
in combination with other vegetative and structural methods have been undertaken in the
country in the past and some are ongoing. Voluminous records on watershed-related
activities are also available with the Forest Management Bureau (formerly Bureau of
Forest Development), Ecosystems Research and Development Bureau (formerly Forest
Research Institute), and the University of the Philippines College of Forestry. These
records will be reviewed along with the major programs and projects, which will include
but will not be restricted to: the ongoing National Reforestation Program (supported by
ADB and OECF), the Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Project
(supported by the World Bank), the Integrated Social Forestry Program (devolved to the
local governments since 1992), the DENR's locally-funded watershed management
program, the locally-funded Small Water Impounding Management (SWIM) projects of
the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), Low-Income Upland
Communities Project (supported by ADB), Cebu Upland Project (supported by FRG),
Central Cordillera Agricultural Program (supported by EEC), and Highland Agricultural
Development Project (supported by ADB and IFAD); and the completed Central Visayas
Regional Project and Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project (both
supported by the World Bank). The major watershed management programs and projects
included in the Medium-Term Public Investment Program for the next five years will also
be reviewed. All significant programs and projects (completed, ongoing and planned) in
the priority watershed areas (Task 1) will be reviewed. During the review of completed
and ongoing programs and projects, the following issues will be specifically addressed in
order to draw appropriate lessons for the future:



- 85 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 13
* What were the achievements of the completed projects and have they been sustained?
If not, why?
* Was there any attempt to monitor and evaluate the socio-economic and bio-physical
impact of the completed projects?
* What watershed management methods have been or are being used? Were or are they
appropriate? Will they have a sustained impact?
* Is it more appropriate to place all watershed-related projects under the management of
one office?
* Were or are technical packages and adequate extension services available to achieve
the program/project objectives? What are the research gaps?
* What is the experience with cost per ha and per beneficiary? Given the cost level, are
there any replicable models?
Under this Task, the following will also be undertaken:
D Review of current procedures in the preparation of watershed management plans, and
recommendation for changes, if required.
- Review of current designs, specifications and cost estimates of various watershed
rehabilitation measures, including structural measures, and recommendation for
changes, if required.
Task 4: Institutional Issues. The study will critically review the institutional
responsibilities and capabilities of different government agencies involved in various
aspects of water and soil management. Although the DENR has overall jurisdiction over
the forests of the Philippines and is responsible for their protection, management,
regeneration and development, as well as for the conservation of the watersheds, other
government agencies including the National Power Corporation (NPC), Philippine
National Oil Company (PNOC), and National Irrigation Administration (NIA) are
involved in the management of watersheds which support hydropower, geothermal,
irrigation, flood control and other water-based projects.  The responsibility for the
management, protection, rehabilitation and development of these watersheds was
transferred from the DENR to the above agencies through Executive Orders/Letter of
Instruction. The LGUs are also involved in some watershed management activities,
particularly through the Integrated Social Forestry program, which was one of the
devolved responsibilities under the Local Government Code of 1991. The following
aspects will be special areas of emphasis of the study under Task 4:



- 86 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 13
* The institutional capability of the DENR, including its staffing at the central and field
level, and its internal incentives, to undertake the planning, implementation,
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of the long-term watershed management
program identified under Task 1 will be analyzed. Since it is unlikely that the DENR
alone will be able in the near future to undertake the entire national watershed
management program, the feasibility and desirability of delegating some responsibility
to other government agencies, particularly LGUs, will be examined. Moreover, since
part or most of the watershed management work could be done through NGOs, the
DENR's capacity to recruit, supervise and evaluate NGOs will also be analyzed.
Based on the above analysis, the future role of DENR in watershed management will
be specified (the detailed institutional strengthening proposals will be made in Phase
II).
*  The precise jurisdiction of the NPC (which manages 4 watersheds), PNOC (3
geothermal reservations), and NIA (2 watersheds) within the respective watershed
areas will be determined; the quality of management by these agencies in the respective
watersheds will be assessed; and, based on an analysis of their current and planned
institutional capacity, recommendations will be made for a reduction, expansion or
maintenance of their role in watershed management.
v  The institutional capability of LGUs, particularly in the watershed areas identified as
critical under Task 1, will be assessed. In this connection, the status of the Integrated
Social Forestry program, and its potential role, will be reviewed. Moreover, the
current and potential role of the Local Water Districts in the management of
watersheds supporting water districts will be reviewed. Based on the above analysis,
the future role of the LGUs and Local Water Districts in watershed management will
be clearly delineated.
*  The institutional capability of NGOs in mobilizing local communities and implementing
watershed management programs will be assessed, and the mechanism necessary to
enable NGOs to better provide the support to the national government agencies and
LGUs will be analyzed.
*  The current policy-making processes for watershed management will be reviewed. In
this regard, the current role of the National Water Resources Board, if any, will be
assessed, and future role, if any, will be recommended. The role and effectiveness of
Watershed Management Councils, which have been or are to be established for every
watershed forest reserve, will be also be assessed. Recommendations will be made for
establishing an appropriate institutional mechanism for overall national policy-making
for watershed management and for coordination of activities undertaken by different
government agencies, private entities, and local communities in watershed areas.
* The data bases relating to watersheds in DENR and other government agencies will be
reviewed and the need for a National Watershed Information System assessed.



- 87 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 13
* The current information and education campaigns for watershed management will be
assessed and the need for an expanded effort determined.
Task 5: Watershed Management Strategy. The findings and conclusions of the
four Tasks detailed above will be integrated and a national strategy for watershed
management will be developed. The strategy will, inter alia, specify the policy and
legislative framework required; respective roles of different government agencies, NGOs
and local communities and the institutional coordination mechanism; and the types of
interventions which have the best potential for sustainability. The proposed strategy will
be discussed with various stakeholders, and their views taken into account before
undertaking Phase II of the study.
Phase H: Watershed Management Program. In the light of the strategy
proposed under Phase I of the study, a long-term program of investments and institutional
strengthening will be developed under Phase II as follows:
Task 1: Long-Term Investment Program. An estimate will be made of the time
frame within which all watersheds currently considered critical or likely to become critical
in the near future (Task 1 of Phase I) could be adequately managed by various users and
agencies, and the investment requirements of the management program.  In this
connection, the estimates made for watershed management in the Philippines Master Plan
for Forestry Development will be reviewed, and updated, if necessary. All ongoing and
planned watershed-related projects and programs in the Medium-Term Public Investment
Program will be reviewed and recommendations made as to their priority and costs. An
indication will also be made whether and how much work should be done by the DENR in
the future on watershed characterization studies, and what methods should be used to
assess the extent of and potential for degradation of watersheds and its on-site and off-site
impact. Along this line, the watershed characterization procedure currently used in the
DENR will be reviewed and changes recommended, if necessary. A manual/guideline will
be developed and applied in Phase III.
Task 2: Institutional Strengthening Program. The long-term program will have
particular emphasis on the following:
*  Based on an in-depth institutional study of the DENR, proposals will be made
regarding the organizational location of watershed management responsibilities (after a
review of the current functions of the Watershed Management Section in the Forest
Management Bureau), staffing at the central and field levels, human resource
development to upgrade the technical and managerial capabilities of staff involved in
watershed management and conservation, and logistical support. Measures will also
be proposed for strengthening DENR's capacity to recruit, supervise and evaluate
NGOs.
*  Similar institutional strengthening proposals will be made for a sample of LGUs in the
critical watershed areas. The study will also specify what, if any, strengthening is



- 88-                           ANNEX3
Page 8 of 13
needed by NPC, PNOC, NIA and the Local Water Districts for watershed
management.
*  Recommendations will be made for strengthening extension and research for effective
watershed management and conservation, with emphasis on upland farming systems,
agroforestry/reforestation techniques, vegetation-water yield relationships, soil
stabilization measures, erosion rates under various land uses, planning with a view to
optimum land use allocation for watersheds, and socio-economic and
institutional/policy issues.
*  To help establish an effective monitoring and evaluation of both biophysical and socio-
economic aspects of watershed management programs, a National Watershed
Information System (NWIS) will be established. In the course of establishment of the
NWIS, the follwing will be detailed: the type of data/information to be collected,
stored and analyzed; methods of collecting data, including use of geographical
information system and any practical models for quantifying soil erosion; design of a
national data network, programming of data acquisition, and specification of national
standards to ensure data quality; and a mechanism for collection not only of watershed
data but also reports and publications related to watersheds. The data collected and
evaluated under Task 1 of Phase I will be utilized in the initial establishment of the
NWIS.
*  A plan for conducting a country-wide information and education campaign on
watershed management and conservation will be formulated.
* Estimated costs for the institutional strengthening program outlined above will be
presented.
Phase IH: Watershed Management Plans. Within the framework of the long-
term investment and institutional strengthening program developed under Tasks 1 and 2 of
Phase II, detailed management plans for a number of critical watersheds will be prepared
as the first phase of the program, to be packaged as one or a number of projects to be
implemented by the DENR, LGUs or other agencies and possibly supported by
multilateral or bilateral development institutions. The objectives of the project(s) will be
to develop and implement an integrated plan for the sustainable management of critical
watersheds, including participatory planning and implementation of sustainable forest
management by all resource users; devolution of responsibility for resource management
to local communities; provision of incentives to local communities in the form of secure
land tenure, improved upland farming systems, and expanded livelihood opportunities in
order to reduce pressures on watershed resources; and human resource development.
This Task will be undertaken in two stages: (a) site scoping and assessment; and (b)
detailed watershed improvement and management plan. These two stages are detailed
below.
(a) Site Scoping and Assessment. This work will mainly include:



- 89-                            ANNEX3
Page 9 of 13
* collection of baseline data and information on the physical as well as socio-economic
characteristics of the watershed: the physical data will include: location; topography
(slope, elevation and other features); climatic/hydrological data (rainfall, infiltration,
surface runoff, temperature, humidity, streamflow/discharge, drainage system, etc.);
soil physical and chemical properties, and areas subjected to various degrees of
erosion; geologic features in relation to soil and water; vegetation/forest cover; faunal
species, if any; land uses (e.g. pasture, upland agriculture, human settlement, forestry,
etc.); and water uses (irrigation, hydro-power, domestic use, etc.) with an indication of
water quality and quantity. The baseline physical data will be presented along with
appropriate graphs, tables and maps showing location, topography and slope, geology,
soil and soil erosion, hydrological features, vegetation, land use, location of water
structures, etc.   The  socio-economic  data  will include: socio-demographic
characteristics (total population and density, ethnic communities, age structure and
dependency ratio, household/family size, role of women, migratory patterns of
population, cultural and behavioral/motivational patterns, accessibility of the area and
the mode/types of transportation presently available, educational and medical services
available, community and social organizations present, and demographic projections
for the next 20 years); present level of income of the watershed residents; employment
patterns and unemployment or underemployment; and extent of awareness among the
watershed residents of the impacts of environmental and watershed degradation;
*  a detailed discussion of all activities contributing to soil and water conservation
problems in the watershed (including over-cutting of trees and over-
extraction/collection of other forest products, slash-and-burn agriculture and other
farming practices, over-grazing, application of organic and chemical fertilizers, mining
and other industries, road and other construction activities, etc.) and how these
activities adversely affect the downstream areas and the living conditions of the people
within the watershed; and identification (maps to be provided) of critical areas, on a
micro-watershed basis, which need immediate rehabilitation and improvement;
*  detailed studies of land tenure and customary rights of access to wood and non-wood
forest resources;
*  description and critical review of completed and ongoing development programs and
projects, if any, in the watershed area, and analysis of lessons learned; and description
of planned projects, if any, in the area; and
*  review and analysis of data and information collected, and preparation of a land use
plan, which will propose areas for protection/conservation, areas for production, and
areas for water resources conservation, and will provide the rationale for the proposal.
This plan will be fully discussed with the local communities and other stakeholders
before finalization.



- 9o -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 13
(b) Preparation of Detailed Management Plans. The detailed plans will clearly
indicate what differences in approach will be required for areas proposed for
protection/conservation as opposed to areas for production.
*  For areas to be protected/conserved, appropriate measures for site protection,
including demarcation of physical buffers (if appropriate) will be recommended, and
joint protection activities involving the protection agency and the affected buffer zone
villages on the outskirts of the conservation forest will be devised. The investment and
management plan for the protected areas will take into account the research,
biodiversity protection, and eco-tourism needs that have to be accomodated, and will
develop the framework and procedures to handle the population living within the
protected areas.
*  An indigenous people's development plan, where relevant, will be prepared which will
recommend an appropriate strategy for addressing indigenous people's concerns.
*  For both protection and production areas, land use plans will be developed for the
steeper slopes based on relevant technologies which can stabilize the vulnerable areas
and are consistent with the characteristics of the local communities.
*  The management plan will include details of the techniques for re-establishment of
forest/vegetative cover, including species selection, site preparation, planting
operation, cultural treatments, and maintenance; and proposals for soil and water
conservation, including vegetative measures, and engineering/structural measures such
as checkdams, water impounding and retarding structures, water channel improvement
and stabilization, etc.
* A plan to recharge groundwater and other water sources will be developed through
survey and mapping of recharge sites/basins, survey of water-bearing rocks/strata
(aquifers), recommendation on techniques to improve soil infiltration capacity for
augmenting groundwater resources, and recommendation on techniques to assess the
impact of land treatments and land use management schemes on the hydrologic and
ecological condition of the watershed.
*  Market surveys will be undertaken and improved upland farming systems and
sustainable income generating/livelihood options will be identified. In this regard,
existing technologies such as the Sloping Agricultural Land Technology (SALT) will
be critically reviewed for replicability, and improved crop, livestock, and agroforestry
extension packages, including recommended techniques for contour cultivation,
terracing, improved rotation, cover crops, etc. will be developed. Required inputs will
be estimated and possibilities of their financing analyzed, including the feasibility of
setting up community revolving funds.



- 91 -
ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 13
*  Infrastructure support proposals will be developed for access road improvement, small
scale irrigation, small shallow ponds construction, household water supply, and health
and education services.
*  Proposals will be made for more effective delivery of agricultural extension services
and research needs, if any, will be identified.
*  A human resource development program will be designed to upgrade the technical and
managerial capabilities of people involved in the management and conservation of the
watershed, and the program will, inter alia, include specific actions to benefit ethnic
minorities and women; ways to strengthen community organizations will be identified;
and detailed proposals will be made for an information, education and communication
(IEC) campaign to increase public awareness of the importance of watershed
protection and rehabilitation and ways to reduce environmental degradation.
*  The management plan will include the detailed estimates of costs and benefits; financial
and economic analysis; implementation arrangements, including the organizational and
management structure for coordination, and the role of local communities, NGOs, and
various government agencies; monitoring and evaluation arrangements; and an analysis
of the social desirability/acceptability and environmental impact of the proposed plan.
C. Study Team Composition. Duration and Time Input Reauired
8.    The study will be undertaken by a team of expatriate and national consultant;,
assisted by seconded staff from the DENR and other government agencies.  The
consultancy team will report to a Watershed Management Steering Committee composed
of the DENR (chair), Department of Agriculture, Department of Agrarian Reform,
National Economic and Development Authority, Department of Interior and Local
Government, NIA, NPC, PNOC, at least one LGU, and one representative from a
federation of NGOs, on all matters pertaining to the study. The consultants will fully
consult local communities and NGOs involved in the watershed area within a structured
participatory framework. The consultants' proposal will include a detailed strategy for the
implementation of consultations. The consultants' team is expected to include natural
resource   management  specialists,  natural  resource  economists,  ecologists,
sociologists/anthropologists,  community development and livelihood development
specialists, hydrologists, rural development and rural infrastructure specialists,
environmental specialists, women-in-development specialists, agronomists, agro-foresty
specialists, marketing specialists, land use planners, forest management specialists, and
management informationlgeographic information specialists. The consultants may also
include representative NGOs on their team to profit from their experience and to ensure
their active cooperation during the preparation and implementation of the watershed
management plans. The estimated duration and person-months required for the study are
detailed in Table 1. Phase III of the study will be the most time-consuming and expensive.
It is tentatively assumed that 10 management plans will be prepared under Phase III.
However, the number will be adjusted in the light of conclusions of the draft final report



- 92 -                                ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 13
on Task 1 of Phase I. The consultancy contract for Phase III will, therefore, be separate
from that for Phases I and II, and will be awarded (to the same or different consultants)
only after the completion of Task 1 of Phase I.
Table 1: Consultancy Tasks, Duration and Consultant--Months
Consultancy Tasks                Duration          Expatriate         National          Counterpart
(months)         Consultants        Consultants      Staff (months)
(months)          (months)
Phase I
Task 1: Prioritization of
Watersheds to be           3                  2                  6                  6
Managed
Task 2: Review of Policy and
Legal Framework             3                 2                  5                  5
Task 3: Review of Programs
and Projects               3                 2                  6                 10
Task 4: Institutional Issues
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    ~~~~3              2                  6                 4
Task 5: Watershed
Management                 2                  2                  2                  2
Strategy
Phase II
Task 1: Long-Term
Investment Program         2                  3                  4                  4
Task 2: Institutional
Strengthening              4                  8                  6                 4
Program                                                _
Phase III: Watershed
|Management Plans          24                 15                60                 150
(assuming 10
management plans)
D. Submission of ReDorts
Inception Report
9.     Within six weeks after the start of the study, the consultants' team  will submit
required number of copies of a short inception report containing the preliminary findings,
an analytical review of the available data, a list of legislation to be examined, a list of
completed and ongoing watershed-related programs and projects to be reviewed, detailed
work plan and methodology, mechanism and schedule of consultations with various
stakeholders, manning schedule, and timing of submission of progress, draft final and final
reports.



- 93 -
ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 13
Progress Reports
10.   Progress reports will be submitted in required number of copies only for the Phase
III (detailed watershed management plans), since this phase will be carried out over a two-
year period. For Phases I and II, which will comprise tasks of relatively short duration
(Table 1), progress reports will not be required.
Draft Final Reports
11.   Draft final reports will be submitted in required number of copies for individual
tasks in Phases I and II (unless proposed by the consultants to be combined for individual
phases and agreed at the Inception Report stage) and for individual management plans in
Phase III, one month before the respective completion dates.
Final Reports
12.   The final reports for individual tasks (or combined for phases, if agreed) and for
individual management plans will take into account the comments made on the draft final
reports and will be submitted in required number of copies by the respective completion
dates.



- 94 -                                Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Criteria for Selection of Systems for Improvement
Background
1.    For systems improvement and repair, the project continues the program approach adopted
under the IOSP II (Loan 3607-PH), which is under implementation. The strategy of the project as
well as IOSP II is to improve systems in which: (a) water resources are adequate to justify
improvements; (b) the need for improvements (or repairs) is technically and economically
justified; (c) water users want these improvements and are willing to contribute; and (d) there is a
reasonable chance that the improved, or repaired, system will be sustained because of the
involvement of water users from the start, their commitment to maintain the system, and
expressed readiness' to assume O&M responsibilities of "their" subsystem.2
2.    Accordingly, all NIS were screened and ranked based on technical, institutional and
economic criteria as follows:
Technical Criteria:
(a)   Adequacy of water resources at 80% exceedance to irrigate a larger area than that
presently irrigated. Clearly, if irrigated areas, particularly during dry seasons, already
use all available water resources effectively,3 or if the entire service area was already
irrigated, there would have been little justification for improving the system.
(b)   Completeness of hydrologic data: the analysis indicted above required continuous
and reliable hydrologic data of at least 8 years. Consequently, systems with shorter
hydrologic data were dropped during initial screening.
Institutional Criteria:
(c)   Beneficiaries would have to be organized for the effective operation of the IAs. This
criterion reflects the experience in NIS showing a close relationship between IA
management, degree of cooperation amongst IA members, experience in O&M,
financial status of an IA and the functioning of the irrigation system.
'In the form of a signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with NIA in which the Irrigators' Association
formally agrees to assume full operational and maintenance responsibility.
2 The subsystem could be either a lateral or a sublateral canal, that conveys water to the area in which the IA is
functioning.
3 That is, the overall water-use efficiency during critical periods was in the order of 45% or more, which is
considered normal for open, unlined, irrigation systems.



- 95-                                  Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
(d)  Beneficiary  lAs  would  have  to  commit  themselves  to  contribute  to
repairs/improvements and to properly maintain them after completion.4
(e)   Beneficiary IAs would have to commit themselves to assume full O&M responsibility
of  the   subsystem    directly   serving   them   following   completion   of
repairs/improvements. Such a commitment is consistent with the strategy of the
project to turn over the responsibility of operating and maintaining components of
the systems to capable and willing IAs.
Economic Criteria:
(f)   The economic selection criterion was that each system  selected for improvement
would have an economic rate of return of not less than 10%.
The Selection Process
3.     When preparation of IOSP II started, all 165 NIS existing at that time were initially
screened based on supply and demand of water, considering available water resources (rainfall and
river flow) and existing cropping patterns. Systems in which water resources were already
completely utilized or those with unavailable or deficient records were dropped and 61 systems
remained on the long list. This list was screened and ranked in accordance with the following
point system:
Adequacy of water supply .............................. 25%
Effectiveness of IA ..............................         10%
Commitment of IAs (and members) for O&M ......................... 40%
Economic viability .............................. 25%
4.     Of the 61 systems on the long list, NIA selected 35 systems and undertook their detailed
preparation. At appraisal of IOSP II, 18 of these systems were taken up for improvement. For the
rest, there were doubts about water availability, and, therefore, a hydrological re-assessment was
considered necessary. This was undertaken by a team of consultants in 1994 as part of
preparation of this project. The favorable results of the study led to the inclusion of 14 systems
for improvement under this project.
4 There have been too many instances in the past where improvements were not appreciated, not protected by water
users, and not maintained. The active involvement of water users in the identification, construction and
maintenance of improvements will hopefully change this experience.



- 96 -                                Annex 5
Page 1 of 10
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proforma for an
Irrigation Systems Improvement Plan
for National Irrigation Systems (NIS)
Identification Data
Name of NIS:    .       ......., Service Area: ........    ha.
Region: ........, River Basin: ......... , Type: .
Summary
1.    The summary will give concise information on the salient points brought out in the main
report concerning: (a) characteristics of water source for the NIS and the features of the system;
(b) justification for improvement of NIS under the project, considering: (i) the current status of
the system for conveyance of water and its equitable distribution, and (ii) the actual experience of
areas irrigated and efficiency of water use including identification of any special problems which
inhibit irrigating the full service area, or contribute to the low water use efficiency; (c) system
operation currently practiced and proposed for water management, planning of deliveries, issue of
operation plans to the field staff, and actual regulation of supplies; (d) current maintenance
arrangements, and maintenance plans after improvement; special problems (such as excessive
silting, damage from flooding, etc.); responsibility sharing between NIA and the UAs; and
sufficiency of funds; (e) present and proposed system for monitoring the effectiveness of the
system operation, by recording the supplies available at the source, water diverted to the system,
issues of water to each of the system offtakes and the crop areas irrigated, and analysis thereof for
efficiency of water use after each irrigation season; and the system for monitoring of the quality of
maintenance; and (f) main improvements proposed, both for the works and for the institutional
strengthening of NIA and the UAs; investment costs for the improvement of works;
implementation period anticipated; additional areas to be brought under irrigation; and estimated
economic rate of return. '
Tis prforma will be used to prepare an Irrigation Systems Improvement Plan to supplement the Program of
Work normally prepared by NIA for the system improvement of each NIS.



- 97 -
-~ 97 -Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
Main Report
2.    The main report will be prepared in sections, giving a clear picture of the current status of
the NIS, its weaknesses, improvement needs, and actions proposed to rectify the situation. These
sections are broadly indicated below, along with suggestions for the information to be presented
in each.
Section 1. Characteristics of the Water Source and System Features
3.    The section will be divided into the following sub-section: (a) water source; (b) irrigation
and drainage system works; (c) agricultural practices; and (d) institutional arrangements.
4.     Water Source.  The information for the water source has to basically confirm the
availability of sufficient water for the irrigation system, and the seriousness (if it be the case) of
the sediment problem, necessitating action under the project, by presenting:
(a)   for run-of-the-river systems:
-    catchment area of the source stream, at the location of the intake of the
NIS;
-     number of rain and stream gauges in the catchment and period of record;
-     average annual rainfall in the catchment;
-     10-day 80% availability stream flow at the intake;
-     maximum flood anticipated at the intake;
-     duration for high sediment load at the system intake during the flood
season; and
-     water requirements to be met from the stream slow, downstream of the
NMS intake, if a basin plan for water resources utilization exists, and
whether NWRB has made any allocation to NIS;
(b)   for storage based systems:
-     features of the storage dam, and status of dam safety based on available
reports (concerns, if any, to be highlighted);
-     experience of inflow into the reservoir as compared to the design inflow;
lowest, average, and maximum inflow received after storage commenced;
-     restrictions, if any, on the issues of water from the storage, for hydropower
generation, fisheries, or environmental requirements, and flow to be passed
downstream of the NIS for other requirements; and



- 98 -                                  Annex 5
Page 3 of 10
-      distance of the NIS intake from the dam (if the dam does not feed the NIS
directly), uncontrolled catchment area in between, and all the information
required in para (a) above, for the uncontrolled catchment, if significant;
(c)   for systems based on both storage and run-of-the-river:
-     information on the ratio in which the system supplies are received from the
two sources in the wet and dry seasons; and
-     information required under (a) and (b) above;
(d)   for rainfall in the service area:
number of rainfall stations within the service area, and the frequency of
their recording: and
-      80% reliability 10-day rainfall, for the various sections of the service area
(if large), otherwise for the entire area;
(e)   for runoff from drains: information as for (a) above, in case any major stream is
draining the service area; and
(f)    for quality water: information on quality water at the system intake and in the
drains for re-use for irrigation.
5.    Irrigation and Drainage System Works. The sub-section should provide the following
information:
-     Irrigation network (to be given as line diagram  showing all the locations of
drainage crossings, turnouts, and check structures on main canal, laterals, and
sublaterals) with design discharge and service area of each; the drains passing
through the service area, and any diversions from the drains for irrigation; and
systems monitoring and control stations for water management; and
-     Main features of the diversion structure, pump station, or intake on the river.
6.    Agricultural Practices.  The sub-section should bring out the status of agricultural
development in the current service area, as well as in the area where irrigation is to be restored, by
providing the following information:
topography and types of soils; and extent and location of flooding (if occurring)
due to excess rainfall (within the service area), insufficient drainage, or high water
levels during floods passing down the adjacent rivers or major drains causing
overflow of the banks;
land holding patterns, land tenure, and status of land parceling to match the
irrigation network;



- 99 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
-     main crops grown, cropping calendar and the agricultural practices followed; areas
actually irrigated during at least last five years and yields of crops on irrigated area;
-     agricultural support programs, availability of inputs, credit and marketing facilities;
-     agricultural extension and other training programs on-going at the NIS; and
-     the past trend in the change (if any) of cropping patterns and cropping calendars;
plans for future development, including the possibility of growing non-paddy crops
on lands not suitable/marginally suitable for paddy cultivation; and constraints to
increase in production, or issues needing attention.
7.    Institutional Arrangements.   The institutional arrangements, including sharing of
responsibility, should be described for both NIA and the lAs, and, in particular, the following
information should be provided:
setup of NIA staff for the NIS (regular staff and temporary staff for specific jobs);
number of beneficiaries, number of TSAs and IAs (how linked to the laterals or
main canals), membership percentages, types of contracts with NIA, future
outlook for irrigation and other activities, and responsibilities for O&M; and
ISF collection efficiency for the past few years and the present.
Section 2. System Status for Conveyance and Operation Control
8.    The present status of the system should be detailed to convey an idea of the degree of
success being obtained in meeting the irrigation requirements with efficient water use, including
the identification of the system weaknesses, which should justify the priority for improvement
measures. The following information should be provided:
9.    Irrigated Areas Shortfall. The extent of shortfall, the location of the areas remaining
unirrigated year after year, and causes therefor should be explained as follows:
-     a tabular statement for at least one wet and one dry season irrigation for each
lateral, and direct turnouts on the main canal, giving the actual crop areas and the
volume of water supplied;
-     analysis of the unirrigated area indicating: (i) what portion thereof can be brought
under irrigation by just improving the system for capacity and controls (ii) what
portion would need improvement of existing drainage channels (if flooding, due to
rainfall excess, inhibits cropping in the wet season) and restoration of the unused
irrigation channels; and (iii) what area is wrongly included (being mostly flooded
by the adjacent streams in the flood season, or for other reasons) in the service
area and should be deleted. Also indicate if there are areas (outside, but adjacent,



- 100 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 10
to the service area) which can be irrigated, by short extension of the system, if
water be available; and
-     the incremental irrigated areas expected with system improvement (on the basis of
above analysis) should be shown separately for areas resulting from: (i) improved
efficiency of water use; (ii) drainage of the flood-prone area; (iii)
improvement/repair of the irrigation system; and (iv) irrigation from return flow.
10.   Works Deficiency. The description would bring out the damages to the system requiring
repairs, separately from the needs for improvement of system performance, by giving the
following information:
situation of freeboard in the banks and silting of the canals;
tabular statement for the condition of the regulating, measurement, and control
structures for performing their functions, and the need for additional structures,
specially for controlling water levels in the parent channels (examine where
improved types, requiring lesser operation of the gates, could be fitted in without
requiring major changes);
description of the tumout controls for delivery of water to field channels (water
courses), desirability of changes therein, and acceptance of the farmers of such
changes to assure their cooperation in enforcing the regulation orders for the issue
of supplies from the tumouts;
situation of the existing carrying capacity of the drains for the service area,
specially in areas where rainfall excess causes flooding and also where drains are
used to convey irrigation supplies, and arrangements for monitoring the discharges
of the drains, existing reuse of drainage flows for irrigation, and possibility of
extending such use;
condition of service roads along the canals, surface or other improvement needed
to assure good access to all the sections of the system for operation and
maintenance, also examining the need, in special cases, of connecting the service
roads to other roads for easier movement of farm produce; and
condition of the communication facilities for transmission of information for
operation control and recorded data for the irrigation deliveries.
Section 3. System Operation: Current Practice and Improved Operations Plan
11.   The section should narrate the existing methodology for the preparation of system's
operation plan for each irrigation season, its implementation, and problems encountered, and
detail the operation plan to be adopted after system improvement, providing at least the following:



- 101 -                               Annex 5
Page 6 of 10
12.   Operation Plans.  Provide short descriptions of (a) current water delivery practices
(continuous or rotational supply, rotation interval, and points of rotation) upto the point of NIA
control, in normal and dry years, and during rains in the service area; (b) current water
distribution practices in the TSA or in the area managed by an IA; and (c) main operation
problems/issues faced by NIA, and amongst the water use efficiency. These descriptions are to be
supported by answers to the following questions and clarifications:
-     do regulation orders exist for closing the system at the intake for specific flood
levels in the source stream? Are the gates of the diversion structure on the stream
and the gates at the intake of the system operational to permit the implementation
of these orders? If not, will these be rectified under the project or under some
other funding?
at what interval are the rating curves/tables checked for applicability, in cases
where the delivery of water is controlled by the gauges of water level?
duration for which operation plans are prepared, how are the plans transmitted to
the operators controlling the deliveries, system of checks exercised on actual
deliveries by the operators to various laterals and receipt of water by the farmers,
and involvement of water users in the operation policy decisions, as well as in
actual operation;
what water use efficiencies are used in the Operation Plan, and how these
compare with the actual achieved? Were these efficiencies revised on the basis of
actual experience? If so, give changes made. What efficiency is considered
achievable after the proposed system improvement? Could the systems be
improved to achieve the efficiencies of 45% in wet and 50% in the dry season?
work out the discharge requirement under the improved situation (larger irrgated
area, but higher achievable efficiencies), 80% probability rainfall in the service
area, and compare the requirement at the system intake with the anticipated
supplies at 80% exceedance. If the supplies are not available at the source, work
out what areas could be irrigated from the available supplies, and indicate how
unirrigated area will be rotated yearly for equity;
organizational setup and actual operation responsibilities of NIA and the lAs,
problems encountered, sufficiency of the structures for controlling the issue of
water according to the operation plan, and of the measurement devices, as well as
the cooperation of the farmers in observing the agreed cropping timetable. Since
water management to achieve improved efficiency would necessarily involve
reduction of supplies to some of the sections which have become used to
abundant supplies, it may be explained how the cooperation of these farmers will
be assured;
action taken to maximize the use of rainfall; whether all gates on the offlakes and
cross regulators (check structures) on the canals can be closed to store the water



- 102 -                              Annex 5
Page 7 of 10
in the canals, to cut down on transmission time when canals are run again and to
avoid the waste of water;
improvements needed for achieving higher water use efficiency, such as: (a) better
preparation of operation plans; and (b) additional control structures for control of
water level in the canals for implementation of the operation plans, including
examination of the possibility of constructing improved regulating structures
requiring minimum operation of gates; and
approximate assessment of operational cost alone (out of total O&M  cost),
possibility of its reduction, or need for increase to achieve higher water use
efficiency.
Section 4. System Maintenance
13.   The section should provide information for the maintenance facilities available, the
organizational setup and responsibilities, and the availability of funds, as well as prepare a
maintenance program for the improved system, the main points being:
-     nature of maintenance requirements: are there any special items to attend (typhoon
damages, etc.) or items of work needing more than normal attention? Is there an
overall maintenance plan outlining the work load (set of jobs) and the frequency at
which each job is to be performed? What are the annual obligatory desilting
requirements to assure the system conveyance capacities, requirements for repair
to the repeated damage to canal banks from the uncontrolled overland flow during
rains or due to other causes?
identify which maintenance requirement has suffered continuously due to the
shortage of funds, and its effect on system performance: examine if the revision of
maintenance procedures could reduce funding requirements, and propose other
measures for assuring the full maintenance;
maintenance equipment available at the system, and the number of machine-hours
used annually (separately for maintenance and for any work outside the system),
availability of permanent operating personnel, percentage of maintenance work
(value) carried out by machines, arrangements for running and major repairs, and
timely availability of spare parts; examine the desirability of maintaining the
equipment at the NIS, compared to other cost effective alternatives;
types of maintenance work carried out on contract with IA or contractors, and
approximate percentage of such works (value) on the total maintenance costs;
organizational setup for maintenance including responsibilities of NIA and IA;
funds received for maintenance in a particular year from all sources of funding;
process adopted for the preparation of the maintenance plan for the year, and



- 103 -                               Annex 5
Page 8 of 10
actual %ages of funds utilized for salaries of the personnel, and for actual
maintenance of works;
changes in the organizational setup and sharing of the maintenance responsibilities,
to improve the maintenance and reduce requirement of funds by transferring
responsibilities to the IAs, possibilities of contracting out more work to
contractors or IAs; and
procedures for obtaining assurances from the users that the improved system will
not be damaged, and proper maintenance will be carried out for the works
designated as IA's responsibility; including readiness to contribute to repairs and
maintenance.
Section 5. Monitoring of System Operation and Maintenance
14.   The section would deal mainly with the system in place for current monitoring and if
changes are proposed after system improvement. Monitoring is to assure that the different canals
of the system are run at the discharges specified under the Operation Plan for the season, and to
check on the efficiency of the system maintenance. The following points would need attention:
15.   Monitoring of System Operation. This will describe briefly how the deliveries to the
various canals are checked, how records of the deliveries are maintained and how the data
collected is analyzed for the efficiency of water use. The main points to be covered are:
-     what information, pertaining to irrigation water use and outflow in the drains, is
recorded by the field staff daily? Does anyone check the recorded information? If
so at what interval? Where are these records compiled and analyzed?
-     what reports are submitted? Are the proformae for these reports satisfactory to
provide the required management information?
-     how users participate or cooperate in the monitoring process? Proposals for an
increased role of users in monitoring; and
-     proposals for future effective monitoring, which will cover all the above aspects.
16.   Agricultural Monitoring. The agricultural monitoring, reported to be carried out by the
DA, should be briefly described for the methodology used and the information collected, specially
how the yields are determined to establish the benefited area which forms the basis of the ISF
bills.
Section 6. System and Institutional Improvements Sought and Measures Proposed
17.   The report will bring out what additional area (compared to the actual irrigation of
previous years) will be irrigated in each season by laterals, as a result of the improvement
measures, providing the following infornation:



- 104 -                              Annex 5
Page 9 of 10
18.  Improvement Measures for Works. These measures (finalized with the participation of
the lAs in the planning and decision making process) have to necessarily include the repairs of the
damages to the structures and the additional needs for improving the system performance,
comprising:
-     desilting of the canals, and restoring the canal banks to full section, to have the
system conveyance capacity filly restored;
-     provision of new sediment control structures to reduce the entry of sediment into
the canal intake, or eject it from the canal should the problem be serious enough,
and it be economically justified;
-     reduction of seepage losses by lining of the canals (tabulate identified reaches for
high water losses);
-     protecting specific reaches of the canal section from damage due to floods;
repairs of all the regulating (check structures across canals) and control (laterals
and turnout discharge) structures, including replacement of broken gates and
hoists, and replacement of existing check structures by long-crest (duck bill)
regulators;
provision of new long-crest (duck bill) regulating structures;
resectioning of the drainage canals, and improvement of check structures thereon,
and introducing additional such structures and link canals therefrom, also installing
measuring devices; and
improvement of service roads along the canals.
19.   Implementation Schedule. The implementation of the system improvement will be
planned by sections of the system; each section comprising the entire network of the sublaterals,
laterals, and the portion of main canal conveying water to the section. Once works are started in
any section, these should continue to be executed till completion of all works to avoid going to
the section again. The POW will give a chart showing when the works in each identified section
of NIS will commence and period for completion. Based on this schedule, the quantities of work
to be executed in each working season will be estimated. The manner of execution of these
quantities (whether by NIA force account, contracts with IAs, or contracts with the contractors)
will be indicated.
20.   Equipment Neededfor System Improvement. The POW will provide a statement of total
equipment and equipment maintenance and repair facilities available at NIS (Information needed
in Section 4 should be given here and para 6.03 referred to in Section 4). Based on the
implementation schedule and work planned by NIA force account, the total equipment required
for both annual maintenance and system improvement will be worked out, and the need for repair
of equipment under A-2 category will be determined. Wherever the requirements are greater than



- 105 -                               Annex 5
Page 10 of 10
the equipment in A-I and A-2 (after repairs) available at NIS, NIA will explore the possibility of
transferring more equipment to NIS from the Regional or Central Pool.
21.   Institutional Strengthening.   The proposals for improvement will consider the
shortcomings of the existing arrangements, specially for an increased role of the water users, and
the turnover of the O&M of the systems as a whole or portions thereof, and will include necessary
training proposals.
22.   Quantities of Work and Cost Estimates. The quantities of the main items of work, cost
estimates, implementation schedules and yearly breakdown of the investment, will be given in a
summary form. Any requirements of the users contributing to the construction cost will be
indicated, including the procedure to be adopted to obtain their concurrence.
23.   Benefits from Investments and Rate of Return. The benefits, through incremental
production, will be presented by comparing the pre and post project situation. The incremental
area (para 2.01) contributed by: (a) improvement of system for higher water use efficiency, (b)
improved drainage, or (c) additional check structures will be considered separately for the pre
and post project situation. The economic rate of return will be calculated.



- 106 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Activities Under Svstem Improvement
1.    The system improvement will have the objective of generating additional irrigation
within the service area of each NIS selected for improvement under the project, by
increasing the efficiency of the use of available water and assuring its equitable
distribution, as well as reducing the flooding of the low-lying lands by improvement of
drainage. The higher efficiency of water use and its equitable distribution will be achieved
by: (i) improving the irrigation network; and (ii) introduction of good water management.
2.    Improvement of the Irrization Network.   This will include the following
activities:
(a) rehabilitating the control gates of the undersluices and canal head regulators at the
diversion structure on the river and carrying out other improvements to assure the
diversion of the available river supplies to the canal as needed;
(b) improving the existing and constructing new check structures on the drains in the
service area to divert the flow in the drains, received from their own catchments or from
the return flow from the upper irrigated areas, to irrigate the lower lands in the service
area;
(c) improving the irrigation network (resectioning for the discharge requirement based on
the cropping calendar, desilting, strengthening banks, and repairing damaged structures) to
assure the carrying capacity with minimum transmission losses (may require lining of canal
reaches where seepage losses are established to be high) to deliver the full quantity of
water to each section of the service area, and provide sufficient regulation and control
structures to implement good water management (for this purpose, the gates on the heads
of the laterals and at the tumouts will be made fully operational, and water level in the
canals maintained by introducing new long-crested regulating structures to the extent
possible and assuring the operation of the existing check structure gates); and
(d) providing sediment exclusion/ejection structures, wherever sediment problem is acute,
to assure the availability of the full canal capacity during an irrigation season.
3.    Introduction of Good Water Manafement. This will involve improving the
water distribution on the irrigation network and assuring the cooperation of the IAs in the
distribution of water beyond the tumouts or on the laterals which may be taken over by
them for O&M. The activities will include:



- 107 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
(a)  reviewing with the lAs the cropping calendar for possible changes
(substitution of crops, specially during the dry season; delaying or bringing forward the
land preparation or sowing period, etc.) to obtain a better match of the rainfall, river
supplies available for irrigation, and the water demand of the irrigated crops;
(b) arranging IA's cooperation so that the farmers rigidly follow the agreed
revised cropping calendar to avoid the dislocation of the plan of operation of the network;
(c) improving (instituting if it does not exist) a system of collecting information
and its transmission (facilities for transmission to be provided if not available) to the
operational control center from each section of the service area, relating to the status of
cultivation and rainfall, at regular intervals to facilitate system operation;
(d) introducing a system of operational controls and monitoring for assuring water
distribution on the network according to demand;
(e) organizing LAs to distribute water equitably to all the farmers on a tumout or a
lateral (if IA controlled) either through rotational irrigation (if the farmers prefer a bigger
stream to irrigate their farmns) or a continuous supply. The IA will ensure that no over
irrigation is carried out and that: (i) the control gates are opened and closed at the
specified time, and (ii) farmers maintain field channels to convey water from the tumout to
the farms and do not resort to field-to-field irrigation;
(f) agreeing with the IA, in situations of water shortage (this occurs in most NIS
in the dry season), the pattern of irrigated cropping which would result in good water use
and ensure equity;
(g) establishing a system of recording the deliveries at the heads of the system
network, lateral canals, tumouts, and the reuse check structure; monitoring that such
record is maintained; and analyzing water use by sections, for each crop season, to identify
where the water use was excessive or short of requirements, and to plan remedial
measures in the next season;
(h) improving service roads along the canals for effective O&M; and
(i) assuring proper funding for the O&M by NIA or transferring the channels to
IAs and insisting on agreed maintenance.



- 108 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 27
PHILIPPINES
Water Resources Development Proiect (WRDP)
NIA's Accountin! System and Financial Performance
L. ORGANIZATIONAL ASPECTS
Central Office
1.    At the Central Office (CO) the direct responsibility for administering the operations of the
Accounting and Finance Sectors rests with an Assistant Administrator, who is assisted by
Managers that are, in turn, responsible for overseeing the day-to-day operations of their
respective Departments, namely Treasury, Controllers and the Management Services
2.    The Management Services Department (MSD) is responsible for conducting studies
related to utilization of manpower resources and undertakes management audits of the various
responsibility centers to ensure compliance with established internal control procedures.
Field Offices
3.    The accounting system is decentralized, with the Regional Offices (ROs) preparing the
trial balances based on the information provided by the Provincial Irrigation Offices (PIOs) and
the National Irrigation Systems Offices (NISOs).
The Proposed Reorganization
4.    In compliance with recent directives from the Government to reduce staff strength, NIA is
expected to streamline its organizational structure. Although the reorganization plan has yet to be
approved, the tentative proposal is to reduce the total number of sectors from four to three, and
the total number of monthly paid staff (as of Oct '95) on the budget from 6,942 to 5,014 by end of
1997. There would also be a corresponding reduction of the daily staff to 500 '. Under the
reorganization plan, the Finance and Accounts, and the Administration Sectors would be merged,
all under the direct control of one Assistant Administrator who will be responsible for overseeing
the day-to-day operations of two separate Departments: Administration and Finance.
The actual number of daily staff is uncertain The field offices have reported a total of 2,274 as of October 1995 but
the actual payments made translate into the equivalent of 620 staff on the payml. The only possible explnation is
that not aU daily staff are hired every day, and some required to take leave. These figures need to be reconciled. The
Human Resources Division will, in future, require all field offices to report the number of daily staff on the payroll
and the amounts paid to them.



- 109 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 27
IL THE ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
Accounts
5.    The accounting system was decentralized in the late 1980s. The CO handles only the Head
Office transactions, leaving the recording of all other transactions to the regional and the field
level offices. The regional and project offices maintain their own books and the month-end trial
balances are prepared at the RO. All trial balances and the required schedules are submitted to the
CO monthly for consolidation.
6.    Computerization. NIA is currently using DEC-VAX machine, which is now totally shut
down, and microcomputers. Data entry and the processing of the computerized systems for the
DEC-VAX machine is done at the CO's computer center. Even when the system was operational
there were difficulties in accessing the computer as only four of the twelve terminals connected to
the DEC-VAX system were functioning.
7.    Each RO is provided with one microcomputer but these machines are mostly used for
billing or spreadsheet/word processing applications. Data entry at the ROs is done manually, and
although some reports are prepared using spreadsheets, not all staff are fully conversant with the
use of the software installed.
8.    All systems maintained in the DEC-VAX system are customized and developed in-house.
The existing systems related to accounting include the general ledger and the payroll, but not the
subsidiary ledgers which are posted manually.
Accounting Policies
9.    NIA follows the following accounting policies:
(a)   Fixed assets are recorded at cost and repairs that prolong the life of the assets are
capitalized.
(b)   Depreciation is computed on a straight line basis, based on the book value of a
group of assets rather than the value of the individual assets.
(c)   Allowance for bad debts is maintained at 2% of the receivables outstanding at the
end of the year.
(d)   Trade income is recognized on a cash basis and receivables are recorded once the
service is rendered, but the income is recognized only when the cash is collected.
(e)   Loan amortization and equity payments are recognized as income rather than
reduction of an asset. Similarly, NIA recognizes the entire proceeds from the sale



- 110 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 27
of an asset as income rather than the difference between the book value and the
sale price.
m. FINANCIAL CONDITION
Present Situation
10.   A number of recurring problems, arising both from operational and policy considerations,
make it difficult to fully comprehend NIA's financial condition. Operationally, a clear picture
regarding NIA's finances does not emerge, in part because of lack of uniformity in recording
entries or failure to specify procedures in making them. For example, the lack of clearly stated
procedures in transferring records from the work-in-process accounts to the appropriate accounts
contributes to overstatement of the work-in-progress accounts with resultant understatement of
the amount charged to depreciation. Thus, a significant proportion of the assets reported in the
1994 accounts (36%) remain classified as being "in-progress", whereas the actual picture may be
different. This basic problem is further exacerbated by a number of other factors, which inter alia
include the following.
(a)   Lack of supporting documents to reconcile accounts some of which were
transferred from NIA's predecessor agencies. These accounts have been carried
forward without appropriate adjustments.
(b)   Lack of reconciliation between physical and book inventory.
(c)   Unreconciled cash accounts, in part because of changes in accounting procedures
when the accounts were decentralized to the field offices and the supporting
documents were either not provided or were misplaced.
11.   From a policy point of view a number of accounting practices followed by NIA are
questionable. For example, the CIS amortization payments are recorded as income without
corresponding adjustment to the loans outstanding accounts -- a practice which overstates both
the assets recorded in the balance sheets and the income since the amortization payments are the
repayment of a loan rather than income. Similarly, the entire proceeds from the sale of an asset
sold are recognized as income instead of the difference between the sale price and the book value.
Other important factors which raise doubts about the validity of the accounts in reflecting NIA's
true financial condition and performance are: (a) the practice of calculating depreciation on gross
book value of all items rather than on individual items; and (b) inadequate provision for bad debts.
With respect to the latter, the cumulative provision made by December 31, 1993 stood at only
P80 million; in contrast, as of the same date, NIA's accounts reflected total receivables on the
Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) account alone at P2.8 billion (on an unadjusted basis), of which
some P2.3 billion was more than one year past due.



- 111 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 27
12.   Because of all the accounting problems outlined above, any conventional analysis of NIA's
balance sheet would be distorted. Two aspects of the accounting practices followed illustrate this
point: (a) as of December 31, 1993 the current assets reflect an accounts receivable of P4.0
billion, implying that NIA has considerable liquid resources. In reality, including overdues on the
amortization accounts over P3.0 billion are more than one year past due (on an adjusted basis)
and, therefore, not strictly current; (b) while it appears that NIA has significant reserves in cash
(P2.2 billion, or 33% of current assets), the reality is otherwise as over 90% of these funds reflect
budgetary allocations received for development and rehabilitation of irrigation schemes rather
than resources available to NIA. As these funds were received at the close of the fiscal year (FY),
they remained unexpended. NIA continues to face liquidity problems as collections from ISF and
amortization are inadequate to meet its operating expenditures.
13.   In broad terms, however, NIA's audited balance sheet as of Dec 31, 1994 (Table 1)
reflects total assets of P33.6 billion, of which P6.8 billion (or 20% of total assets were prima facie
in current assets, and P26.8 billion (80%) in fixed assets comprising work in progress, land and
buildings and irrigation schemes that have been recognized as being completed and are shown in
the accounts as being in Held in Trust.
14.   On the liability side, the picture as of December 31, 1994 was as follows. In the items
classified as current liabilities, the accounts indicate Trust liabilities of P3.0 billion (irrigation
schemes developed for which funds are received from the Government and held by NIA in Trust),
deferred credits to income (P3.9 billion, or 11.6%, mostly in unrealized receivables), long term
development loans (P7.2 billion, or 21.4% of total assets), with the balance P19.6 billion in equity
(58%), some 5.9 billion of which reflects smallholder schemes developed and held in Trust that
have now been converted to NIA's equity. It is difficult to fully evaluate NIA's debt to equity
structure, given the movements in Trust liability accounts, some of which are classified as equity
and the others, prior to completion, as trust liabilities. Moreover, NIA reflects some P7.2 billion in
long-term liabilities, which it questions, and which it cannot repay.
Financial Performance
15.   NIA's detailed P&L accounts, for FY 1990 through 1994, are given in Table 2 and the
summarized accounts for the last three years, analyzed by the essential categories, are given in
Table 3.
16.   NIA has four major sources of revenues; ISF collections, loan repayments, equipment
rental and management fees. ISF is by far the most important, accounting for about 50% of
revenues. In 1994 management fees provided for about 9% of revenues and equipment rental
about 15%. Loan repayments (principal payments on CIS and pump irrigation schemes)
accounted for only 7% of revenues.



PHILIPPINES
Water Resources Development Project
National Irrigation Administration
Table 1. Comparative Balance Sheet as of Decmeber 31, 1990-1994
(In Million Pesos I
A    U    D    I   T    E    D
1990             1991             1992              1993             1994
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash                                                            12.414          271.337         1,103.720          882.418        2.290.461
Short-Term Investments                                          26.880           26.474           25.918            25.918            0.000
Receivables                                                  3,437.590        4,333.726         4,886.510        4,005.898        4,238.186
Inventories INet of Inventory Variance)                        152.240          230.568          249.241           248.384          262.771
Total Current Assets                                         3,629.124        4,862.105        6.265.389         5,162.618        6,791.418
LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS:                                           12.010            11.361           11.327           11.366            11.366
FIXED ASSETS:
Land and Land Improvements                                   6,344.276        7,768.586         7,786.145        7,812.513        7,797.008
Buildings and Structures                                       223.018          227.004          230.580           240.055          241.420 I
Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment                              664.150          665.849          638.834           636.437          654.780,_,
In-Process/Transit                                          13,880.872       12,800.000        12.496.516       12,442.232       12,348.491
Held in Trust                                                  687.725        2,397.734        4.026.209         5,566.948        7,395.755
Total Fixed Assets                                          21,800.041       23,859.173       25,178.284        26,698.185       28,437.454
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                              886.114           925.561          958.961          995.700         1.546.582
Net Book Value                                              20.913.927       22,933.612       24,219.323        25,702.485       26,890.872
OTHER ASSETS
Miscellaneous Assets and
Deferred Charges                                            152.313          175.269          191.374           196.207         (148.854)
Contingent Assets                                            13.424           13.743            13.852           15.189           41.634
Total Other Assets                                             165.737          189.012          205.226          211.396          (107.220)
TOTAL  ASSETS                                               24720.798          27996.09        30701.265        31087.865        33586.436
lb 
Lid 
(DA
tn
0
Page 1



PHILIPPINES
Water Resources Development Project
National Irrigation Administration
Table 1 (Cont'd.): Comparative Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1990-1994
(In Million Pesos )
A    U    D   I   T   E   D
1990     1      1991      1      1992     1      1993      1      1994
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Accounts Payable                                             12.526          13.784           19.516        (215.888i        (248.204)
Depository Liabilities                                       16.972          20.275           23.459          26.637           27.823
Trust Liabilities                                         1,993.252        2,935.666       3,904.819        2,728.603       3,062.802
Total Current Liabilities                                 2,022.750       2.969.725        3,947.794        2,539.252       2,842.421
LONG TERM LIABILITIES:
Loans Payable                                             6,631.341        6,631.341       6,631.341       6,631.586        7,200.151
Contracts Payable                                             0.000           0.000            0.000           0.000
Total Long-term Liabilities                               6,631.341       6,631.341        6,631.341       8,631.686        7,200.151
DEFERRED CREDITS                                            2,521.615       2,837.276       3,135.109        3,508.248       3,880.248
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES                                         6.614            4.744           4.744            4.744           4.744
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                        11,182.320      12,443.086       13,718.988      12,683.830       13,927.564
CAPITAL STOCK
Authorized- P1OB
Paid-in Capital                                           5,559.192       5,559.192        5,659.104       5.559.192        5,659.192
Miscellaneous                                             5,957.099       5,979.243        5,957.217       5,955.377        5,956.860
RETAINED EARNINGS                                           1,324.918       1,503.408        1,429.081       1,309.998         733.841
DONATED SURPLUS                                                0.310            2.305           0.050            2.164           2.164
INVESTED SURPLUS                                             688.558        2,500.146       4,028.349        6,567.483        7,396.452
CONTINGENT SURPLUS                                             8.402            8.366           8.477            9.819          10.361
TOTAL SURPLUS AND CAPITAL                                13,538.479      15,552.660       16,982.278      18,404.033       19,658.870
TOTAL LIABILITIES, SURPLUS AND CAPITAL                   24,720.799      27,995.746       30,701.266      31,087.863      33,586.434
Page 2                                                                         C  P
0
"-4



PHILIPPINES
Water Resources Development Project
National Irrigation Administration
Table 2: Comparative Income Statement
Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 1990 - 1994
I In Million Pesos)
A    U    D    I   T    E   D
ACCOUNTS
1990     |     1991      |      1992      |      1993      |      1994
REVENUES
Operating and Service Income                                            349.623          434.233         401.962          419.744          490.189
Irrigation Fees                                                        278.719          342.306          328.022          336.095         373.414
Equipment Rental                                                        68.454           89.642           72.038           82.216         112.983
Pump Amortization                                                        2.450            2.285            1.902            1.433           3.812
Non-operating Income                                                    286.644          260.993         243.586          270.930          260.259
Interest                                                                49.509           28.649           16.632           26.639          54.137
6% Management Fee                                                      102.748           99.194           65.052          125.847          66.059
CIP Amortization                                                       103.972           53.690           44.176           50.804          51.481
Others'                                                                 30.415           79 460          117.726           67.640          88.582
TOTAL REVENUES                                                             636.267          695.226         645.548          690.674          750.448
LESS: EXPENDITURES
Personal Services                                                       508.122          498.430          581.599         535.640          599.722
Maintenance & Other Operating Expenses                                  155.266          181.918          175.165         161.451          189.499
Travelling Expenses                                                        5.292            5.414           4.468            4.049            3.920
Communication Expenses                                                     1.845            1.389           1.280            1.629            1.833
Rent                                                                                                                                          0.137
Repair & Maintenance of Government Facilities                                                                                                 0.270
Transportation Services                                                                                                                       0.276
Advertising and Publication                                                                                                                   0.200
Fidelity Bond and Insurance Premiums                                                                                                          2.760
Supplies and Materials                                                    14.690           14.262          20.447           28.498           34.336
Water, Illumination & Power Service                                       16.448          29.358           17.002           22.458           25.510
Social Security Benefits                                                   9.671           9.570           17.167           11.744           16.177
Auditing Services                                                         10.355           15.205           1.319            1.692            2.160
Maintenance of Motor Vehiclies/Equipment                                   4.271           4.572            4.543            2.431            1.602
Loss on Sale of Palay                                                      0.213          19.446           34.544           12.727            9.468
Taxes and Licenses                                                        22.234           3.719            2.238            4.788            9.921
Loss on Sale of Fixed Assets                                               0.000           0.041            0.000            1.792            6.856
Loss on Sale of Current Assets                                             0.000           0.000            0.000            6.802            0.448
Confidential and Intelligence Expenses                                     0.000           0.000            0.000            0.703            0.017
Spare Parts                                                                8.124          13.663            6.876            1.585
Gasoline and Oil                                                           7.664           9.667            7.364            2.406     ,
Representation and Transportation Expenses                                 3.588           4.408            4.694           10.601     pl    2.265
Discretionary Expenses                                                     0.031           0.025            0.014            0.000     a J    0.157
insurance and Registration of BuildingNehicles                             1.824           2.870            6.288            4.088     <      3.242
Page 1                                                                    _
0



PHILIPPINES
Water Resources Development Project
National Irrigation Administration
Table 2 (cont'd.): Comparative Income Statement
Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 1990 - 1994
(In Million Pesos )
ACCOUNTS                                                 A    U    D    I   T    E   D
1990            1991      |      1992      |      1993             1994      |
Other Services                                                                                                                                 24.761
CollectionNiability Bonus                                                  17.409           22.209           23.658            7.113            7.876
Collection Expenses                                                         2.439            5.674            8.360            8.160            5.238
Irrigators Share - IF                                                       1.880            6.043            3.397            7.646            6.106
10% Discount on ISF                                                        16.280            5.744            5.335            9.714           16.651
Interest on Net Lending                                                     0.000            0.000            0.000            0.000
Others --                                                                  11.008            8.639            6.171           10.925            8.312
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                                       663.388          680.348          756.764          697.091          789.221
NET INCOME/(LOSS) BEFORE NON-CASH EXPENSES                                  (27.121)          14.878        (111.216)           (6.417)         (38.773)
LESS: NON-CASH EXPENSES                                                        39.690           46.212           46.148           30.360          297.113
Bad Debts                                                                    0.000            0.000            0.000            0.174             8.377
Depredation                                                                 39.690           46.212           46.148           30.186          288.736   1
NET INCOME/(LOSS)                                                           (66.811)         (31.334)       (156.364)          (36.777)       (335.886)
Breakdown of other non-operating income:
Electric, water, illumination, telephone bills                             7.196           37.524           38.168           44.092
Bid Documents and Cart. Fees                                               0.778            2.111            0.674            2.653            0.905
Space and Recreational Facilities Rental                                   6.053            1.761            5.353            1.926            4.514
Sale of Goods. Materials                                                   2.792            9.378           13.981            1.061            0.633
Scrap of Fixed Assets                                                      2.738           16.841           37.537            8.141            1.531
Gain on sale of Fixed Assets                                               0.000            0.000           13.950            0.378            0.164
Subsidy for Interest on Net Lending                                        0.000            0.000            0.000            0.000
Subsidies                                                                                                                                     54.035
Miscellaneous                                                             10.857           11.855            8.062            9.389           26.800
Total                                                                        30.414           79.460          117.725           67.640           88.582
1993 discretionary expenses was pert of Other Expenses
Page 2                                                                            001 
`0
I-ti



- 116 -
ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 27
Table 3: Anasis of NIA's P&L Statement (P million!
1992                     1993       Amt      1994
Amt   %               %                      Amt  %
Income
ISF         338.0       50.8      336.0       48.7       373.4        49.8
Eq.rent      72.0       11.1       82.2        11.9       113.0        15.0
Amort.       46.1        7.1       52.3        7.6        55.3         7.4
Mgt fee      65.0       10.1       125.9       18.2       66.1         8.8
Others      134.4       20.9       94.3        13.6       142.6        19.0
Total       645.5       100.0      690.7      100.0       750.4       100.0
Expens
Person.     581.6       90.1       535.6       77.5       599.7        79.9
Admin.      123.6       19.1       123.3       17.8       160.8        21.4
Colec.       51.6        8.0       38.2        5.5        28.7         3.8
Bad dbt      0.0         0.0        0.1        0.0         8.4         1.1
Depr.        45.1        7.0       30.4        4.4       288.7         38.4
Tot exp     801.9       124.2      727.6      105.3      1086.3       144.7
Profit     (156.4)      (24.2)     (36.9)      (5.3)     (335.9)      (44.7)
17.   It is evident from the above Table that NIA has been operating at a loss for the last three
years. This loss would have been even higher, if NIA had followed generally accepted accounting
principles and reported its income on the interest alone instead of taking all amortization payments
as income, or not recorded the entire proceeds from the sale of an asset as income instead of the
difference between the proceeds from the sale and the book value.
18.   Other aspects of the NIA's operation, that become evident from the analysis of NIA's
income statement are as follows:
(a)   Salaries and wages and related expenses account for a significant proportion of
NIA's expenses, accounting for over 80%/o of total revenues in 1993 and an even
higher proportion (90%) in FY 1992. A number of reasons, some within NIA's



- 117 -
ANNEX 7
Page 10 of 27
direct control and others beyond it, have accounted for this. Firstly, following
recent increases granted by the Civil Service Commission, salaries have risen at a
rapid pace while NIA's collections have not kept pace. In fact, the amount of ISF
collected has remained between P330 and P370 million annually, while
amortization payments have remained equally stagnant, around P50 million.
Secondly, the Government has transferred the responsibility for development and
maintenance of the communal schemes to the financially strapped local
governments, which cannot assume this responsibility. In the interim, although the
development of CIS has been reduced, NIA is carrying these staff on its payroll,
stretching its meager financial resources. Finally, NIA is over staffed.
(b)   Administrative expenses have varied between 18 and 21% in the last three years,
but the amount allocated to meet these expenses is inadequate. In fact, NIA
follows the procedure of assessing the viability of each office through a simple
criteria: that the ISF and amortization collections should meet the operating
expenses of each office. As is to be expected, each office gives priority to paying
the staff before releasing funds for other activities and only the surplus funds are
made available to meet operation and maintenance expenses. Following the recent
increases in salaries, the number of viable offices has been decreasing. In 1989, 154
responsibility centers were viable. By 1993, the same figure had been reduced to
116 (Table 4). Offices that are not viable have to rely on financial assistance from
the CO or other ROs and salary payments are at times delayed in some offices.
(c)   While collection expenses, as reported (only covering staff incentives, losses on
palay, and incentives paid to Irrigators' Associations), amount to some 5.5% to
8.0% of total revenues and over 10% of the ISF and amortization collected, the
actual staff time and effort spent in collection is much higher. Preliminary analysis
in one NIS in Region IV indicated that almost all the staff including the Irrigation
Superintendent, his assistant, the Water Master, the Ditchtenders, the Clerks, the
Security Guards, the Drivers and the daily paid staff spent between 10 and 40% of
their time collecting funds from the farmers. If the collection expenses are adjusted
by the salaries of the staff in proportion to the time spent on collection, the ratio of
staff salaries to the total amount coliected by this particular office in enforcing
collection is almost 100% (see Table 5). While the particular NMS may well be an
exception, and while it would be unfair to reach a general conclusion based on the
experience of one office alone, it is evident that NIA's collection expenses, in
relation to the amount collected, are high.
Because of the viability criteria applied by NIA in assessing the performance of each office, ISF
collections are of paramount importance to the staff, whose salaries may well be delayed if they
have to rely on the CO or another region to transfer their surplus funds. The general tendency in



PHILIPPINES
Water Resources Development Project
National Irrigation Administration
Table 4: Number of Viable Field Offices
YEAR            Viable as a Region    National Irrigation Systems  Provincial Irrigation Offices
.1989                  10                        84                           60
1990                   9                        70                           59
1991                   8                        82                           58
1992                   3                        72                           52
1993                   7                        63                           46
CD-
0
-J1



- 119 -
ANNEX 7
Page 12 of 27
most offices, therefore, is to increase the amount of staff time allocated to the collection effort,
reinforcing the general observation that the collection expenses are high.
Table 5: Analysis of salary expenditures spent on ISF Collection
(P million)
Designation           Annual     Salary   Collection                 Proporfional
l___________  (P)                         Time (%)            Amount (P)
hr. Sup               109,106               30                32,732
Asst Irr. Sup         78,835                40                31,534
Cashier               72,140                20                 14,428
Water Master          69,389                40                27,755
Storekeeper           64,890                20                12,978
Guard                 63,808                10                 6,381
Driver                61,862                10                 6,186
Billing Clerk         60,133
Clerk                 59,053                20                11,810
Gate Keeper           59,053                30                17,716
Gate Keeper           60,493                30                18,148
Ditchtender           56,488                30                16,946
Ditchtender           57,568                30                17,270
Temporary Staff
Ditchtenders (5)     53,592 X 5             30                80,388
Total                                      .      .           294,272
(d)   In FY 1994 NIA registered a loss of P335.9 million in comparison to a loss of P
36.8 million in the previous year. The sharp increase in loss is primarily due to
higher depreciation charges recognized in FY 1994. In fact, the comparative
figures for net income before non-cash charges were P(38.8 million) and P(6.4
million) respectively. In booking the higher depreciation charges for FY 1994, NIA
has begun to follow the Memorandum Circular 36 issued in 1984, under which
NIA is required to charge a depreciation rate of 2% of fixed assets, 3% on



- 120 -
ANNEX 7
Page 13 of 27
buildings and structures and 10% on furniture and equipment. In compliance, NIA
has charged depreciation on all capital costs including construction of dams, while
the ISF charges are costed to cover operation and maintenance costs alone.
Clearly, NIA will never be able to show a positive net income after depreciation if
these accounting polices are followed. NIA needs to pursue this issue with the
appropriate authority.
IV. ISSUES
19.   The following issues arise with respect to NIA's accounting and financial operations.
(a)   Improper Record Keeping. The subsidiary ledgers are either not reconciled or do
not have adequate information. In a few offices, it was observed that some offices
do not maintain the subsidiary ledgers for accounts receivable at all, making it
difficult to reconcile the accounts. The same observation applies with respect to:
(i) the fixed assets, the register for which is not maintained by all offices, rendering
the job of accounts reconciliation difficult; and (ii) cash reconciliations -- the latter
problem arose when the accounts were decentralized and the accounts were
transferred either without supporting documents or these have since been lost or
misplaced.
(b)   Lack of Supporting Documentation. NIA inherited a number of accounts from its
predecessor agencies without supporting documentation and these accounts can no
longer be reconciled.
(c)   Oualified Opinion from  Auditors. Needless to say, the failure to provide
supporting documentation or reconcile the accounts has drawn comments from the
external auditors, the Commission of Audit (COA), which has repeatedly given a
qualified opinion on the accounts between 1985 and 1992. The common theme in
the comments given by the auditors covers: delayed inventory count, lack of
updated reconciliation, unreconciled accounts and incomplete information on cash,
fixed assets or accounts receivable.
(d)   Frequent Breakdown in the Computer System. The DEC-VAX machine used by
NIA is old and the maintenance contract with the supplier has not been renewed
due to cost constraints. Breakdowns are common. Moreover, access to the
computer is limited because, of the twelve terminals and five printers connected,
only four terminals and two printers are working. Further, no back up power
system has been installed for the computer system in case of power failures and the
accounts are generally in arrears, at present six months. These basic problems are



- 121 -
ANNEX 7
Page 14 of 27
further exacerbated by the non-availability of a systems manual, which poses
problems for new users.
With respect to the accounting, only the CO General Ledger and payroll systems
were computerized in the early 1980s and the systems do not maintain the
subsidiary ledgers which are recorded manually. The limited use linked to frequent
breakdowns of the system results in a substantial amount of staff time being
allocated to posting the ledgers manually.
(e)   Inadequate Controls. Frequent breakdowns in the computer systems result in
delayed reporting and little or no timely action can be taken to control the
operations. While the viability criteria applied (see para. 18(b)) and the general
lack of cash in the offices serve to limit the amount of expenditures incurred by any
office, such controls can lead to distortions in operations as the funds are being
diverted to pay salaries rather than operation and maintenance of NIA's facilities
and schemes.
The budgetary mechanism, as currently practiced, is ineffective in controlling
costs. The Corporate Operating Budget (COB) is prepared to reflect annual
expenditures, without any monthly or quarterly breakdowns. It is not, therefore,
possible to conduct a variance analysis or demand explanations in the event of cost
overruns. In any case, such detail at this point would be superfluous as the
accounts are not available on time to take advantage of the analysis that the
detailed budget might permit.
(f)   Lack of Internal Audit. NIA's operations are decentralized with over 195
responsibility centers. ROs have considerable autonomy in managing their budgets,
revenues and even temporary staff recruitment. Under these circumstances, an
effective Intemal Audit Division (IAD) would have been essential to ensure
compliance with established procedures. At present intemal audit is carried by the
Management Audit Division in MSD, with a total of eight staff assigned to
auditing and can cover no more than 30 responsibility centers in any one year. The
emphasis is more on Management rather than internal audit.
(g)   Accounting Policies. The present polices followed overstate the assets and the
income and a somewhat confused picture emerges with respect to NIA's financial
condition and performance. Specifically, the following aspects are of concem:
(i)   The entire loan amortization repayment is treated as income rather than just
the interest. NIA thus overstates its income and the balance sheet. This
practice should be discouraged, because NIA could, one day, be in a



- 122 -
ANNEX 7
Page 15 of 27
difficult position of showing assets on its books that no longer exist as they
have been repaid.
(ii)   NIA also follows the practice of including the entire proceeds from sales of
an asset rather than the difference between the sale and the book value,
which overstates the income on the one hand and the value of the assets on
the balance sheet on the other, as the book value of the sold assets is not
written down.
(iii)   The provision for bad debts remains grossly inadequate. As can be seen
from the income statement, no provision for bad debts was made between
1990 and 1992. The cumulative amount provided by December 1993 stood
at a meager P 80 million. In contrast, the ISF receivable more than one
year past due stood at P2.3 billion. The corresponding figure for the
amortization stood at P 206 million.
(iv)   The depreciation is calculated on the gross book value of a group of assets
rather than the book value of the individual items purchased -- a practice
which does not reflect the true book value of NIA's assets.
(v)   The practice of reflecting all ISF and amortization due regardless of their
age (the years for which the account is past due) overstates NIA's liquidity.
At the same time, NIA treats the Trust account payable as a current
account, which incorrectly overstates its current liabilities (those that are
due for repayment in less than one year). Similarly, all receivables are
reflected in the current account, regardless of their age.
20.   With respect to the financial performance, the following issues arise and need to be
addressed to improve NIAs profitability:
(a)   Improving Income. NIA has four important sources of revenues: ISF collections,
loan repayment on CIS schemes, equipment rental and management fees on
schemes developed. Revenues from management fees are dependent on funds
availability for development of schemes and revenues from these sources are not,
strictly speaking, directly under NIA's control.
NIA's major focus seems to be in improving ISF collections and loan repayments
as ISF payments are the single greatest source of funds. It has over P 3.0 billion in
past due accounts and the collections on current account were only 44% (59% if
collection on overdues is included) in 1994. NIA's management is aware of the
need to improve them and has now begun to take action against serious defaulters,
reportedly with good results. These efforts need to be pursued more vigorously.



- 123 -
ANNEX 7
Page 16 of 27
However, NIA has made little attempt to improve its revenues from equipment
rental. This should be explored. NIA also has a considerable amount of real estate
and it should capitalize on its properties to increase its income from these assets as
well.
(b)   High Personnel Costs. The management is aware that NIA is over staffed and has
drawn up a streamlining plan, that will reduce the number of sectors from four to
three and the number of staff on its monthly and daily payroll by from the present
level of 6,942 to 5,514 by 1998. However, NIA does not have the funds required
(some P356 million) to facilitate the reduction of the 1,428 staff through voluntary
retirement. NIA has sought the Government's assistance on this issue, and only
P51 million of the P 100 million requested in 1994 was granted. As of November
1995, NIA had utilized P43 million of this amount, reducing the number of staff by
203. So far another 500 staff have expressed an interest in seeking early retirement
voluntarily and it is expected that more would follow if the funding was available.
(c)   High collection expenses. As noted in para. 18(c), NIA's collection expenses are
high. The practice of individually billing the land owning farmers -- the billing for
water charges is sent to the owner and not the tenant -- is perhaps adding to the
costs of collection. As of September 1994, NIA had a total of 551,631 billing
clients of which 548,901 are on NIS schemes and 2,730 on the CIS. The latter
amortize their loan payments jointly, while NIS farmers are billed individually. The
logistics of retailing water (billing and collecting small amounts from over 551,000
farmers individually) for cash and in kind payments (in palay) undoubtedly increase
the collection expenses enormously. NIA should move towards wholesaling water
to lAs -- a policy that has often been considered, but not introduced -- to reduce
its collection expenses. This may be an effective long-term measure to reduce the
collection expenses.
(d)   Failure of IAs to adhere to terms of their contracts, which has added to NIA's
expenses. Since 1980 NIA has encouraged the development IAs with a view to
improving water distribution and soliciting the participation of the farmers in
maintaining the schemes and enforcing ISF collections. To this end, NIA has
contracted lAs to either maintain the canals and/or collect ISF payments. A
number of IAs are not complying with the terms of the contracts and NIA is in the
unenviable position of having to pay farmers, on the one hand and wind up doing
the work itself, on the other.



- 124 -
ANNEX 7
Page 17 of 27
V. THE PROPOSED SUB-COMPONENT
21.   The above mentioned issues have been raised both by earlier studies as well as the external
auditors, unfortunately with limited results. In consequence, the backlog of the work to be done in
rectifying the present situation only continues to build-up. NIA's management needs to urgently
address the problems encountered in recording and maintaining its accounts to truly reflect its
financial condition, and, even more importantly, subsequently manage the accounting and
financial system to improve its financial and operational performance.
22.   The objective of the proposed sub-component would be to streamline the accounting
system and provide the requisite training to the staff to operate the revised system.
23.   The project sub-component (cost details are at Annex 10) would provide funds for
consultants to prepare a revised accounting manual and train NIA staff in correctly recording the
accounting entries in accordance with a revised procedures. As the consultants would only train
the Regional staff in the use of the manual, project funds would be used to finance the training of
the other staff to ensure that in future the accounts are coded uniformly and in accordance with
the revised procedures.
24.   Consultants would also be recruited by NIA to reconcile all the previous accounts (both
at the head office and in the field) and recommend follow-up action on those accounts that can
either be no longer reconciled or for which supporting documents have been either lost or
replaced. A time period of two years has been allowed to complete the job.
25.   As already noted, it is essential that NIA now develop an Intemal Audit Division to
reinforce its internal control procedures. It has been agreed that Personnel will identify some 27
additional staff that will be aligned to this Division to bring its staff strength to 35. The focus of
the proposed Division, which should report directly to the Administer, should shift from
management audit to internal audit.
26.   As most of these staff have not been involved in auditing before, they will require some
intensive training. Project costs include funds for the staff to be initially trained at an Audit
Institute in Philippines and subsequently for refresher courses annually as needed.
VI. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY NIA
27.   The following actions would be necessary to improve NMA's accounts and finance:
(a)   Under Philippines law, the write-off procedures are complex. In cases of
unreconciled balances above P100,000, the accounts have to be submitted to the



- 125 -
ANNEX 7
Page 18 of 27
Congress for approval -- a time consuming process. In the meantime, NIA
proposes to post the unadjusted balances in suspense accounts, in effect reflecting
its true financial condition in other asset and liability categories, even before the
adjustments are formally approved. NIA should set up a suspense account as the
write-off of the assets is identified.
(b)   The Internal Auditing Department (IAD) should report directly to the
Administrator. NIA should identify the staff and place the staff, after suitable
training, with the IAD. IAD would change its focus to function as internal
auditors, monitoring and ensuring compliance with policies and procedures
established by the management.
(c)   Once the balance sheets have been cleaned up, NIA should alter its accounting
policies to align them with generally accepted accounting principles.
VII. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
28.   The financial projections for NIA's operations are given in Tables 6 to 11. Table 6
summarizes the results on the revenue and expenditure statement, both with and without non-cash
charges, under the various scenarios, namely low scenario (ISF collection efficiency of 70% and a
low level of NIA!s annual investment budget of P3.0 billion) and a high scenario (ISF collection
efficiency of 75% and an investment level of P4.0 billion per year). Other critical assumptions in
making the projections are as follows:
(a)   the salaries will increase by P1000/month/employee in 1995 and 1996, and at the
rate of 4% p.a. thereafter;
(b)   NIA will be able to secure the funding to reduce its staff strength from 6,942 to
5,514 by 1998 (the staff will increase gradually to 5,564 thereafter);
(c)   the inflation rate will be 8% in 1995, 7% in 1996 and 6% p.a. thereafter;
(d)   the price of palay will increase at a rate of 75% of the inflation rate;
(e)   the IA development program will be implemented in accordance with the plans
outlined in Annex 8, and the number of hectares turned over to the IAs, for full
operation and maintenance, will increase gradually from 12,400 to 39,918;
(f)   because of the benefits accruing from the IOSP II and the proposed WRDP, the
cropping intensity will increase by 1% per season up to 1997 and by 2% thereafter
in the wet season alone; and



- 126 -
ANNEX 7
Page 19 of 27
(g)   for reasons outlined in (f) above, the increase in benefitted area will be 0.05% in
1995 and 1996, 0.97% in 1997 and 0.05% p.a. thereafter.
29.   Based on the above assumptions, NIA's net revenue before non-cash charges under the
very low scenario will improve from a deficit of P76 million in 1995 to a surplus of P245 million
in 2004. In the high scenario, the corresponding figures for the same years will be a deficit of P70
million and a surplus of P360 million. Detailed cash flows giving the annual picture indicate that in
the extreme low case, NIA's net revenue before non-cash charges will turn positive in 2001 (Table
7). In the high scenario, the same result will be achieved as early as 1997 (Table 10). The results
for the other scenarios (low collection efficiency/high investment and high investment/low
collection efficiency) are given in Tables 8 and 9.
30.   NIA's balance sheets were also projected under the same low and high scenario. These are
not shown here but are available with NIA.
31.   Projection of NIA's cashflow for the O&M of national irrigation systems (Table 12) was
undertaken on the basis of a very conservative 67% ISF collection efficiency. The projection
shows that NIA would be able to meet all the O&M expenses through ISF and other income in
1997. However, ISF collection alone (at 67% collection efficiency) would meet the total O&M
expenses only in 1998.



- 127 -
PHILIPPINES                            ANNEX) 7
Water Resources Development Project               Page 20 of 27
Projection
Table 6. PROJECTED NET REVENUES
Investment        Collection    .                 Y E A R
Level           Efficiency   .----------------- ------------------- --
1995         1999         2002         2004
Net Revenue Without Non-Cash Charges
Low               Low 1/        :        -76.09       -36.99        73.57       244.85
High 2/         .    -69.87          2.46       121.38       298.67
High              Low 3/           .    -76.09          9.19       171.36       305.53
High 4/         .     -69.87        48.82       220.26       360.72
Net Revenue After Non-Cash Charges
Low               Low 1/               -204.78       -211.26      -138.63       -76.69
High 2/              -198.49      -203.03      -153.61        -35.77
High              Low 3/               -204.78       -211.26      -138.63       -76.69
High 4/              -198.49      -170.40       -86.98        -17.56
1/ See Table 2
2/ See Table 3
3/ See Table 4
4/ See Table 5



- 128-
PHILIPPINES
Water Resource Deveopment Project                                                                          ANNUlX
Tale7 PO:CE wtEVyU2ADEXEDUES                                                                                 Page  21  of  27
lin Mlllldn Peeoa)
1915      1996       1997       1998       1999      2000       2001       2002       2003       2004
I. OPERATING REVENUES
Total Irrigation Service Fee Collected            417.92    471.02      524.53    585.71    642.71    893.54    749.89    808.98        874.85     928.43
Pumnp Amortizaton                                   3.78       3.70       3.64       3.59       3.53      3.48       3.43       3.38       3.33       3.28
Equipment Rental                                  101.17    108.53      104.87    111.77    118.64    129.60    135.88    145.72         142.80    210.99
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                          522.84    583.25     833.04    701.07    782.88    B28.82    889.00    958.08    1020.78    1142.70
NON-OPERATING REVENUES
Interest Earned                                    30.00      30.00      30.00      30.00      30.00     30.00      30.00      30.00     30.00       30.00
Management Pee                                    149.64     151.03     140.82     140.20    166.49    180.39    197.36      232.06    226.88      343.20
Comomunal Amonotzation                             36.08      39.61      42.88      46.31      49.16     52.17      55.36      59.16     52.74      86.53
IA Equity Generetion                                3.13       9.83       7.53      12.75       0.00      0.00       0.00      10.18       0.00       0.00
NIS Amortization                                    3.04       3.44       6.05       7.89      11.84     13.79      16.58      17.33      18.11      18.92
Others                                             35.07      35.59      36.13      38.13      35.58     35.05      34.52      34.01      33.50      32.99
Grants *                                             1.17    103.00     153.58      99.31       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL NON-OPERATING REVENUES                      305.11    373.50    416.79    372.59    293.07    311.40    333.94    382.72    371.01           491.64
TOTAL REVENUES                                    830.95    955.75    1049.83   1073.86   1055.95   1138.22   1222.84   1340.80    1391.79    1634.34
II. OPERATING EXPENSES                                                                                         ,11
Salaries                                          403.48    452.83    437.25       420.47    437.59    456.02    475.31    495.04    516.08         537.34
Wages                                              28.77      34.77      37.77      39.28      40.85     42.48      44.18     45.95      47.79      49.70
Other Personal Coets                              240.38    246.82    232.40    221.52    225.95    230.84    235.98    241.13          245.71     252.25
TOTAL PERSONAL COSTS                              672.83    734.42    707.43    681.27    704.39    729.34    755.45    782.12    810.58           839.29
Travelling Expenses                                  5.00      5.95       5.93       5.24       6.54      6.82       7.12       7.45       7.79       8.15
Supplies and Msterilas                             43.80      52.09      52.43      51.94      54.64     57.32      59.77     62.36      55.23      68.21
Water. Illumnination and Power                      8.57      10.44      10.93      10.88      11.37     12.38      13.44      14.60     16.89       17.27
Gas, Oil end Vehicles Maintenance                   2.64       3.21       3.35       3.35       3.50      3.80       4.13       4.49      4.89        5.31
Power fcr Pumps                                    19.53      20.59      21.27      23.66     26.27      31.17      34.06     41.42      4.4.98     54.81
Auditing Services                                  10.00      11.39      11.19      10.51      10.40     10.77      11.15     11.54      11.95      12.38
Colsection Expenses                                13.05      15S.05     17,12      19.49      19.52     19.23      18.98      18.63     14.55      12.56
irrigators' Share                                   8.57       9.58      10.54      12.87      15.74     17.39      22.25     25.88      30.28      33.55
Contractual Services                               22.00      22.16      23.09      24.03     26.14      27.41      27.41     29.05      30.88      32.33
Collection/Viablity Bonus                           8.03       8.27       8,61       9.04       9.58     12.45      10.58       9.00      7.65       6.50
Relies of Equipment                                  5.00      5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00      5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00
Retirement/Separation Benefits nc38.00    123.05                        183.42      99.31      15.00     15.00      15.00      15.00     15.00      115.00
Taeen and Licenses                                  10.00     10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00     10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00
Reapir/Rehab of NIS                                 0.00       0.00       0.00    117.04    123.71    134.39       145.92    157.88     173.00      t88.24
Other Expenses                                     24.40      34.91      39.68      34.01      27.34     39.21      41.24     43.81      45.58      48B.64
10% Discount on ISF                                12.54      14.13      15.74      17.57     19.38      20.81      22.50     24.27      26.25      27.85
Losses in Selling Palsy                             3.13       3.53       3.93       4.39      4.82       5.20       5.62      6.07       6.58        6.96
TOTAL MAINTENANCE AND OTHER OPERATING
EXPENSES                                         234.41     349.35    402.29    458.82    388.55    428.05    453.87    485.11         514.98     550.20
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                          907.04   1083.77   1109.72   1140.09   1092.94   1157.39   1209.32   1267.23   1326.55    1359.49
NE'T REVENUE                                      .78.09    -128.02     -59.89     -66.43     -36.99    -19.17      13.52     73.57      88.23     244.85
Bed Debts                                         39.31      42.08      44.81      47.58     50.24      53.16     56.36      59.84      63.63      67.65
Depreciation                                      89.38     105.59     122.37     139.06    158.47    175.56    196.12    217.85       239.18     270.68
NET REVENUE AFTER NON-CASH CHARGES               .2014.79    -275.67    .227.07    -253.05   .243.70   -248.19   -238.96   .204.15    -236.58       -93.48
NIS ServiCe Area - Thousand Ha                       838.94    644.37    652.04    685.85    572.25    591.75    712.96    726.91          750.08     781.18
CtS Service Area - Thousand HA                       897.72    906.51     910.85    921.20    921.20    921.20    921.20    924.20    924.20          924.20
Total Service Area - Thousand He                    1538.86   1550.88   1582.69   1597.04   1593.44   116`12.94   1634.16   1661.11    1874.27    1685.35
lb of Country lirgabla Land                         49.18%    49.61%    49.99%       50.77%    50.97%    51 .60%    52.28%      52.82%    53.58%      53.91%
Irriggated Land NtS - Thousand He                    899.24    919.13    940.25    976.93   1003.95   1042.46   1086.75    1122.01    1156.83   1172.10
Irrigated Land CIS - Thousend He                    1345.95    1381.12   1408.81    1448.63   1455.84   1484.85   1474.07   1480.24   1499.48    1906.72
Total irrigated Land- Thousand He                   2245.21   2300.25   2348.85   2423.38   2459.59   2507.31   2560.85   2612.24   2856.31    2880.82
%b Cropping intensity (NIS)                         140.74%   142.64%    144.20%   145.72%   149.34%   150.70%   152.43%   154.35%    154.23%   153.99%
% Cropping intensity INIS+CISI                      129.79%   131.74%    133.59%   135.85%   137.58%   138.88%   140.35%   141.64%    142.51%    143.03%
Irrigation Service Fees - Million Kg of Palsy        109.70    112.11     115.30     119.40    122.34    127.27      132.95    137.45      142.37     144.38
Price of Plaly - Peases per kg                         8.41       6.79      7.15       7.47       7.80       8.15      8.52       8.90       9.31       9.72
Service Ares Turned over to IAa                       12.40      12.40     19.48      22.90      31.12     34.70      39.92      39.92      39.92      39.92
(Thousand Hal
*Grant for Retirement & SeparatIon Benefits, Including payment of terminal leave for optional retirement only.
Does not include paymnent of TermInal Leave
..Includes payment of TermnInal Leave
**** Assumes no increase in local taxes



- 129-
PHILUPMIES
Water Reeseircee Develoment ProjectANE
Projections
Table S. P9OJECTED REVENUE AND EXPENDITURES                                                           Page  22  of  27
Low Investmenvt Level. High Collection Efficiency
(in Million Pesos)   *(in Million Pesos]
1995      1995       1997       1998       1999       2000       2001       2002       2003       2004
I. OPERATING REVENUES
Total irrigation Service Faee Collected            424.81     486.80     548.05    819.20    686.58    740.26    799.81    862.22         931.84     988.03
Pump Amortization                                    3.75       3.70       3.64       3.59       3.53      3.48       3.43       3.38       3.33       3.28
Equipment Rents)                                   101.17    108.53      104.87     111.77     118.64    129.80    135.65      145.72     142.60     210.99
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                          529.73     598.03     656.56     734.56    806.75    873.54    938.92   1011.32    11)77.77    1202.30
NON-OPERATING REVENUES
Interest Earned                                     30.00      30.00      30.00      30.00      30.00     30.00      30.00      30.00      30.00      30.00
Management Fee                                     149.64     151.03     140.82     140.20    166.49    180.39      197.38    232.06    :226.66      343.20
Communal Amortization                               36.06      39.61      42.88      46.31      49.16     52.17      55.36      59.16      62.74      66.53
IA Equity Generation                                 3.13       9.83       7.83      12.75       0.00      0.00       0.00      10.16       0.00       0.00
NIS Amortization                                     3.04       3.44       6.05       7.89      11.84     13.79      16.58      17.33      18.11      18.92
Others                                              35.07      35.89      38.13      38.13      35.58     35.05      34.52      3.4.01     33.50      32.99
Grants *51.17                                                 108.00     153.58      99.31       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL NON-OPERATING REVENUES                      308.11    377.50    416.79       372.59    293.07    311.40    333.64    382.72    .171.01         491.64
TOTAL REVENUES                                     837.84     975.53   1073.35    1107.15   1099.82   1184.94   1272.76    1394.04    1-148.78    1693.94
II. OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries                                           403.48    452.83    437.26       420.47    437.59    456.02    475.31    495.04        816.08     537.34
Wages                                               28.77      34.77      37.77      39.28      40.85     42.48      44.18      45.95      47.79      49.70
Other Personal Coats                               240.38     246.82     232.40     221.52    225.95    230.84    235.96    241.13    2146.71        252.25
TOTAL PERSONAL COSTS                              672.63     734.42     707.43     681.27    704.39    729.34    755.45    782.12    8310.58         839.29
Travelling Expenses                                  5.00       5.95       5.98       5.93       6.24      6.54       6.82       7.12       7.45       7.79
Supplies and Materials                              43.80      52.09      52.43      51.94      54.64     57.32      59.77      62.36      65.23      68.21
Water, illumination and Power                        8.57      10.44      10.93      10.88      11.37     12.36      13.44      14.60      15.69      17.27
Gas, Oil and Vehicles Maintenance                    2.64       3.21       3.36       3.35       3.50      3.80       4.13       4.49       4.89       5.13
Power for Pumps                                     19.62      20.59      21.27      23.66      26.27     31.17      34.06      41.42      44.98      54.61
Auditing Services                                   10.00      11.39      11.19      10.51      10.40     10.77      11.15      11.54      11.96      12.38
Collection Expenses                                 13.26      15.53      17.89      20.60      20.85     20.53      20.25      17.71      15.53      13.36
Irrigators' Share                                    8.71       9.88      11.01      13.40      16.82     18.57      23.73      28.65      32.25      35.70
Contractual Services                                22.00      22.16      23.09      24.03      28.14     27.41      27.41      29.05      30.68      32.33
Collact.on/Visbility Bonus                           8.03       8.27       8.61       9.04       9.56     12.45      10.58       9.00       7.65       8.50
Rehab of Equipment                                   5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00      5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00
Retirement/Separation Benefits ..38.00                        123.05     163.42      99.31      15.00     15.00      15.00      15.00      15.00      15.00
Taxes and Licenses ...10.00                                    10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00     10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00
Repair/Rahab of NIS                                  0.00       0.00       0.00     117.04    123.71     134.39    145.92      157.88     '73.00     186.24
Other Expenses                                      24.52      35.03      39.87      34.28      27.70     39.70      41.79      44.38      40.16      49.23
10% Discount on 1SF                                 12.74      14.57      16.44      18.58     20.60      22.21      23.99      25.87      27.96      29.64
Losses In Selling Palsy                              3.19       3.64       4.11       4.64       5.15      5.55       6.00       6.47       6.99       7.41
TOTAL MAINTENANCE AND OTHER OPERATING
EXPENSES                                          235.08    350.80    404.60    462.19    392.97    432.77    459.04    490.54    !.20.62           555.98
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                           907.71   1085.22   1112.03    1143.46   1097.36   1162.11   1214.49   1272.66    1331.20    1395.27
NET REVENUE                                        -79.87  -10969.00     -38.68     -36.31       2.46     22.83      58.27     121.38     117.58     298.67
Bed Debts                                          39.24     41.85      44.36      48.78      49.02      51.47      54.17      57.11      60.34      63.76
Depreciation                                       89.38    105.59     122.37     139.06     156.47    175.86    196.12    217.88        239.18     270.68
NET REVENUE AFTER NON-CASH CHARGES                -198.49    -257.13   -205.41    -222.15    -203.03   -204.50    -192.02    -153.61    -181.94       -35.77
NIS Service Ares - Thousand Ha                       638.94    644.37    652.04    685.85    672.28    691.75    712.96    726.9i           750.08     761.16
CIS Service Area - Thousand HA                       897.72    906.51      910.65     921.20    921.20    921.20    921.20    924.20        924.20     924.20
Total Service Area - Thousand Ha                    1536.66   1550.88    1562.69    1587.04   1593.44   1612.94   1634.16   1651.11    1674.27   1885.35
% of Country Irrigable Land                          49.16%    49.61%    49.99%    50.77%    50.97%    51 .60%    52.28%    52.82%    53.56%    53.91%
Irrigated Land MIS - Thousand Ha                     899.24    919.13    940.25       976.93   1003.95   1042.46   1086.78   1122.01    1 156.83    1172.10
irrigated Lend CIS - Thousand Ha                    1345.98   1381.12   1408.61    1446.43   1455.64   1464.85   1474.07   1490.24    1499.48    1508.72
Total irrigated Land- Thousand Ha                   2245.21   2300.25   2348.86   2423.36   2459.59   2507.31   2560.85   2512.24   2656.31    2680.82
% Cropping intensity (NIS)                          140.74%   142.64%   144.20%   146.72%   149.34%   150.70%   152.43%   154.35%   154.23%   153.99%
% Cropping Intensity INIS+CISI                      129.79%   131.74%   133.59%   135.85%   137.58%   138.88%   140.35%   141 .84%   142.51%   14-3.03%
Irrigation Service Fees - Million Kg of Palsy        109.70    112.11      115.30     119.40    122.34    127.27    132.95       137.45     142.37     144.38
Price of Plaly - Pesos per kg                          6.41       6.79       7.15       7.47       7.80       8.15      8.52       8.90       9.31        9.72
Service Area Turned over to lAs                       12.40      12.40      19.46      22.90      31.12      34.70     39.92      39.92      39.92      39.92
(Thousand Hal
*Grant for Retirement & Separation B3enefits, including payment of terminal leave for optional retirement only.
*Does not include psyment of Terminal Leave
Includes payment of Terminal Leave
Assumes no Increase In local taxes



PHILIPPINES            -  130  -
Water Resources Dlopment Project                                                        ANNEhl7
Projections                                                                  Page  23  of  27
Table 9. PROJECTED REVENUE AND EXPENDITURES
High Investment Level, Low Collection Efficiency
(in Million Pesos)
1995     1996      1997      1998      1999      2000     2001      2002      2003      2004
1. OPERATING REVENUES
Total Irrigation Service Fees Collected       417.92    471.02    525.29    587.04    644.94    698.28    756.58    823.79    880.32    946.99
Pump Amortization                               3.75      3.70      3.64     3.59      3.53      3.48      3.43      3.38      3.33      3.28
Equipment Rental                              101.17    128.06    138.47    128.99    137.15    161.03    188.40    184.72    203.15    227.22
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                     522.84    602.78    667.40    719.62    785.62    862.79    948.41   1011.89   1086.80   1177.49
NON-OPERATING REVENUES
Interest Earned                                30.00     30.00    30.00     30.00     30.00     30.00     30.00     30.00     30.00     30.00
Manegement Fee                                149.64    180.65    184.21    159.02    192.53    222.82    304.20    300.35    331.95    374.41
Communal Amortization                          36.06     39.61    42.88     46.31     49.16     52.58     55.79     59.18     63.12     67.34
IA Equity Generation                            3.13      9.83      7.53     12.75     0.00      8.04      0.00     0.00       9.10     11.42
NIS Amortizetion                                3.04      3.44     6.05       7.89    11.84     13.79     16.58     17.33     18.11     18.92
Others                                         35.07     35.59    36.13     36.13     35.58     35.05     34.52     34.01     33.50     32.99
Grants *                                       51.17    103.00    153.58    99.31      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
TOTAL NON-OPERATING REVENUES                 308.11    402.12    460.38    391.41    319.11    362.28    441.09    440.87    485.78    535.08
TOTAL REVENUES                                830.95   1004.90   1127.78   1111.03   1104.73   1225.07   1389.50   1452.76   1572.58   1712.57
II. OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries                                      403.48    452.83    437.32    420.57    437.73    456.30    475.69    495.85    516.57    538.48
Wages                                          28.77     34.77     37.77     39.28    40.85     42.4B     44.18     45.95     47.79     49.70
Other Personal Costs                          240.38    246.82    232.43    221.56    226.02    230.96    236.12    241.47    246.91    252.71
TOTAL PERSONAL COSTS                         672.63    734.42    707.52    681.41    704.60    729.74    755.99    783.27    811.27    840.89
Travelling Expenses                             5.00      5.95      5.99      5.93     6.24      6.55      6.84      7.15      7.48      7.84
Supplies and Materials                         43.80     52.09     52.44     51.96    54.68     57.40     59.90     62.62     65.50     68.66
Water, Illumination and Power                   8.57     10.44     10.93     10.88    11.37     12.36     13.44     14.62     15.90     17.30
Gas, Oil end Vehicles Maintenance               2.64      3.21      3.36      3.35     3.50      3.80      4.14      4.50      4.89      5.32
Power for Pumps                                19.62    20.59     21.28     23.67     27.66     34.16     41.14    48.28     54.44      62.37
Auditing Services                              10.00     11.39     11.19     10.51    10.41     10.78     11.16     11.56     11.97     12.41
Collection Expenses                            13.05     15.05     17.15     19.53    19.59     19.36     19.15     16.92     14.67     12.81
irrigators' Share                               8.57      9.58     10.53     12.66    15.73     17.37     22.22     26.80     30.11     33.33
Contractual Services                           22.00     22.16     23.09     24.03    26.14     27.41     27.41     29.05     30.68     32.33
CollectionNViebility Bonus                      8.03      8.27      8.61     9.04      9.58     12.45     10.58      9.00      7.65      6.50
Rehab of Equipment                              5.00      5.00     5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00
Retirement/Separation Benefits *               38.00    123.05    153.42    99.31     15.00     15.00     15.00     15.00     15.00     15.00
Taxes and Licenses ....                        10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00    10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00
Repair/Rehab of NIS                             0.00      0.00     0.00    117.40    124.29    135.57    147.54    161.45    175.17    191.46
Other Expenses                                 24.46     34.91    39.69     34.02     27.56     39.85     42.71    45.29     47.52      50.31
10% Discount on ISF                            12.54     14.13     15.76    17.61     19.35     20.95    22.70     24.71     26.41      28.41
Losses in Selling Palsy                         3.13      3.53      3.94     4.40      4.84      5.24      5.67      6.18      6.60      7.10
TOTAL MAINTENANCE AND OTHER OPERATING
EXPENSES                                     234.41    349.35    402.38    459.30    390.94    433.25    464.60    498.13    528.99    566.15
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                      907.04   1083.77   1109.90   1140.71   1095.54   1162.99   1220.59   1281.40    340.26   1407.04
NET REVENUE                                   -76.09    -78.87     17.88    -29.68     9.19     62.08    168.91    171.36    232.32    305.53
Bad Debts                                     39.31    42.06     44.82     47.58     50.27     53.22     56.46    60.04     63.86      68.00
Depreciation                                  89.38    109.76    130.44    149.70    170.18    194.23    222.37    249.95    280.29    314.22
NET REVENUE AFTER NON-CASH CHARGES           -204.78   -230.69   -157.38   -226.96   -211.26   -185.37   -109.92   -138.63   -111.83    -76.69
.   ___. __._.__......... ... _.__........ _... .... ..  . . . ..... .... .  ..... .. ___......  ... ..... .    ...... . ... . ...  ..  ...... ... . __...  _. _.. ._. _. .............  ................  ...    -  -- -. --    ----  -_._
NIS Service Area - Thousand Ha                  638.94    644.37    653.34    667.85    675.25    697.54    720.41    742.46    759.01    781.38
CIS Service Area - Thousand HA                  897.72    906.51    915.09    921.20    921.20    924.20    924.20    924.20    926.60    929.30
Total Service Area -Thousand Ha                1536.66   1550.88   1568.48   1589.04   1596.44   1621.74   1644.61   1666.65   1685.60   1710.68
% of Country Irrigable Land                     49.16%    49.61%    50.17%    50.83%    51.07%    51.88%    52.61%    53.32%    53.92%    54.72%
Irrigated Land NIS -Thousand Ha                 899.24    919.13    941.98    979.65   1008.12   1050.04   1096.25   1141.84   1163.92   1195.95
Irrigated Land CIS - Thousand Ha               1345.98   1381.12   1414.20   1446.43   1455.64   1471.75   1481.00   1490.24   1505.07   1520.66
Total Irrigated Land- Thousand Ha              2245.21   2300.25   2356.18   2426.08   2463.76   2521.79   2577.24   2632.08   2668.99   2716.60
% Cropping Intensity (NISI                     140.74%   142.64%   144.18%   146.69%   149.30%   150.53%   152.17%   153.79%   153.35%   153.06%
% Cropping Intensity INIS+CISI                 129.79%   131.74%   133.57%   135.85%   137.58%   138.83%   140.27%   141.71%   142.16%   142.70%
Irrigation Service Fees - Million Kg of Paley   109.70    112.11    115.49    119.70    122.80    128.22    134.22    140.17    143.23    147.44
Price of Palay - Pesos per kg                     6.41      6.79      7.15      7.47     7.80      8.15      8.52      8.90      9.31      9.72
Service Area Turned over to lAs                  12.40     12.40     19.46     22.90    31.12     34.70     39.92     39.92     39.92     39.92
(Thousand Hal
* Grant for Retirement & Separation Benefits, including payment of terminal leave for optional retirement only.
Does not include payment of Terminal Leave
*  Includes payment of Terminal Leave
Assumes no increase In local taxes



PHLPV~                 -  131  -
Wn  Pls"bes            t hJ etu                                                           ANNFX 7
TtW 10.  FIIN WA  ANDDm                                                                         Page 24 of 27
High h w _  Levell MOh CdNwton Efft_iy
(in M-lion Pesosi
19W6      19        tSS7      1908      1999      2000     2001       2002      2003      2004
1. OPERATING REVENUES
Total Irrigation Sevice Fe  Collcd            424.81    485.80    548.86    620.61   688.99    745.38    807.03    878.21    937.68   100S.04
Pump Amortization                               3.75      3.70      3.64       3.59      3.53      3.48     3.43      3.38       3.33      3.28
Equipment Rernl                               101.17    128.06    138.47    128.99    137.15    161.03    189.40    184.72    203.15    227.22
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                      521.73    617.56    690.97    753.19    829.67    909.89    998.86   1086.31   1144.16   1238.54
NON-OPERATING REVENUES
Interest Eamed                                 30.00     30.00      30.00     30.00     30.00     30.00    30.00     30.00      30.00     30.00
Management Fee                                 148.64    180.65    1 4.21    159.02    192.53    222.82    304.20    300.35    331.95    374.41
Communal Amortization                          36.06     39.61     42.88      46.31     49.16     52.58    85.79      59.18     63.12     67.34
IA Equity Generation                            3.13      3.63      7.53      12.78      0.00      8.04     0.00      0.00       9.10     11.42
NIS Amortization                                3.04      3.44       6.06      7.69     11.84     13.79    16.58      17.33     18.11     18.92
Others                                         35.07     35.59      36.13     36.13     35.58     35.05    34.52     34.01      33.50     32.99
Grants *                                       51.17    103.00    183.58      99.31      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
TOTAL NON-OPERATING REVENUES                  308.11    402.12    480.36    391.41    319.11    362.28    441.09    440.87    485.78    535.08
TOTAL REVENUES                                 837.84   1019.66   1151.35   1144.80   1148.78   1272.17   1439.95   1507.18   1629.94   1773.62
II. OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries                                      403.48    482.83    437.32    420.57    437.73    456.30    475.69    495.85    516.57    538.48
Wages                                          28.77     34.77      37.77     39.28     40.85    42.48     44.18     45.95      47.79     49.70
Other Personal Costs*-                        240.38    24U.62    232.43    221.56    226.02    230.96    236.12    241.47    246.91    252.71
TOTAL PERSONAL COSTS                          672.63    734.42    707.52    681.41    704.60    729.74    755.99    783.27    811.27    840.89
Travelling Expenses                             5.00      5.95       5.99      5.93      6.24     6.55      6.84      7.15       7.48      7.84
Supplies and Materials                         43.80     52.09      52.44     51.96     54.68    57.40     59.90     62.62     65.50      68.66
Water. Illumination and Power                   8.57     10.44     10.98      10.88     11.37    12.36     13.44     14.62      15.90     17.30
Gas, Oil and Vehicles Maintenance               2.64      3.21      3.36       3.35      3.50     3.80      4.14      4.50       4.89      5.32
Power for Pumps                                13.62     20.59     21.28     23.67     27.66     34.16     41.14     48.28     54.44      62.37
Auditing Services                              10.00     11.39      11.19     10.51     10.41     10.78    11.16     11.56      11.97     12.41
Collection Expenses                            13.26     18.53      17.92    20.65     20.93     20.67     20.43     18.04      15.63     13.64
Irrigators- Share                               6.71      9.8S      11.00     13.39     16.80    18.54     23.70     28.57     32.07      35.48
Contractual Services                           22.00     22.16     23.09      24.03    26.14     27.41     27.41     29.05     30.68      32.33
CollectionNViability Bonus                      6.03      8.27      8.61       9.04      9.58    12.45     10.58      9.00       7.65      6.50
Rehab of Equipment                              5.00      5.00       5.00      5.00      5.00     5.00      5.00      5.00       5.00      5.00
RetirementrSeparation Benefits                 38.00    123.05    163.42      99.31     15.00    15.00     15.00     15.00      15.00     15.00
Taxes and Licenses ....                         10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00    10.00      10.00     10.00     10.00
Repair/Rehab of NIS                             0.00      0.00      0.00    117.40    124.29    135.57    147.54    161.45    175.17    191.46
Other Expenses                                 24.52     35.03      39.87     34.29     27.92    40.34     43.27     45.87      48.11     50.90
10% Discount on ISF                            12.74     14.57     16.47      18.62    20.67     22.36     24.21     26.35     28.13      30.24
Losses in Selling Palsy                         3.19      3.64      4.12       4.65      5.17     5.59      6.05      6.59      7.03       7.56
TOTAL MAINTENANCE AND OTHER OPERATING
EXPENSES                                     236.08    350.80    404.74    482.68    396.36    437.98    489.81    503.65    534.65    572.01
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                      907.71   1085.22   1112.26   1144.09   1099.96   1167.72   1225.80   1286.92   1345.92   1412.90
NET REVENUE                                    49.87    -65.54     39.09       0.51    48.82    104.45    214.15    220.26    284.02    360.72
Bad Debts                                     39.24     41.865    44.37     4S.79     49.04     51.52     54.26     57.29     60.54      64.06
Depreciation                                  89.38    109.76    1S0.44    149.70    170.18    194.23    222.37    249.95    280.29    314.22
NET REVENUE AFTER NON-CASH CHARGES           -198.49   -217.15   .135.72   -195.98   -170.40   -141.30    -62.48    -86.98     56.81    .17.56
NIS Service Ares - Thousand Ha                   6368.4    644.37    663.34    667.85    675.25    697.54    720.41    742.46    759.01    781.38
CIS Service Are - Thousand HA                    897.72    906.51    915.09    921.20    921.20    924.20    924.20    924.20    926.60    929.30
Total Service Ares - Thousand He                1536.66   1550.68   1546.48   1589.04   1596.44   1621.74   1644.61   1666.65   1685.60   1710.68
% of Country lrrigeble Land                     49.16%    49.61%    50.17%    50.83%    51.07%    51.88%    52.61%    53.32%    E*3.92%    54.72%
Irrigated Land NIS. Thousand Ha                  699.24    918.13    941.08    979.a5   1008.12   1050.04   1096.25   1141.84   1 63.92   1195.95
Irrigated Land CIS - Thousand He                1345.98   131.12   1414.201  1448.43   1455.64   1471.75   1481.00   1490.24   1505.07   1520.66
Total Irrigated Land- Thousand Ha               2246.21   2300.25   2356.18   2426.08   2483.76   2521.79   2577.24   2632.08   2668.99   2716.80
% Cropping Intensity (NIS)                     140.74%   142.64%   144.18%   148.69%   149.30%   150.53%   162.17%   153.79%   153.35%   153.06%
% Cropping Intensity (NIS+CIS)                 129.79%   131.74%   133.57%   135.85%   137.78%   138.83%   140.27%   141.71%   142.16%   142.70%
Irrigation Service Fees - Million Kg of Palay    109.70    112.11    115.49    119.70    122.80    128.22    134.22    140.17    '43.23    147.44
Price of Palsy - Pesos per kg                     6.41       6.79      7.15      7.47      7.80     8.15      8.52      8.90       9.31      9.72
Service Area Turned over to lAs                   12.40     12.40     19.4U     22.90     31.12     34.70    39.92     39.92      39.92     39.92
(Thousand HO)
.                                                                                ...   .  _   _ _   _ ___ __    ........................ __ __ _ .____.. _ . _ ...... _ . __ ......... ..............._.,.. . . ...  .......  .. .....
Grant for Retirement & Separation hneflt, ircklding payment of termina leave for optioal retirement only.
Does not Include payment of Termnhal Legve
Includes payment of Termhal Leam
*    Assumes no Increase In local taxs



PHILIPPINES
Water Resources Development Project
Projection
Table I1. Projected Manpower Employed
:                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~Y E A R
:-   -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  - -  -   -  .  -  -  -  -  -  -   .  -  -  - -  .   .  - -   -  --YE A R.
1995   :    1996   :    1997   :    1998            1999   :   2000   :    2001    :    2002   :   2003               2004
Monthly         ::      6442         6068         5423 :        5014 :       5018 :       5028 :       5039 :       5046         5058 :        5064
Daily           ::       500:         500:          500:         500:         500:         500:         500:         500:         500:          500
Total            :      6942         6568 :        5923         5514 :       5518         5528         5539 :       5546 :       5558 :        5564
/                                       I
Ln A
0
'.



111lI  IISW IG ppIS    i     I ELPlT11C
TIBLI 12. OPSUl116G UP515SI IID IlC0U of ALL I11 Ss
(IMAL FRM 199S TO 1995; MWcEMB RON 1996 TO 2002)
!IIS's lltTIClliI!    S  1995                         1      !  I91T       1 9BI     1919   !1990   !" 19f              1992   !1993   !1994        1995   !1996   !1931            1958      1999   !2000   !2001 !
!  .Operating Spste e                             567160    5 95901 !6C0049! 617963 !6169"'    62061    637318    645719 ! 646519 !646519 !650556 !655566 !655566 !665566    672816 !685896    6 95336!
!b. Totol Service Ire  for 105P-II               !5Ml160 !595901 !          4091 !   17963 !6169t7    620964    63T131o8   617649 !61B3  ! 5908l6    5 90846! 621126 !632126 !637126 !611676 !651156 !667196!
!a. Ilet Seams (hla                                 4 30069 !   3S7SI !136330    4441257    4 62191 ! 185SI ! 19074    4413310 ! 12393    454S210 ! 12775    48IB122    5 00628 !5226B9    5415l28    565670 !587132!
!  .1 Perceetage of Service Area (111              T5.U3 ! N.12 1 72.66 !   l.B9 !   16-71 !   l.07     72.03 !68.65 !68.43                       7 5.16 ! 76.16 T! 7716 !    9.16 !82.00             8 R.00    8 6.00 !88.00!
!b. Dry SelsO Ih11! 3503933   3N20    370106 !312675 !3M190 !382702    4 3236     3B1117 !384313 !396001 !39065] !  57011 !   60659 ! 16321 !  70613 !  80162    4 87053 
!  .1 Perctetage of Servite Irea (Sl               61.78     63.U     61.63        55S.45     62.92 !61.63 !    7.84 !59.53            5 9.11     70.84     71.84     72.84     72.84     73.00 ! 73.00     73.00 !73.00!
!c. Total (Ihl                                      7 80162 !111011 ! eD636!  786932 ! I03B1    8 61256 !  91439    8 27757 !   26706! 850211! 843126 !911139! 961288    988010! 10121411  1045832! 1074186!
!  . clIrripatioo leteosity (l!137.61 ! 13.61 !131.29 !121.34    137.83 !138.10 !139.87 !1IU.18 !133.69 !143.N9!  142.75 ! I0.00 !152.00 !  IS.00 !157.00    15I9.00 !161.00!
!a. Ilel Seue (hla! 393178 !   19075 !   13137 !366531    377900 ! u272e !4111648 !   016U !  394936    4 0U007 ! U$112 !   39450    4 59410    4 88035 !505625 !   28166 !548206!
!  .1 Percestage of Irrigated Area             !92.82 !96.17 ! 91.81 !    2.11               8 1.76 !92.51 ! 90.32 !91.28     89.27 !    9.77 ! 90.27 !90.77 !91.77 !93.37 !93.37 !93.31     93.37!
!b. Dry 5euoi Ihla)                                 331959 !361371    347610 !321264    363399    36366 1 !   1392o    340199 !356119 !3N8677    340251 !    0713h                4 38710 !   59691    4 64919 ! llU$2 ! I1160!
!   '.1 Percestage of Jrrigitle kres               91.71     97.31     93.94     93.75 ! 93.61 ! 95.03 ! 95.71 !88.65 ! 92.71 ! 93.241!   93.71     91.21     95.21                        9 8.19 !98.79 ! 98.79 !98.79!                  
C . Iotal (la)                                   ! 131137 !7871S2 !761501 !6U7698    711299 ! M l6 81    28576    7451S12 !751355 !78661    745993 ! '70152    8 98180 !947726 !970$U4! 1002518 !1029365!
! c.1 Percetitie of Irrigated Area IS)         !93.6O !  U.73 !91.13              8 7.39 ! 81.17 !93.63 ! 92.95             9 g.06 ! 90.89 !92.53           88B.IS5    92.16 ! 93.44     95.92 !95.89 !95.86 !95.83!w
!a. Correet ISi Billieg W0,e000)               !306.84    315.25 ! 35.U!  31B.56 !368.99    484B.21 !5SM.40 !555.36 !652.18 !658.12 !66B.68    8 ol.OB    932.71 !1,017.64 !1,135.21 !1,238.70 !1,327.09!
! 1. Total ISF Collectioo IP'00,0O01             !  143.21    179.90    173.97 !181.79 !213.U3 !27B.72 !3U2.31 !340.12 !337.33 !316.26 !327.77 !516.16 !624.60 !701.92    7 60.59 !829.93 !889.15!
!c. Total ISF Collectioe as Perecotape           !         !          !         !          !         !          !         !          !                           
! of Correot ISF lilliog 11}                       16.70 !    2.11 !    7.55 !52.15 ! 57.95     57.56 !60.22 !61.24     51.70 ! 52.59 !    9.02 !64.40 !    7.00 ! 67.00 !67.00 !67.00 !67.00!
!d. Losses ie ISF Collettioe                                                                                                                    
!  .1 Sales olfl tis haeollettioe IP000,000l!    0.00 !        3.o3      8-4.2 !    0.61 !    1.11       0.21 ! 19.45     29.11     19.)1 !         .87 ! 10.31        18I.U  !   21.92 ! 23.62 ! 23.09 ! 21.08 ! 16.81!
d .2 lebates on paroept papest IP'000,000)!   0.61!    6.U  !    6.85               6.72     11I.59!   16.2B       5.71!    8.50        8 .43      8 .66 !     .19!   13.65     15.62!   17.55     19.01!  20.75     22.23!
!  .3 Tolal losses IP'OOO O00)                 ! 0.61 ! 10.71 ! 15.27 !             7.33 ! 13.03 ! 16.19 ! 25.19 ! 37.61     27.55 ! 17.53 ! 18.51 ! 32.19 !37.54                           4 1.17    4 2.10 !    1.83 !39.04 
!e. let ISF Colleclioe IP'000 O00)               !112.67 !169.19    15IS.70 !171.16 !200.80 !262.23 !317.12 !302.1B8   309.78    328.73 !309.26 !513.6    587.06 !6bO.75 !718.19 !788.10 ! B0.11!
!f. let ISF Collectioe/lolt Area (P/Ia)             251.55 !283.92 !264.28    282.31 !325.15    4 22.30 !  97.59 !  68.39    500.U6 !  56.37 !523.12 ! BI.71 !928.27 !1036.59 !1114.19 !1198.16 !1274.16!
3IS llSco t IICCL  IP'000 0001                                                                                                                   
!  . houremt feet I?'tO00  000)!                           !          !         !          !         !          !         !          !    3.23!   32.06!   34.17!  21.BB     13.98                           
!. L ag 5 oo m oeI1 CoeLraet IP 000o000)                              I                                                                            1.22 ! 9.30 ! 25.411  35.39 !    6.12 ! 57.66 ! 62.27 ! 69.05 !    5.0B 
C . Itaileet leebal IP'000 000)!    2.04                        8 .13!   10.12 ! 11.76         18I.79    4 0.94     3B.P9!   79.72!  63.42!  109.03!  122.33             18I.21!   20.33!  21.51!   21.43         2 2.38!  20.51 
d . IlS'S Total Other lienoe IP00i7000)          !    2.01      8 .43     10.12 ! 14.76 ! 18.79          4 0.94     31.5t1 !    9.72 ! 6T.1.B     150.39    181B.91 !   l.IB8      80.13     MI 891      3.70 !91.16 !95.6$5                           ,
!e. IlS'o otler iecsehB/i  U/h. S.l.)            !    3.60     14I.15     17.36!   23.88     30.46!   65.93!   61.16!  123.15!  109.75! 251.53!  307.88    120.29!  127.1B    )21.20!  129.8  1 I9.0S    143I.35!Dn>
315S's TOTAL IIC1!                                          !          !         !          !         !          !!M                    
!a. Amelt YVON000)                               !111.71    1117.62 !169.12 !189.22 !219.59 !30l.11'!  356.10 !3B2.20 !317.65    479 12    49 IT1     589.15 !667.19 !   39.92 !   02.19 !879.56 !915.76!                                
! . D,it Cost/Service Area IP/Is)                !255.15 !296.07 !211.61 !N6.N2! 355.90 !   88.22 !5SN.74    591.83    610.71 !810.90 !831.30 !939.00   1055S.IS5  1160.79 !1211.33 !1331.22 ! 117.51 !O _
::::::::   ::::::::::::::::::   :::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::   -:-:::::  :::::::    :::::-::-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::-::-:::::::- ::::h



col t. of Table 12
!~~                                       ~ ~       ~ ~        ~ ~       ~ ~       ~ ~        ~ ~        ~~ !   !   !   !   !   !     !  !  !  !        !          !         !          !I  
!IS's PAhITLfOI                  !1985   !1986   !1987  !19                !  1989   !1990  !1991!  1992!  1993  !1994!  1995  !199 !   1997!   1998  ! 1999  ! 2000  ! 2001!
M I I hpius~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~II                                                                           I         I          I                                         I         II                              
!0&Hahzpensm Is                                             !         !          !         !          !         !          !         !          !         !          !         !          !         !I  
a. Personal  xenses (P 000,000)                 !         !          !  155.71    12.18 I   168.8 ! 220.59 ! 252.44 ! 239.11    248.6M     236.36    24.81I   271.417    284.58    298.30 ! 313.76 ! 332.93 ! 351.22 !
Cost Per I  of Serice Area (P/ia)            !         !          ! 259.30 ! 294.80    273.38 ! 355.23 ! 396.09 ! 371.19 ! 384.64!  400.03 ! 416.03 ! 432.67!  449.98    467.98 ! 486.70 ! 506.17 ! 526.41
b. Otter Operating hpeses (P000,000)            !         !              4 0.02 !  44.90 !  45.33       49.68 !  93.8  !  102.73 ! 106.58 ! 104.22 ! 111.52 ! 126.71 ! 136.66 ! 147.38 ! 159.49    174.12 !  188.98
Cost Per la of Service Area (Ma)             !         !          !  66.65 !   72.66 !   73.47 !  80.00    147.30 !  159.08 !  164.85 ! 176.39 !  188.74 ! 201.95    216.09    231.21 ! 247.40    264.72 ! 283.25
! c. Incremntal 0 a  IP1000,000)                  .         .          !   0.00!    8.86 !   41.61 !  130.83 !   72.67         W 80.00 !  61.16 !  96.53 !  113.641 !  139.46 ! 157.81 !  146.37     1517.45 ! 170.29! 183.09
Coat Per Ia of Service Area (P/ia)           !         !          !    0.0  !   14.34 !  67.44 ! 210.69 ! 114.02 !  123.88           94.60 ! 163.38 ! 192.33 ! 222.27 ! 249.53 ! 230.41    244.23 ! 258.89 ! 274.42
!d. Coat of iunistratioas                         !         !          !         !          !         !         !          !         !          !         !          !                      !                  !         !
(15 1S of ite a t b) (P000,000)              !         !          !  29.36!   34.0 !   32.10         40.54!   51.95!   51.37!   53.29!   51.09           53.60!   59.73!   63.19!   66.85!   70.99!   76.06!   81.03!
Coat Per la of Service Area (P/ia)           !         !          !  48.89!   55.12!   52.03!   65.28!   81.51!   79.54!   86.18!   86.46!   90.72!   95.19!   99.91!  104.88!  110.11!  115.63!  121.45
e. Total 018 6D penes (P100,000)                !  160.92!  180.53 S    225.09    270.00 ! 287.72 ! 441.63 ! 470.93    4 473.81    4 469.71 ! 488.20!  524.56 ! 597.36 ! 642.23 ! 659.41 ! 701.69 ! 753.40 ! 804.32
Coat Per la of Service Area (P/ia)           ! 283.73 ! 303.04!  374.84 ! 436.92!  466.32 ! 711.20 ! 738.92 !  733.89 ! 759.58 ! 826.27 ! 887.82 ! 952.09 !1,015.51 !1,034.48 !1,088.45 !1,145.40 !1,205.53 !
!117 liiin  (XlICIT) (P 000,000)                  !  (16.21)!   (2.00)!  (55.97)!  (. 78)!  (68.13)! (138.46)! (114.83)!  (91.61)!  (92.06)!   (9.08)!  (33.39)!   (8.21)!   25.26            M 80.51 ! 100.49!  126.17 ! 141.44 !
_IJ 1992 311DM  IS A ICT  in WuD. 3m1               581    BE   ISIP   WiC  IA  D0T IICL111D ID lOSP-II.
M(DX
x
0
N)<
-4



- 135 -
Annex 8
Page I of 16
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE IRRIGATORS' ASSOCIATION (IA) DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
I. BACKGROUND
1.    The concept of organizing farmers in groups was initiated in 1969 in response to the need
to secure better water management by introducing rotational irrigation by section of a farrn main
ditch. It required that farmers in a rotation area (about 50 acres) served by a tumout be organized
in farmers irrigators groups (FIGs).
2.    In 1980 the subsidies available to NIA were reduced. In order to improve its operating
efficiency and also to enhance the performance of the irrigation schemes, NIA undertook to
organize farmers with a view to involving them in the operations of the irrigation systems to
secure better water distribution, reduce operation and maintenance (O&M) costs and improve the
Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) collections.  To this end, NIA introduced the Participatory
Approach Program (PAP). Under the program, the farmers serviced by one turnout were
organized into Turnout Service Area Groups (TSA) -- former FIGs--which were affiliated with a
secondary level organization called the Irrigators Association (lAs). Under the concept each TSA
was expected to cover about 20 ha (about 15 farmers) and some 15 TSAs would be affiliated to
one IA which would serve, on average, about 250 farmers working on about 300 ha.
Organizational Set-up for Supporting lAs
3.    The overall responsibility for organizing and training lAs in NIA rests with the
Institutional Development Department (IDD), which is, at present, under the direct responsibility
of the Assistant Administrator, Systems Operation and the Equipment Management Sector
(SOEM).
4.    At the Head Office, IDD is organized in two Divisions, The Irrigators Organization
Division (IOD) and the Irrigators Assistance Division (IAD), the activities of which are
supervised by the Departmental Manager.
5.    The IOD, headed by a Division Manager, is responsible for Organization and Training. It
is staffed by a Division Manager, who is supported by three Irrigators Development Chiefs
(IDCs) who are respectively responsible for policy formulation and monitoring of NIS schemes,
CIS schemes, and registration of lAs. The IDCs are in turn supported by five Senior Irrigation
Development Officers (SIDOs). One SIDO is pursuing higher studies and the other four are
assigned to respectively monitor IOSP-II, registration of lAs with SEC, and the other projects
being implemented by NIA. In addition, there are two IDOs supporting the SIDOs in analyzing
and compiling data provided by the Regional Offices.



- 136 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 16
6.    The IAD is staffed by a Division manager, two IDCs, six SIDOs and 1 Agriculturalist.
Of the two IDCs, one is away on a consulting assignment, and the other handles coordination
with other agencies for providing support services to the lAs. Of the six SIDOs, two are involved
in IMIS/IAMS training and another three are handling project Benefit Monitoring and
Evaluation. One SIDO has been seconded to the WRDP and the Agriculturalist has been
seconded to the IOSP-II Project Management Office.
7.    At the Regional Office, the overall responsibility for implementing the IDP rests with
IDD Division Managers, who are supported by SIDOs and IDOs responsible for supervision,
monitoring and training of staff and the lAs. In total, some 75 staff on the monthly payroll are
located in the 12 Regional Offices and UPRIIS and MARIIS, giving an average of 5.3
supervisory staff per Region/Major Irrigation Scheme.
8.    At the Field level NIA recruits IDOs to work with Water Masters (WRFTs) and Farmer
Irrigators Organizers (FIOS) to organize the lAs.
9.    The program was initiated by using degree holder Irrigation Community Organizers
(ICO), now referred to Institutional Development Officers (IDOs), to assist in the institutional
development of the lAs. As the program was conceptualized, the IDO was to be the principal
field worker to organize the farmers with the field level staffing varying with the type of schemes
being developed. In CIS, generally each IDO has one project, where he/she lives and another
project that he or she supervises part-time. On NIS the organizational arrangements were
conceptualized differently. The IDO was to be responsible for organizing, on average, 12.5 lAs
on 3,750 ha.
10.   At present, the practice varies with staff availability and local requirements. IDO
involvement is considered more critical in new projects rather than rehabilitation where the
farmers are considered to be familiar with irrigation and where, albeit inactive, an IA is perhaps
already organized. Because of this consideration and also to reduce costs, NIA trained the
Watermasters to organize the lAs with the support of FIOs identified by the WRFTs. The FIOs
are paid a stipend of P500/month to assist the lAs during the training and the organization phase,
after which the FIOs are expected to become ex-officio members, serving as Advisors (on
organizational issues) on a gratuity basis.
11.   The IDOs were employed as group organizers on a contractual basis with their contracts
terminating once the IAs were organized. Unfortunately, a number of them retarded the IA
development process to extend their tenure of employment, which led to some disillusionment
with their performance.
12.   Staffing. Besides the 250 IDOs working in the CIS schemes, there are a total of 885 staff
involved in NIS, the latter with varying degrees of commitment or time availability (see para 13).
Of these 17 are located at the Head office, 75 in the Regions including UPRIIS and MRIIS, and
the remaining 793 at the Field Offices (see Table 1). The Head Office and the Regional staff are
graduates with varying backgrounds (sociologists, agriculturalists, economists), while the
WRFTs have attained varying levels of educational qualifications. The older WRFTs have



- 137 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 16
generally acquired school leaving certificates, while the younger employees may be graduates or
diploma holders. FIOs are farmers located at the schemes.
13.   Most of the NIS staff (779 out of 885 or 88%) are on the monthly payroll and, as part of
the regular civil service, are paid from the Corporate Operating Budget (COB). Of these, 687 or
88% are WRFTs who, in addition to being involved in IA development, also undertake to
coordinate water distribution, preparation of cropping plans and ISF collection. Their
involvement in IA development is only part-time, leaving only 92 regular staff participating in
the IDP on a full-time basis. Of the remaining 106 staff 100 are IDOs, paid from the projects on a
contractual basis and, as already noted, previous experience has indicated that IDOs without a
secure term of employment seem to undertake a results-oriented program without full
commitment. The FIOs are paid for only one year. In principle, it is expected that they will
continue to operate in advisory capacity once the IA is organized but only few continue to
operate in this role without compensation.
Procedures Followed in IA development
14.  The steps involved in the development of the lAs in NIS are as follows:
Step 1 Organizing the TSA groups, which discuss the operational and physical problems,
select the TSA leaders and discuss the draft of the constitution and by-laws that
will govern their IA. On being assigned to a village the IDO's first task is to
identify potential leaders through formal and informal discussions. Potential
leaders are appointed as officers (chairman, secretary, treasurer, turnout leaders)
and together comprise the IA committee.
Step 2 Formation of the IA. All TSA leaders, serving as elected representatives, ratify
theconstitution and by-laws of the IA and elect officers of the IAs as well as the
other members to the various committees that oversee the many functions of the
IA. These, inter alia, include:
-     By-laws: to review NIA standard by-laws and modify them as needed.
-     SEC Registration: to apply for secure legal status for the IA;
-     Water Permit: to apply for permission from the National Water Resources
Council to enable the IA to secure water rights and distribute water to
members
-     Rig1ht-of-y: to negotiate the right-of-way on behalf of the IA from the
members or others involved as the case may be.
-     Membership: to recruit and screen farmers for membership of the IA. The
membership fee is P5. In addition members pay an annual contribution of
PlO.
-     Finance and Audit,



- 138 -
Annex 8
Page 4 of 16
Others include Training, Service, and Grievance and Manpower Inventory
to establish manpower available to assist in construction.
Step 3 Registration of the IA with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Step 4 Granting of NIA contracts, which is done after a series of meetings that lead to the
signing of a memorandum of understanding after which the IAs are eligible
toreceive contracts under the Management Turnover Program (MTP).
Policies and Procedures for the CIS
15.   Policies. Prior to commencement of a CIS, the IA is expected to comply with some basic
requirements. Membership of the IA is expected to be at least 80% of the total beneficiaries of
the scheme. The beneficiaries are expected to contribute at least 10% of the total cost in equity
through cash contributions, labor or right of way.
Procedures followed in Developing the CIS
16.   Detailed procedures have been developed, and documented, to guide the staff planning
and implementing CIS schemes and assist in the development of the lAs. The procedures are
formalized and provide the legal basis for transferring responsibility to the lAs.
17.   Once some farmers have expressed an interest in developing an irrigation scheme, the
IDO should be located in the village in about six to nine months in advance of scheme
development to organize the IA.
18.   Prior to designing the facility, a general layout is prepared the NIA and a walk-through is
conducted with farmers in each sector. Farmers' views are thus solicited prior to the presentation
of the layout design to the IA general assembly.
19.   Once the designs are approved, detailed estimates and the Plan of Work (POW) is
prepared as prerequisites for release of funds from NIA. This covers schedules for procurement
and delivery of materials, equipment, manpower and finance. The POW is also presented to the
IAs for suggestions prior to finalization. With the design and program of work finalized, some
two to four preconstruction conferences are held to agree on, and finalize: (a) the implementation
schedules; (b) IA's role and participation; and (c) the formation of construction committees. The
procedures and systems for construction are established and agreed upon, after which a
memorandum of understanding (MOU) is drawn up stipulating the rights and obligations of NIA
and the IA during the construction and the O&M phases with a view to assuring that the IA will
play a major role in providing needed manpower and help in executing the sub-project.
20.   At this point NIA also undertakes an IA viability study to assess its capabilities.
Assuming that the review is satisfactory, sub committees are mobilized to assist NIA in
procurement (Canvass, Bidding and Procurement), manpower mobilization, quality control, cost
control and mobilization of farmers' counterpart (equity).



- 139 -
Annex 8
Page 5 ofl6
21.   Prior to project turnover, a test-run of completed facilities is held jointly by NIA and the
IA. A further "walk through" and an inventory of facilities is prepared. Claims on technical
deficiencies are jointly investigated and, if found justified, a report is prepared. Repairs and
subsequent works arising from the joint investigation are not charged to the IA loan.
22.   An O&M  conference is held to review  procedures, identify O&M  needs and
responsibilities and appoint personnel or reactivate O&M committees as the case may be.
Turnover takes place within six months of sub-project completion. Financial turnover entails IA
acceptance of the total chargeable costs incurred and the amortization schedule. Physical
turnover entails the transfer and acceptance of facilities.
23.   At the start of the O&M, membership is updated, the organization of personnel is
reviewed (if necessary elections are held to replace the officer involved in the earlier stages) and
the by-laws revised. A system management plan is prepared comprising the proposed cropping
plan, a basic water distribution, a maintenance plan. At this point a second IA evaluation in also
undertaken, and if the IA is found viable, the IDO may be withdrawn although he or she may
continue contact with the IA on an intermittent basis.
IA Training
24.   The Training is geared to assisting the IA in managing the associations and the schemes.
The training modules, which have been developed with the experience gathered to date, include:
(a)   The Basic Leadership Development Course (BLDC). This three to four day course
is given immediately after the IA is established. It aims to strengthen the
leadership capabilities of its officers and emphasizes the process of group
dynamics, interaction and feedback, and skills needed in leadership.
(b)   Financial Management Training (FMT). The course, aimed at efficient
management of lAs finances, is provided before the project is formally handed
over. The three/four day course is given to the IA officers and the finance
committees members.
(c)   System Management Training (SMT) to improve the capability of the service
committee to operate and maintain the scheme.
25.   The above training modules have already been developed by the Head Office Staff, who
have, in turn trained selected Regional level staff to conduct the training programs. The IA
training is conducted at NIA's Regional Training Centers or some other training venue on a batch
basis. The emphasis is on formal training. Whenever considered necessary, some of the above
training modules are combined and given with other relevant courses with bookkeeping, audit
and other management aspects.



- 140 -
Annex 8
Page 6 of 16
The Management Turnover Contracts
26.  In the early stages of the development of the PAP, lAs were offered three types of
contracts that were meant to lead to progressively greater managerial responsibility in the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes, namely:
Stage I     Maintenance Contracts, under which the lAs are responsible for
maintaining the canals at a contractual rate of P660/month/3.5 kms.
Stage II    The Joint System Management Contract, under which IAs take over the
O&M responsibilities within the IA area. The compensation paid to the IA
is based on the break-even point. ISF collections below the break-even
point are shared between NIA and the IA in the ratio of 60:40. If the ISF
collections exceed the break-even point, NIA receives 40% of the ISF and
the IA, 60%.
Stage III    Full Turnover Contracts, under which the IA is given full responsibility
for the O&M of the facility. Once the irrigation scheme is turned over, the
IA amortizes the chargeable costs of the scheme, much like the Communal
Irrigation Schemes.
27.   Following a review of the experience of the "Stage Contracts" in 1988, a new set of
management contracts were conceptualized to overcome some of the problems encountered as
the lAs tended to focus on ISF collection rather than maintenance of the facilities. particularly in
Stage II contracts. The new contracts are referred to as Types I, II and Type III. lAs can opt
either for the Type I or Type II or Type I and II combined.
Type I      Maintenance Contract, which is similar to the Stage 1 contract although
the lAs are given a higher compensation of P1,100/month/3.5kms to
maintain the canals. The higher rate offered reflects the increased
maintenance costs.
Type II     ISF contract under which the lAs assist (campaign for payment or collect)
in the collection of payments from the farmers. The incentive structure is
as follows:
Collection           Incentives
below 50%                0%
50 - 60%               2%
60 - 70%                5%
70 - 90%               10%
90 -100%               15%
back accounts          25%



- 141 -
Annex 8
Page 7 of 16
Type III    Full Turnover Contract, which is essentially similar to the Stage III
contract.
Status of MTP Coverage
28.   Since the inception of the program, the coverage in terms of numbers, has been
impressive. As of December 1994, NIA had organized a total 4,474 IAs reaching a coverage of
89% of the targeted 4,978 IAs (see Table 2) that are to be formed under the MTP for both NIS
and the CIS. Some 89% of the targets have been met in CIS schemes and the corresponding
figure in case of NIS is 92%. Some 1,827 groups have been organized (94.4% coverage) in NIS
on an area of over 552,000 ha with over 444,000 farmers. Of these, 1,778 lAs have been
registered and 1,542 had been given contracts but some have not renewed them. As a result, as of
May 1995, some 1,520 lAs had contracts.
29.   The IAs seem to have received more of the Type I, Type II, Stage II and combined Type I
and Type II contracts rather than either Stage I or Type III/Stage III contracts. Stage I is less
popular as lAs receive lower payments than the Type I contracts. As of December 1993, of the
1,520 IAs that had received contracts, 478 (32%) had received for Type I contracts (Table 3).
The corresponding figures for Stage I, Stage II, Type II and Types I and II combined), were 15
(1%), 100 (7%), 411 (27%) and 474 (31%) respectively. It is interesting to observe, however,
that very few lAs --only 41 lAs (2.7%) -- were working with Type III and Stage III contracts,
under which the lAs have full responsibility for ISF collections and for the O&M of their
schemes. In this sense, the PAP as is it being implemented at present, has achieved only limited
success.
30.   The broad breakdown analyzed by the type of responsibilities that IAs have undertaken to
handle are as follows:
Responsibility         Type of Contracts   Numbers    % of Total
Maintenance       Type I and Stage I       493  32.4
Oper/ISF Coll.             Type II         986  64.9
Full responsibility       Stage III         41   2.7
Total                       1,520          100.0
Reviews of the IDP
31.   There have been selected studies to evaluate either the performance of the PAP in general
or selected modifications to the program. These include:



- 142 -
Annex 8
Page 8 of 16
1)    The Management Turnover of a Pump Irrigation System in The Philippines: The
Farmers Way l/. The study based on the experience of a single Pump Irrigation
Scheme in the Angat Masim Rivers Irrigation System concluded that:
(a)   employing selected and well trained farmers in organizing co-farmers can
lead to active lAs at the field and distributory levels at lower costs and
with better collection efficiency.
(b)   Compared with the previous approach with IDOs, use of FIOs in
organizing activities can be shortened, made less expensive and be
effective.
(c)   rehabilitation and institutional development must go hand-in-hand.
2)    Farmers participation in National Irrigation Systems in the Philippines: Lessons
Learned /. The study concluded that:
a)    IA development requires change, which is at times resisted by those
implementing the program. Firm policies and support are required at the
highest level to promote participatory approaches.
(b)   In order to make farmers' participation effective, farmers have to be
organized by methods that build capacity for decision making during the
organizing process. From this point of view, the procedures followed in
CIS are more effective than those followed in the NIS.
3)    An Evaluation of the Impact of the Farmers's Participation in the NIS
Performance 3/.
This study attempted to assess of the impact of the PAP on 77 NIS schemes. The
IAs selected had been organized between 1982 and 1991 and the objective was to
compare the performance of the MTP and the non-MTP systems in terms of
collection efficiency (CE), repair and maintenance costs (RM), personnel costs
(PC), dry season benefitted area (DSBA) and dry season rice yields (DSRY). It
appears that on all accounts, the MTP schemes fared better than non-MTP
schemes. The CE was 60% in MTP areas and 43% in non-MTP areas. The RM
costs were, on average, some 30% lower in the MTP areas than the non-MTP
areas -- the figures for 1991 being P380/ha and P540/ha respectively. The PC
costs in MTP areas were also lower (P340/ha vs. P450/ha) which, the study
IIMI Country Paper - The Philippines - No. 2
2/NIACONSULT, INC. December 1993.
3/NIACONSULT, INC.- 1993.



- 143 -
Annex 8
Page 9 of 16
attributed to the displacement of the ditchtenders. The DSBA in MTP schemes
increased by 40% as compared to 20% for non MTP areas.
II. ISSUES
32.   There is little doubt that the PAP program has been successful in achieving a number of
the objectives established at the inception of the program (better water distribution, lower costs
and better CE). However, a number of problems have arisen and need to be addressed to secure
the accomplishments achieved so far and, where possible, improve on the base already
developed. These are:
(a)   Voluntary Membership. Not all farmers served by the TSBA are members,
making it difficult for the leaders to enforce discipline on all farmers in a TSBA.
NIA has taken the position that in view of the past experience in Philippines with
farmers groups, participation in a TSBA should be voluntary. Valid as this
argument may be, the failure to enforce discipline among members is proving
expensive for NIA and some other solution needs to be explored.
(b)   Weak IAs. Not all IAs that have received contracts are strong and coherent. Data
on the number of lAs that are effective are not available, but it is becoming
increasingly apparent that some 50% of the lAs developed so far are facing
difficulties in fulfilling the terms of their contracts leaving NIA in a difficult
position. On one hand, NIA must pay the lAs to fulfill its obligations under the
contract and, on the other, it continues to incur additional expenditures to collect
funds and maintain the facilities.
(c)   Failure to Enforce the Terms of the Contracts. In a joint management set-up such
as the NIS it is important that both parties meet their contractual obligations,
failing which either party should have some recourse to compensation. NIA has to
explore ways to enforce the terms of the contract through sanctions/legal means or
better training.
(d)   Frequent Changes in Institutional Arrangements in liaising with the lAs. When
PAP was initiated, NIA employed degree holders -- (IDOs) -- to train the lAs. In
an effort to reduce costs, NIA displaced the IDOs with Watermasters who were
supported by FIOs in organizing the lAs. These changes had two negative aspects.
Firstly, the lAs lost contact with the people they trusted which had a bearing on
their attitude towards NIA. Secondly, although the FIOs were expected to
continue in advisory capacity as ex-officio members even after their stipend was
terminated, some have ceased to play this role. Farmers are generally suspicious
by nature and continued contact through trusted officials is important to ensure
both the formation of coherent lAs and to take timely action if the IA is being
misled.
(e)   Inadequate Training. Leaders are trained once and the members receive limited
training to monitor the leadership and take timely action if the leadership falters.



- 144 -
Annex 8
Page lO of 16
It is important to stress that the institutional development of IAs is a long-term
process and continued support is necessary to secure their sound development.
(f)    Conflict of Interest in NIA with Staff implementing the Program. The long-term
development of the IAs was jeopardized by NIA staff members, who feared that
they might lose their jobs if the IAs successfully implemented their contractual
obligations. The categories of staff directly effected were the IDOs and the
Ditchtenders. The ICO/IDOs were employed on a contractual basis, with their
employment terminating once the lAs were trained. Some of them, realizing that
their jobs would be terminated, deliberately did not train the lAs to ensure their
continued dependence. Further, the Ditchtenders had most to lose with the transfer
of maintenance responsibilities to the lAs and they also attempted to delay the
process.
(g)   Lack of Financial Resources has resulted in some disillusionment with the system.
Some IAs have now begun to return their maintenance contracts as NIA is unable
to pay either the IAs share of the ISF or the payments of the maintenance
contracts on time.
(h)   Shortage of Staff in NIS. The total number of IDOs working full time on the NIS
is limited. The WRFTs are supposed to facilitate the development of the lAs, but
they seem to be pre-occupied with water distribution and ISF collections. The
WRFTs perceive their role in IA development as being one aimed at legal
compliance with SEC requirements and the by-laws rather than taking a
comprehensive view of the strengths and weaknesses and addressing them either
with the support of the IDOs or through discussions with the leaders and the
members as the case may be. It was generally presumed that the FIOs once
trained would continue to act in advisory capacity, even after their stipend was
terminated. Experience has proved otherwise and some other form of
compensation would need to be explored to ensure their continued participation in
IA development.
(i)   Lack of Incentive for Leadership to be involved in ISF Collections. The IA by-
laws specifically prohibit the leadership from receiving any incentives or
compensation for spending their time on collection of ISF. It is difficult for any
one to continue contributing their time day-after-day without some remuneration,
which perhaps explains the reasons behind the IAs failure to effectively handle
Type II or Stage II contracts without support from NIA.
(j)   Lack of Comprehensive Plan for Ensuring that lAs Progressively Handle Greater
Responsibifliy. The PAP, as originally conceived had envisioned that the lAs
would progressively move from Stage I to Stage III contracts. For some
inexplicable reason, the program seems to have lost its momentum to
progressively transfer greater responsibility to the IAs.



- 145 -
Annex 8
Page 11 of 16
(k)   Inadequate Monitoring. The IDP monitoring is largely geared to reporting on
events planned for any fiscal year, rather than on the progress in tackling specific
problems faced by the IAs. This approach need to be reviewed, specifically with
respect to reporting on the number of lAs that are weak and unable to fulfil the
terms of their contracts.
(1)   Failure to Adhere to Established Polices and Procedures in Development of CIS.
Data on all CIS financed by NIA are not available, but from the limited data
available from projects financed under CIDP 2, it appears that the policies and
procedures established under CIS are not begin adhered to. Of the 83 schemes
initiated under CIDP II as of December 31, 1994, 22 had membership below the
80% required to develop a CIS. While the combined equity paid 8.34% of the
total cost (in contrast to the 10% required) in all the 83 schemes, this figure is
misleading as the amount paid in 14 schemes was below 5% and in one, as little
as 1.7%. It seems that the IDOs are no longer working with the lAs in CIS about
six to nine months in advance of initiating the construction as required by the
established procedures because the funds are released late, and this perhaps
accounts for the lower than required membership and equity contribution. The
expediency of developing schemes should not over ride the need to adhere to
established procedures as it could lead to lower arnortization payments.
In developing CIS schemes, NIA is ultimately granting a loan to the IAs and it is
important that the beneficiaries realize that NIA expects them to meet their
obligations at all stages of the development of the schemes. To this end, the
insistence on following established polices and procedures would demonstrate
NIA's resolve to recover its costs.
(m)   Lack of Established Policy on Past Dues Prior to Rehabilitation of CIS. It appears
that there is no established policy with respect to clearance of past dues when CIS
are rehabilitated. Such a policy needs to be formulated.
(n)   Outlining of Collection Procedures. The training provided to lAs does not include
training on procedures to be followed in collecting ISF overdues from its
members. These need to introduced in the training given to the members prior to
handing over the schemes.
III. SUMMARY
33.   There is little doubt that the basic framework to transfer responsibility to the IAs has
already been initiated. In fact, when measured by volume, the number of IAs formed, registered
and granted contracts is impressive. Although there is no clear picture regarding the number of
lAs that are capable of fulfilling the terms of their contracts without close supervision from NIA,
it seems increasingly apparent that a number of them are not performing up to expectations.
Preliminary results of the functionality survey conducted by the IDD in late 1995, albeit only
partial as some of the Regions had not submitted their reports, indicated that some 10% of
the lAs were very functional, another 50% moderately functional and 40% were non functional.



- 146 -
Annex 8
Page 12 of 16
On the other hand, it appears that there are a number of good lAs that can easily handle greater
responsibility, but are not doing so for some reason or another.
34.   In brief, the IA development program has, in a sense, lost momentum. More of the same
is being offered in terms of training, interaction with lAs and granting of contracts without a
comprehensive action plan to progressively encourage the lAs to undertake greater
responsibility. One example of this would be NIA billing the lAs as one entity, leaving it for
them to bill and collect from their members. This approach is not being actively pursued even
though it would be a logical step in preparation for NIA's long-term objective of wholesaling
water at the head of the lateral.
35.   As already recognized and accepted within NIA, the objective should be to ultimately
wholesale water to the lAs as and when they become fully trained to accept the responsibility of
managing the whole scheme. This important objective, which could result in savings for NIA and
the IAs, would be met only if the lAs are well established coherent entities, capable of enforcing
discipline on members and executing the terms of their contracts with NIA.
36.   If the aforementioned objective is to be met, IDP would need to be reformulated.
Considerable modifications in the incentive framework, training programs and, equally
importantly, the present approach to interfacing with the lAs would have to be made to achieve
this target. Specifically, the following aspects would need to be considered and introduced.
(a)   Incentives would need to be built-in to ensure that the IA leadership is suitably
compensated for its efforts in collecting the ISF.
(b)   There is a need to encourage greater participation by the members in decision
making while ensuring, at the same time, that the leaders have the capability to
enforce discipline on the members. In order to achieve this form of interaction, the
IDOs have to maintain close contact with the leaders and the members.
(c)   The IA instruction would need to focus on training the lAs for direct billing and
eventually for delivery of water services by NIA at the lateral head, and, in
selected NIS, for compete turnover. Moreover, the whole conceptual approach to
training would need to shift to encourage, in addition to formal training, informal
training through visits. Where possible, the leadership of the more successful lAs
would need to be encouraged to interact with the leadership of the weaker lAs.
(d)   In some cases, the endorsement of the Barangay leadership may become
necessary to prop up the leadership of the IA if it performs poorly in collecting
ISF.
(e)   In extreme cases, it may even become necessary to merge some IAs.
(f)    Because the problems faced by the IAs may differ, the IDOs would have to be
trained to recognize the problems and mobilize the leadership or the membership,
as the case may be, to respond to a wide range of issues.



- 147 -
Annex 8
Page 13 of 16
(g)   The reporting system would need to be revised to ensure that the data presented to
the management reflects the reality on the ground.
(h)   The policies and procedures should be modified taking into account the points
made in para. 31 (1),(m),and (n)).
IV. THE PROPOSED IA DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Approach
37.   Clearly the resuscitation of the IA development program will have to be initiated at the
grassroot level with the primary objective of ensuring group action and cohesion as the minimum
requirements for ensuring discipline among members. The objective would be to secure support
of the members in enforcing sanctions against recalcitrant members, while strengthening, at the
same time, the understanding of the members to monitor and control the leaders. If this basic, but
difficult, objective can be achieved at the TSA level, the foundation will have been laid to
develop strong lAs and their subsequent federation into larger tertiary level organizations.
38.  In order to secure this fundamental principle certain organizational changes will have to
be introduced. The IDOs will have to interface with the IA leadership systematically and, in
cases where the TSAs are weak, the TSA membership and leadership will have to retrained to
establish the basic principles outlined in the above paragraph.
ReQuirements
39.   The strengthening of the TSAs/IAs would require that the IDOs will have to be regularly
present at the meetings of the members, directing the affairs of the IAs in a way that all decisions
have popular support and that decisions are seen to be made by the members. This crucial point,
although basic to achieving group discipline, is not easily attained. The IDOs would need to have
a personality profile that readily wins over the confidence of the members. Moreover, they would
have to interface with the members in a way that he/she directs the group to a common cause and
purpose without appearing to do so.
40.   The approach would need time to develop. The IDOs have to be initially present at all the
IA meetings and it can take at least 12 to 18 months before a cohesive IA can emerge. The initial
IA training modules already developed by NIA would have to be supplemented by frequent visits
by the IDOs: it is anticipated that an IDO working on a fortnightly visit schedule could handle 8
lAs at a time (on the assumption that they would visit the field Monday through Thursday,
leaving Fridays for office work). It is also expected that when an IA is considered to be
functional, the intensity of the visits can be reduced and the IDO can be redeployed to work with
another IA.
41.   The training of the staff to introduce this approach would have to be conducted by the
proposed Group Organizer TA to be recruited under IOSP II. The TA would have to undertake
an active training program to assist: (a) the Regional staff to supervise the IDOs and train them
using the approach outlined above; (b) the IDOs on-the-job when they are attending IA meetings.



- 148 -
Annex 8
Page 14 of 16
42.   Unlike the past when a number of temporary staff were assigned to undertake
institutional development with poor results, the advancement of the IA development program
will have to done by a core of well trained staff that have security of tenure and are exclusively
assigned to undertake institutional development. Further, it is important that these staff be no
longer involved in ISF collections.
43.  It is, therefore, recommended that NIA develop a cadre of 174 well trained IDOs (based
on a workload of 12.5 IAs/IDO) to support IA development in the NIS. As there are only 40 IDO
positions approved, most of the staff assigned to undertake institutional work would have to be
given related positions that have been approved but remain unfilled. The Senior WRFT positions
(with assigned responsibility for undertaking, among other things, institutional development
work) seems to be ideal from this point of view. At present some 1,063 positions are authorized
for WRFTs, of which 591 are filled in. On average, therefore, NIA carries one WRFT for every
1,100 ha. Of the 472 positions vacant, some 88 positions are for Senior WRFTs, and the
remainder for WRFTs. Clearly NIA has a sufficient number of WRFT positions authorized to
select/recruit adequately qualified positions to undertake the institutional development work (see
Tables 1 and 2, and also 6 of the Project File Working Paper No. 2).
44.   Not all these positions would be required, however. At present, there are 17 staff
undertaking Institutional Development work in the head office. They are supported by 75 staff
(on COB) in the Regions and 42 IDOs recruited under IOSP II (see Table 1). Of the 75 staff
undertaking institutional development work in the Regions, 18 senior staff would be required at
the regional level to act as Senior IDOs to coordinate institutional development work and
supervise other IDOs in their respective regions, while the other 57 can be redeployed to
undertake institutional development work in the field. As there are already 57 staff available on
the COB in the Regions, only 117 additional positions would be required. These are far below
the number of WRFT positions available (472) and the proposed program can be implemented
without increasing the number of positions.
45.   The availability of these staff suggests that some 117 additional staff would need to be
identified. These can be recruited form the 42 temporary IDOs (who can be brought on the
plantillia in the Senior WRFT Positions) and the other 75 can be promoted from the WRFTs,
some of whom are very good at institutional work and can be easily retrained to follow the
approach outlined in paras 39 and 40. Where necessary, a salary supplement can be granted to
these staff for undertaking duties beyond their immediate terms of employment -- the
Government's procedures pernit payment of such supplements.
46.   However, it is also important that the NIA's payroll not be increased. It is, therefore,
recommended that the 117 WRFT positions that would be filled under the program be offset by
corresponding reductions in the number of WRFTs on the plantillia from 591 to 434 (see Tables
5 and 6 of the Project File Working Paper No. 2). This would increase the workload on the
remaining from the present 1,100 ha to 1,500 ha -- a workload that is considered manageable as
the remaining WRFTs would not be undertaking institutional development work anymore.
47.   If the proposed plan of work is accepted, the job descriptions of the Senior WRFTs
assigned to undertake institutional development and those Senior WRFTs or other WRFTs



- 149 -
Annex 8
Page 15 of 16
assigned to work exclusively as Watermasters would have to be revised. These are given in
Attachments 1, 2 and 3 respectively.
48.  In case of really poorly functioning lAs, it may become necessary to deploy the FIOs --
unfortunately on a temporary basis -- to work with the IDOs and this would have to be built in
the program. Some 2,608 FIOs may be required in the long term.
49.   Moreover, the program would have to be target driven to ensure that lAs are given
progressively greater responsibility. Each IDO would be responsible for progressively moving
the lAs from Type I/Stage I to Type II/Stage II and Type III/Stage III contracts within a specified
time period, failing which they would have to provide suitable explanations. The system would
have adequate checks and balance to ensure that the IDOs do not play the "numbers game" and
that the lAs are given greater responsibility only when they are ready for it. In order to achieve
this objective, the Regional level Senior IDOs would closely supervise all the IDOs in the field
visiting them while they are attending IA meetings and independently assessing the LAs when the
IDOs recommend them for the next contract Type.
50.   The development of this approach would require three essential conditions: namely: (a)
the job descriptions of the Senior IDOs be revised; (b) an effective monitoring system be
developed; and (c) the staff concerned be assured security of tenure, otherwise, as in the past,
they would be reluctant to transfer responsibilities to the lAs.
51.   The overall plans and targets for training the proposed 2,282 lAs to Type III/Stage III
contracts in the NIS, including those already formed and those that have yet to be developed, are
given in Tables 8 through 12 in the Project File Working Paper No. 2.
The Systems Management Committees and Farmers' Participation
52.   The development of an active participatory program, involving the beneficiaries from
planning through implementation is also essential. Although the approach would be somewhat
slower in the decision making, the longer-term benefits of improved prospects for sustaining the
development are expected to offset the costs in delayed implementation.
53.   To encourage participation, NIA proposes to formalize the existing NIA- IA dialogue
through the formation of the Systems Management Committees (SMCs), which would be formed
to: (a) reflect the farmers' views and experiences in the management of the schemes; (b) reach an
agreement on the key aspects to improve the systems; and (c) to promote an active NIA - IA
partnership. Specifically, the SMCs undertake to (a) plan the overall activities; (b) identify and
implement proposed improvements along the same lines as the CIS; (c) inspect and approve, and
(in the case of the IAs) accept completed improvement works; and (d) monitor and evaluate the
individual IAs and the overall system performance.
54.   Each SMC would comprise the Irrigation Superintendent or the District Chief (IS/DC),
Presidents of the IAs and the Heads of the Finance, billing and Collection Sections in the IS.
Outside agencies may be invites as and when necessary. The SMC would be chaired by the
IS/DC and the Vice Chairman would be one of the presidents of the lAs.



- 150 -
Annex 8
Page 16 of 16
55.    The approach is basically sound. With some minor modifications in the contracts
proposed (for example, clarification of the actions open to NIA, if the IA fails to perforn), the
SMC approach should be tried in all the 18 schemes under IOSP II. If considered replicable, the
SMC concept would be expanded to systems under WRDP and other NIS.
The Proposed Project Component
56.   The objective of the component would be to develop the 2,207 lAs in NIA (that is,
excluding those covered by ISOP II) to undertake either Type III or Joint management contracts
effectively by the time WRDP is completed.
57.   Project costs would include funds for class room training of the lAs (financial
management, basic leadership, systems operation and monitoring) which would be supplemented
by on-the-job training by the IDOs. Project costs would also include funds for initial re-training
of the IDOs using the approach outlined above, six monthly seminars for IDOs which would be
based on case studies and an active information exchange program. In addition, funds have been
provided to recruit about 1,000 FIOs for a period of one year each to assist the IDOs at the TSA
level in case of very weak lAs. About 830 FIOs are expected to be recruited for the WRDP and
the rest for other NIS. The costs and phasing of the component for WRDP is given in Table 13 of
the Project File Working Paper No. 2. The unit cost of the training is given in Attachment 4.
58.   Project funds would also be provided for developing an effective monitoring and
evaluation system (3 person-months of consultancies) for tracking the development of the ]As. In
addition, it is anticipated that as the lAs become strong they would be federated into larger
bodies that would undertake system operation and maintenance of larger schemes. Some 12
person-months of consultancies would be required for developing these Federations, capitalizing
them and in initiating their operations.
59.   The following measures would be essential to successfully implement the IA
development program:
(a)   the identification and placement of the 57 IDOs to be transferred from the ROs to
the field; and
(b)   the identification and training of the WRFTs that would be working as IDOs. It is
important that all staff handling institutional development work have a personality
profile given in para 39. All staff affected by the program, including the WRFTs
that operate only as Watermasters, should be given their revised job descriptions
before they undertake their new duties.



- 151 -
ANNEX8
Attachment 1
The Proposed Responsibilities of the Water Resources Facilities
Technicians (WRFT)
In close coordination with the lAs, the WRFT would supervise and operate, the
irrigation facilities under his area of control, productive and efficient. Specifically, the
WRFT would assist the IS to:
(a)   orient the farmers, through the lAs, in NIA's policies and guidelines on
irrigation operations;
(b)   assist the IS, with participation of the IAs in planning O&M activities;
(c)   implement the O&M plan in cooperation with the lAs and the members;
(d)   maintain operations records for his area, and submit consolidate reports,
based on IA operations records, on irrigated and planted areas, water
deliveries and distribution, crop failures, harvested/benefitted areas,
payments of ISF fees and damages to irrigation facilities and structures;
(e)   In selected lAs with only maintenance contracts, supervise through the
lAs, the distribution of ISF bills to the farmers; and
(g)   perform other related functions as may be required by the IS.



- 152 -
ANNEX8
Attachment 2
The Proposed Responsibilities of the Institutional
Development Officers (IDOs)
In close coordination with the Senior Institutional Development Officers develop
the lAs to manage their own internal affairs and progressively handle greater
responsibility, gradually moving form undertaking maintenance contracts to maintenance
and ISF collection and finally, managing the entire area under their control. In the context
the IDO would:
(a)    work with TSA members to identify the right leaders that would represent
them in the lAs;
(b)    guide, without appearing to do so, to question the leadership about the
affairs the lAs;
(c)    enhance group awareness in enforcing discipline among non-performing
or non-paying members;
(d)    assist the leadership in maintaining records and present them regularly to
the members;
(e)    ensure compliance with all SEC requirements;
(f)    assist the WRFTs to orient farmers in NIAs policies and guidelines and
operations;
(g)    conduct IA functionality survey, evaluate the performance of the lAs and
its leadership and recommend them for training programs, when
necessary; and
(h)    undertake any other activity that the IS or the SDO may require.



- 153 -
ANNEXS
Attachment 3
The Proposed Responsibilities of the Senior Institutional
Development Officers (SDOs)
The SDO would provide regional support to Irrigation systems offices in
undertaking IA development. Specifically, the SDO would:
(a)   supervise all IA development activity in the regions;
(b)   monitor the performance of all IA and provide periodic reports to the
Institutional Development Department in the head office.
(c)   conduct/arrange for all training of the IA members and their officers as
necessary;
(d)   conduct/arrange training for IDOs when necessary;
(e)   from time to time visit all IDOs in the field and supervise them when they
are conducting meetings in the field;
(f)   develop a program to systematically give greater responsibility to the lAs
and monitor its progress;
(g)   personally assess those lAs that are recommended for a progressively
greater responsibility before such contracts are granted; and
(h)   undertake any other responsibility that the ROs or the IDD may, from time
to time, require.



- 154 -
ANNEX8
Attachment 4
Page 1 of 3
IA/IDO TRAINING
All the training programs for the SDO shall be initiated by the IDOs with the
assistance of the SDOs. The IDO will provide the post-training guidance to the 1A
officers and members that have undergone training.
I1.   In areas without IA contract, the IA shall be provided the following training
programs:
(a) Basic Leadership and Organizational Discipline (BLOD) - for IA Officers (3
days);
(b) Financial Management (FM) - for IA President, Vice-Presidents, and TSA
Leaders (3 days);
(c)   Basic Systems Operations and Monitoring (BSOM) - for IA Presidents,
Vice-Presidents, and TSA Leaders (r days);
(d)   Basic Agricultural Support Services Supervision  and Monitoring
(BASSSM) - for IA Presidents, Vice-Presidents and TSA Leaders - (2
days); and
(e)   Basic  Systems  Operation,  Agricultural  Support  Services  and
Organizational Operation and Discipline (BSOASSOD) - for all IA
members (2 days).
2.   In areas with IA with or without contract, the las shall be provided the appropriate
development training programs. However, these will be based on:
(a)   the results of the IA functionality survey;
(b)   the present NIA-IA management contracts they have; and
(c)   the next NIA-IA management contract they would to have.
3.    The development training programs will include the following:
(a)   Maintenance Supervision and Monitoring (MSM) - for IA officers and
TSA Leaders (2 days);
(b)   Operation and tSA Supervision and Monitoring (OISM) - for IA Officers
and TSA Leaders (e days);



- 155 -
ANNEX8
Attachment 4
Page 2 of 3
(c)   Systems Operation and Monitoring (SOM) - for IA Officers and TSA
Leaders (5 days);
(d)   Organizational Policies and Discipline (OPD) - for IA Officers and TSA
Leaders (3 days); and
(e)   Systems Operation, Agricultural Support Services and Organizational
Discipline Orientation (SOASSOD) - for IA Members (3 days).
4.    In view of the changes in the way systems operation is undertaken with the lAs
gradually taking over responsibilities, the IDO shall likewise be trained in:
(a)   Systems Operation and Monitoring (SOM) - 4 days;
(b)   IA Management and Supervisions (IMS) - 3 days; and
(c)   Basic Post-Training Support and Evaluation (BPTSE) - 3 days.
5.    Likewise, the regional staff who will provide the guidance and support to the field
staff shall be provided training by the Central Office Staff and these shall include
planning and supervision of:
(a)   Systems Operation and Monitoring (SOM) - 5 days;
(b)   IA Management and Supervision (IMS) - 4 days; and
(c)   Basic Post-Training Support and Evaluation (BPTSE) - 4 days.
6.    The per unit cost of the various training programs is given in the following Table.



- 156 -                             ANNEX 8
Attachment 4
Page 3 Of 3
TRAINING COST
IA Traininas: (15 IAs with 120 TSAs with 1.950 Members)
Particulars           Number      Expected No.    Cost Per        Total        Cost/
of             of        Participants/   Costs         IA
Training Days   Participants   Day (Pesos)    (Pesos)
a. IA Organization:
BLOD                                  3            120         90.00        32,400
FM                                    3            180         90.00        48,600
BSOM                                  4            150         90.00        54,000
BASSSM                                             150         90.00        27.000
BSOASSOD (TSA Leaders)                2            675         90.00       121.500
Total                      14          2,550         90.00      283,500   18,900.00
b. IA Development:
MISM                                  2            120         90.00    21,600.00
OISM                                  3            120         90.00    32,400.00
SOM                                   5            120         90.00     54.000.00
OPD                                   3            120         90.00    32.400.00
SOASSODO                              3            675         90.00    121.500.00
Total                      16          2,430         90.00   305.100.00   20,340.00
IDO TRAINING
Particulars           Number      Expected No.    Cost Per        Total        Cost/
of             of        Participants/   Costs      Participant
Training Days   Participants   Day (Pesos)    (Pesos)
SOM                                   5              6        230.00      6,900.00
IAMS                                  3              6        230.00      4,140.00
BPTSE                                 3              6        230.00      4,140.00
Total                     I1               6        230.00    15,180.00     2,530.00



1:: _-   _                         _ _          ,   |-|PHILIPPINES                   I
Water Resources Development Piolect
.        ...             --              - Table 1  1 Irrigators' Association Component
Table I  Manpower Deployed (as of September 1995)
_.  _  __   ___   _   .           Area  Covered  by
Particulars:  CO        RIO                                                                     ------    T o t a I
:______  :______                      : _______  IOSP              VWRDP                ISIP             Other NIS           Projects
Dept Mgr                 I :                                                                                                                    
Div Mgrs       .         2                  9:                                       . _ 11
IOC-A                     4: ____              ___                                                                                                             4
IDC-B       _                               9:                 .                        .                                                                      9:
Supvg ID:814..                                                                                                                                                22:
Sr   :_=   __.____   __    1 .                                                       . .1 :4
AgrIc                       .       _      1:                               . _                                                                 .               8:
Rur Soc:_                _                  7:                                                                                                                  7:
Econ      ____              ___             4:                                                                                                                 4:
IDO-A   :_______ .      .                             .                                                                                                        2:
Tolal_                 17__  :__75__  _                                                                                54    __           6   __ __          110..  _ 
FIO       _    _ _      _::_-6:
 -                         -   -                 *.  ----~~~~~~.*     ---- - ---- -
Total:____             17:                75:               152:               245:                31:               269:                  0:               789:
Note:   _ ___=_ __ ____==         
Data on number of WRFTs are from Personnel and Records Mana ement Deparlment               .
0 X
m X



- 158 -
Philippines                                     ANNEX 8
Water Resources Development Project                         Table 2
Irrigators' Associations Component
Table 2. Sr. WRF Technician/WRF Technician Stats as of September 1995
Sr. WRF Technician              :     WRF Technician
Responsibility   .------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Center         Authorized   Filled-up   Vacant      Authorized   Filled-up   Vacant
Region 1         :         20          8          12            75         31          44
Region 2         :         10         10           0            50          14         36
Region 3         :         26         24           2            91         46          45
Region 4         :         23         23           0            74         40          34
Region 5         .         13           9          4            33         11          22
Region 6         :         23          8          15            69         40          29
Region 7&8                 19         13           6            22           5         17
Region 9         :          5          3           2            14          8           6
Region 10                  12          7           5            47         22          25
Region 11        :         17          6          11            73         37          36
Region 12                   9          5           4            54         32          22
UPRIIS           :         89         76          13            43         17          26
MRIIS            :          0          0           0:          106         77          29
CAR            :           24         10          14            22          9          13
Total               290         202          88  :       773         389        384



Philippines
Water Resources Development Project
Table 3. Status of IA Organization as of December 1994
All Regions
Region  Category Number Service Target JNumber                       |                      |
or      of      of   Area in No. of   of        lAs Organized          lAs Registered    4 lAs with Contracts/Turnover
Proiect  Svstem Svstems   ha  |As  Farmers Nurnber |Area,haa Members4Number JArea,ha IMember. Number Area.ha IMembers
I      NIS        21  44,546   115 139,453    115  44,456 139,453    100  43,165 120,554      78  26,082   29,489
CIS      757  53,048   757  71,104    543  37,911  50,815    477  35,690  44,728    477  35,690   44,672
CAR      NIS         1  17,551    19   4,098      19   4,861   3,120     16   4,380   2,920     12   4,063    2,597
CIS      339  23,391   339  26,082    339  13,846  22,392    323   8,948  13,370    289  13,846   22,392
11     NIS        16  22,204   144  21,262      92  21,726  19,669     87  21,726  19,869     63  21,525   19,761
CIS      200  21,418   200  11,397    110  11,781   9,938    110  11,781   9,936    110  11,781    9,938
MRIIS    NIS         4  80,165   359  51,645    359  80,165  51,645    346  77,573   9,938    346  77,573   50,425
III     NIS        9  60,088   239  47,246    191  43,160  24,392    184  39,530  22,384    144  29,656   17,670
CIS      246  49,684   246  22,384    206  41,596  19,890    202  40,406  19,234    181  34,132   17,005
UPRIIS    NIS         4 102,290   345  61,234    346 102,642  61,459    344 102,056  61,120    341 100,676   60,938
IV      NIS        31  52,228   140  33,398    105  39,785  25,022    100  38,737  24,297      46  13,895   11,786
CIS      326  29,916   326  22,959    326  29,916  22,959    326  29,916  22,959    326  29,916   22,959
V       NIS       14  20,804    63  22,952      60  21,507  14,453      60  21,507  14,453     60  21,507   14,453
CIS      200  22,780   200  21,247    200  22,780  21,247    199  21,917  20,782    199  21,917   20,782
VI      NIS        13  52,378    79  39,255     79  42,610  22,827      79  42,610  20,364     67  35,191   16,570
CIS      152   8,116   152  10,343    152   8,116  10,343    152   8,116  10,343    152   8,116   10,343
Vil-Vil   NIS       16  15,842    62  15,785      62  12,316   8,260     62  12,316   8,760     53   8,950    7,148
CIS      263  38,898   263  29,659    263  14,141  28,856    263  13,171  28,856    259  12,421   28,506
IX      NIS         4  14,578    18   4,310      18   7,011   3,246     18  7,011   3,246      18   7,011    3,246
CIS       82  12,834    82   8,186      82   8,781   8,186      78   8,671   7,834     78   8,671    7,834
X       NIS        9  31,737    73  16,501      73  23,989  11,889      73  23,989  11,689     65  14,495    7,432
CIS      152  23,287   152  20,597    152  23,287  19,153    152  23,287  19,153    152  23,287   19,153
Xl      NIS        16  49,684   168  41,245    168  39,645  30,630    168  39,645  30,630    140  35,267
CIS      132  27,173   132  18,098    130  20,285  16,392    130  20,285  16,392    130  20,285   16,392
XII     NIS         7  40,172    66  26,262      69  40,917  15,186     68  40,172  14,729     65  37,172   14,140
CIS      127  26,166   127  12,051    127  26,166  12,051    124  25,746  10,838    116  24,388   10,636
BHIP     NIS         1   4,960    13  2,267       13   4,960   2,145     13  4,960   2,145
ISIP     NIS        5  25,578    63  11,574      58  21,214   9,156      58  21,214   9,156     55                       >
K|ADP     NIP        1  11,500    12   5,865       2   1,480    882        2   1,480    882                            lb |
MMP      NIP         1  10,840    10   4,549                                                                           c 1 .
SPIADP    CIS        12   4,180    12   1,105      15   5,250   1,184     13   4,300   1,127      3    900       330    m  x
Sub-total  NIS       1731 657,145  1,988 548,901   1,829 552,444 443,434, 1,778 542,071 377,136   1,553 433,063  255,655  l
Sub-total  CIS     2,988 340,8911 2,9881 275,2121  2,6451 263,8561 243,4061  2,549 252,234 225,552  2,472' 245,3501| 230,942___
lGrand-tot.il     1 3,161 998.0361 4.9761024,1131 4.474 816.3001686.8401 4.327 794.305 602.6881 4.025 678,4131 486.5970



Philippines
Water Resources DeveloPment Project
Table 4. Summary of lAs with Different Type of Contract
Asof May 31, 1995
TOTAL                                   TYPE  I                                TYPE II
Region             No. of     Area   |Length of   No. of 1 No. of     Area    LengthNo.   oo. of    No. of   Area   1 Length of
l   lAs   IFarmers I       I Canals    lAs   | Farmers                                I  Canals    lAs    Farmers  I Canals
1          90    35,848   29,619.36    704.49       60    23,084  19,101.74    413.12       12    8,602   6,438.00    148.00
11          77    22,012   26,869.13    585.46       7     3,338   3,892.00     82.33       26     4,905   7,164.15    154.00
III        100    19,580   24,944.34    622.78       3       249     456.97      7.37
IV          46     9,798   12,390.30    313.36       11     2,615   3,861.97    74.36       12    2,622   4,924.37      60.00
V           58    24,493   19,461.97    363.76      19      5,834   5,787.56    133.55       1     2,000     740.00     26.00
VI          61    16,651   32,619.00    386.72       24     6,447  12,334.00    152.44       4       710   1,704.00      5.00
VlI & Vill     47     8,046    9,235.55    340.23      44     7,324   8,147.13    286.88
IX          18     3,940    6,903.00    108.73       10     1,947   3,669.00    67.86        1       120     182.00
X           67    13,272   24,532.87    374.26      37      6,918  14,301.98    206.46       2       426     743.03     16.00
Xi         163    31,473   56,112.53    954.78      152    27,659  52,948.48    867.72      11    3,814   3,164.05      87.00
XII         70    26,099   38,755.66    478.66        1       918   1,876.75    24.09         1       48      115.00     2.00
UPRIIS
D-1          94    17,469   23,301.00    365.13       17     5,378   4,604.34    63.87       77    12,091   18,696.56    301.26
D-2          86    15,805   23,513.00    346.43       35     7,322   9,183.87    129.61      51      8,483  14,329.37    216.82
D-3         123    19,664   28,014.00    588.01       34     5,642   6,619.53    120.33      89    14,022  21,394.47    467.68
D-4          80    11,272   22,635.00    373.73        4      548      905.81    16.35       76    10,724  21,729.42    357.38
MARIIS
D-1          94    13,814   20,218.91    319.64                                              17      1,715   2,975.33
D-2          85    12,883   19,455.47    307.50       20     2,865   4,618.23    73.02        8      1,069   1,584.14                >
D-3          84    10,281    17,944.00    287.93                                              9       779   1,886.00                z
D-4          77    12,227,   2,010.92    237.18                                              14    2,082    54.3 - --                t
Total 1   1.5201 324,6271438.536.0101 8058.781    4781 108.088 1152,309.361 2,719,361 -4111 74212.001112,814.281    1841  o  X >
0
Li



Continuadon...
Philippines
Water Resources Development Proiect
Table 4. Summary of lAs with Different Type of Contract
As of May 31, 1996
______     TYPE  III                   [             STAGE I           _                         STAGE  II
Region    No. of  | No. of    Area   [Length of   No. of    No. of      Area   | Length of  No. of     No. of      Area   } Length ot
lAs    Farmers [             Canas      LAs     Farmers              Canais      Lbs    Famers                Canas
I            7     1,520   1,467.00     49.96        4                           14.85        1       513     420.00     18.00
11                                                                                           17     6,650   6,744.25    155.62
III   ________                      ________          5      986    1,353.20     25.99       14      2,633   3,305.49    78.40
IV                                                    6       842     964.00     44.72        6      2,067     951.16     30.85
V            9 _     532      648.00     15.80                                                10     8,155   3,284.06     40.92
VI                                                                                             3     1,242    1,171.00    31.50
VIl &VIII                                                                                        3       722    1,088.42    53.35
IX
XII           1       202     466.00                                                           5     3,102   4,618.37     91.39
UPRIIS
D- 1
D-2
D-3
D-4
MARIIS
D- 1                                                                                           14     2,665    3,730.38    66.51  '    b -
D-2                                                                                            10     2,720    3,461.90    54.82       z
OQ V t
D-3                                                                                             5     1,118    1,629.00    28.76  r     M
D-4  | _         I                                 _                                           121    2,5551   4,047.55    53.81     M. x
TO      LI       17 224    2,581.001    65.761            151    1,8281  2.317.2       .561      1001   34,1421  34,451.581   703.93  o >c
0



Continuation...
Philippines
Water Resources Devebpment Project
Table 4. Summary of lAs with Different Type of Contract
Asof May 31, 1995
STAG E  III                             TYPE  I & II
Regori   No o      No. of N   Area    Lengh of  No. of    No. of     Area    Length of
[As    Farmers              Canals    lAs    Farmers               Canas
4     1,129   1,127.00    34.58        2     1,000   1,06562     25.99
II          4      2,354   3,305.00    67.87       23     4,765   5,763.73    125.63
III          5     2,200   2,533.23    70.25       73    13,512  17,295.45    440.77
IV                                      6.18        7      1,408   1,43280     30.95
V            9      532      648.00    43.71        11    6,170   6,405.35    104.23
VI                                                  30     8,252  17,410.00    197.90
VIl &VIII       _
DC                                                   7     1,873   3,05200     40.87
X                                                  28      5,928   9,487.86    151.49
XII          1       202     466.00                 62    21,829  31,679.54    361.19
UPRIIS8
D- 1
D-2
D-3 
D-4
MARIIS
D-1                                                  63     9,434  13,513.20    253.13
D-2                                                  47     6,229   9,791.20    179.66
D-3                                                  70     8,384  14,429.00    259.17
D-4   .                                              51     7,590  10,918.99,   183.37 _    _   _    _   _
ITOTAL        23  6,4;       8,079.231  222.59       4      96,3741 142,244. 74  j2_,354._351_  _ 
O(D >q
0
I-h
U.



- 163 -
ANNEX 9
FPEPINS
WATER RESOURCESR DEVEL,OPMENT PROJECT
Draft TOR for NIA's Environment Unit
1.      It is considered important for NIA to do something to better institutionalize environmental and
watershed management within the organization, both to improve the effectiveness of existing watershed
management activities and its ability to secure environmental approvals for new developments in the
future. The potential scope of responsibilities of an environmental/watershed management Unit or
Division is suggested in the table below. The most important means of implementing these suggestions
is to institutionalize environmental and watershed management capacity within NIA by creating a
permanent Unit or Division within either PDD or SMD for implementing such work and to increase the
number of permanent positions assigned to such work. No technical assistance is required to take these
actions, although there is little doubt that any decisions on strengthening environmental management
capacity in NIA would be better informed if a suitable needs assessment was carried out. Provision has
been made in the project for 3 months of consultancy support to: (a) carry out an in-depth analysis of
NIA's environmental assessment and management (including watershed management) needs as a basis
for preparing recommendations to NIA's senior management on the establishment and staffing of a
permanent Unit or Division within NIA; and (b) provide some on-the-job training in environmental
impact assessment to the staff of the Unit or Division. The consultancy could be combined with that
proposed for the implementation of the sediment monitoring activities funded under the project.
Area of Activity                                      Particulars
Environmental Managament    * formulation, review, revision and update of NIA corporate environmental policies;
* preparation of Initial Environmental Examinations, Project Descriptions,
Environmental Characterization, and Environmental Impact Statements for new NIA
developments;
* managing all environmental approval procedures on behalf of NIA (liaison with
DENR, public consultations, etc.);
* in-house training and technical assistance on environmental design, management
and approvals procedures;
* technical assistance on design of environmental monitoring and management plans
for new and existing developments in accordance with ECC conditionalities;
* preparation of environmental management guidelines for use by field units;
Environmental Monitoring     * auditing/supervision of implementation of environmental management and
monitoring plans;
* reporting of ECC conditionality compliance to DENR/LGU/NGOs;
* carrying out and/or supervising environmental monitoring of new and existing
developments;
* data collation and review;
Watershed Management         * characterization of watersheds of irrigation projects for input to project feasibility
studies and design of watershed management plans;
* erosion assessments in watersheds of existing irrigation schemes to provide a basis
for ameliorative work;
* sedimentation assessments (sources and quantities);
* assessment of effectiveness of watershed management plans by field inspections
and monitoring;
* provision of technical assistance to NIA field and project staff to improve
implementation effectiveness;
* coordination with DENR and others regarding cooperative management programs;
e provision of advice to relevant councils and agencies regarding watershed land
uses and other activities which are incompatible with NIA objectives; and
* training and technology transfer to NIA field staff on all matters relating to
watershed management.



- 164 -
Annex 10
Page I of 17
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLES
Table 1      Components Project Cost Summary
Table 2     Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
Table 3      Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Table 4      Expenditure Accounts by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Table 5     Water Resources Management - Detailed Costs (P '000)
Table 6      Water Resources Management - Detailed Costs (US$ '000)
Table 7     Watershed Management - Detailed Costs (P '000)
Table 8     Watershed Management - Detailed Costs (US$ '000)
Table 9      Improvement and Repair of Irrigation Systems - Detailed Costs (P '000)
Table 10     Improvement and Repair of Irrigation Systems - Detailed Costs (US$
'000)
Table 11     Institutional Strengthening of NIA and IAs - Detailed Costs ((P '000)
Table 12     Institutional Strengthening of NIA and lAs - Detailed Costs (US$ '000)
Table 13    Environmental Improvement - Detailed Costs ((F '000)
Table 14     Environmental Improvement - Detailed Costs ((US$ '000)



Philippines
Water Resources Development Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(PHP '000)                    (US$ Million)        Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
1. Improved Water Resources Planning
and Management                                       57,415.2     54,124.9    111,540.0    2.2      2.1      4.3       49        6
2. Improved Watershed Management                     283,490.1    64,141.9    347,632.0    10.9      2.5    13.4        18       18
3. Systems Improvement & Repair                      991,948.7    390,418.4  1,382,367.0    38.2    15.0    53.2        28       71
4. Institutional Strengthening of NIA and lAs         53,869.2     18,394.1    72,263.2     2.1      0.7      2.8       25        4
5. Environmental Improvement                          21,790.6     11,580.5    33,371.0     0.8      0.4      1.3       35       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  1,408,513.6    538,659.6  1,947,173.2    54.2    20.7    74.9       28      100
Physical Contingencies                               116,423.7    42,965.4    159,389.2     4.5      1.7      6.1       27       8
Price Contingencies                                  236,315.9    75,344.7    311,660.6     3.1      1.0      4.1       24       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   1,761,253.2    656,969.7  2,418,223.0    61.8    23.4    85.2       27      114
HO
DXX
0-3
o



Philippines
Water Resources Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(PHP '000)
Improved
Water
Resources                            Institutional
Planning    Improved    Systems   Strengthening
and      Watershed  Improvement  of NIA and    Environmental
Management Management  & Repair           lAs       Improvement      Total
l. lnvestment Costs
A. Works                                        -    271,900.5  1,712,365.3            -        13,488.6  1,997,754.3
B. Training/a                             2,971.1      1,103.3           -       16,139.5       1,899.0    22,112.9
C. Consultancies/b                       68,280.7     45,116.8       456.8       10,519.8       1,835.3    126,209.3
D. Goods /c                              25,993.0     61,659.8    14,512.5       26,895.3      11,737.1    140,797.6
E. lncremental operating costs /d        28,683.6     60,417.3           -       32,011.7      10,236.1    131,348.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                        125,928.4    440,197.7  1,727,334.5     85,566.3       39,196.1  2,418,223.0
Taxes                                           -      5,438.0    34,537.6             -          269.8    40,245.3
Foreign Exchange                         59,426.5     77,887.8    484,700.4      21,630.1      13,325.0   656,969.7
0'
\a Includes staff training, overseas study tours and IA training.
\b Includes local and expatriate consultants.
\c Indudes equipment, vehicles, agricultural inputs, and materials.
Id Includes incremental staffing costs and honoraria, office supplies, printing, secretarial support for consultants,
cost of contracting NGOs for organizing communities for watershed management,
equipment O&M costs for sediment monitoring, and travel costs
M (D
(D



Philippines
Water Resources Development Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(PHP '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997        1998        1999         2000        2001        Total
1. Improved Water Resources Planning
and Management                                     44,012.7    47,118.9     18,083.1     8,113.5      8,600.3   125,928.4
2. Improved Watershed Management                    24,625.3     51,228.4    96,495.5    130,023.6    137,825.0   440,197.7
3. Systems Improvement & Repair                    333,472.2   588,974.0    400,304.1    271,370.4    133,213.7  1,727,334.5
4. Institutional Strengthening of NIA and lAs       23,910.2     14,279.1    18,825.1     18,646.9     9,905.0    85,566.3
5. Environmental Improvement                        15,026.4      9,162.6     7,355.7     4,270.1      3,381.3    39,196.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   441,046.8    710,762.9    541,063.5    432,424.4    292,925.4  2,418,223.0
I-
o
0l
H( D
mx
oD X
Li.   j-
0



Philippines
Water Resources Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (PHP '000)        Totals Including Contingencies (USS Million)
1997        1998         1999        2000         2001        Total      1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Works                                322,075.6    617,385.6    464,324.7    363,896.5    230,072.0  1,997,754.3    12.1    22.3    16.2    12.2     7.5    70.3
B. Training /a                            8,571.7      6,299.0     3,546.2      2,216.7     1,479.4     22,112.9     0.3     0.2      0.1     0.1      0.0     0.8
C. ConsultanciesAb                       55,449.5     58,153.8     11,280.4      790.0        535.5    126,209.3     2.1     2.1      0.4      0.0     0.0      4.6
D. Goods/c                               45,970.4     11,957.2    32,343.7     28,708.9    21,817.4    140,797.6     1.7     0.4      1.1      1.0     0.7     5.0
E. Incremental operating costs /d         8,979.7     16,967.3    29,568.5     36,812.3    39,021.0    131,348.8     0.3     0.6      1.0      1.2     1.3     4.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                        441,046.8    710,762.9    541,063.5    432,424.4    292,925.4  2,418,223.0    16.6    25.7    18.9    14.5     9.5    85.2
ba Includes staff training, overseas study tours and IA training.
\b Includes local and expatriate consuHants.
\c Indludes equipment, vehicles, agricultural inputs, and materials.
\d Indudes incremental staffing costs and honoraria, office supplies, printing, secretarial support for consultants,
cost of contracting NGOs for organizing communities for watershed management,
equipment O&M costs for sediment monitoring, and travel costs
0a
fo
(Dx



Philippines
Water Resxurces Developmnt Project
Hater Resources Management
Detailed Costs
(PHP '000(
ParaneterB (in S1
Phy.         F.sa
Base Cost                                            Totals Including Contingencies                     Coot. For.   Tax
1997      1998        1999      2000       2001       Total      1997       1998       1999       2000       2001       Total   Rate  Bxch. Rate
I. Iflestut Costs
B. Formulatioa of National
Water  aeres  Easter Plan (33333)
1. Consultancifs
Local consultants /a                            3,060.0   8,060.0           -          -          -  16,120.0   8,342.1   8,882.9             -          -          -  17,225.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Expatriate conultants /b                       13,520.0  13,520.0           -          -          -  27,040.0  13,993.2  14,900.4             -          -          -  28.893.6   0.0  90.0   0.0
Subtotal Coesultancias                            21,580.0                                               43    .0  22335.3  23,73.3               -          -         -  46,118.6
2. Field trips for
counterpart staff                                  416.0      416.0          -          -          -      a32.0      452.1      481.4          -          -          -      933.5   5.0   0.0   0.0
3. Data collection (including aerial photos)         650.0      650.0           -          -         -   1,300.0       706.4      752.2           -         -          -   1,458.6   5.0  10.0   0.0
4. Si     e
Vehicles                                        1,040.0          -           -          -         -   1,040.0   1,130.2             -          -         -          -   1,130.2   5.0  75.0   0.0
Computers (hardware and software)               2,600.0          -           -          -         -   2,600.0   2,825.6             -          -         -          -   2,925.6   5.0  75.0   0.0
Subtotal Equipment                                 3,640.0           -          -          -          -   3,640.0   3,955.8            -          -          -         -   3,955.8
5. Miscellaneous Ic                                  910.0      910.0           -          -         -   1,820.0       988.9   1,053.1            -          -         -   2,042.0   5.0  20.0   0.0
Subtotal Forulation of Rational 
Water REeources Kster Plan (myIP)                  27,196.0  23.556.0            -          -          -  50,752.0  28,438.5  26,070.0             -          -          -  54,508.4
B. inprovonet of water resources
data collection (WnDCC)
Local consultants /d                               2,340.0           -          -          -          -   2,340.0   2,421.9            -          -          -         -   2,421.9   0.0   0.0   0.0
Expatriate consultants /e                          2,080.0           -                                    2,080.0   2,152.8            -          -          -         -   2,152.8   0.0  90.0   0.0
Equipmnt /f                                        3,744.0   3,744.0            -          -          -   7,488.0   4,068.8   4,332.6             -          -         -   8,401.4   5.0  75.0   0.0
Field trips/ car rentals                           1,040.0           -          -          -          -   1,040.0   1,130.2            -          -          -         -   1,130.2   5.0  75.0   0.0
Miscellaneous /g                                     195.0      195.0           -          -          -     390.0      211.9      225.7           -          -     _          437.6   5.0  20.0   0.0
Subtotal Iqprnemat of ater resources
data collection (NDCC)                              9,399.0   3,939.0            -          -          -  13,338.0   9,985.6   4,558.2             -          -          -  14,543.9
C. Estsbil  mnt of NationLal
water  fomtion Network (NmW)
1. Coaultancies
Local consultants /h                                  -   3,510.0            -         -          -   3,510.0            -   3,868.4           -         -          -   3,868.4   0.0   0.0   0.0
Expatriate consultants i                              -   9,360.0            -         -          -   9,360.0           -  10,315.7            -         -          -  10,315.7   0.0  90.0   0.0
Subtotal Coucaltascies                                    -  12,870.0                                    12,870.0           -  14,184.0           -          -         -  14,184.0 
2. Field trips/car rental                                 -     390.0           -          -          -     390.0           -     451.3           -                    _      451.3   5.0   0.0   0.0
3. Equipment /3                                           -          -   5,772.0           -          -   5,772.0           -          -   7,080.2           -         -   7,080.2   5.0  75.0   0.0 
4. MiscellaneousI /k                                            390.0                      _                390.0                 451.3           -                           451.3   5.0  20.0   0.0                '
ubtotal Eatablishmeat of National
Water Information Network (N315)                           -  13,650.0   5,772.0                       -  19,422.0              15,086.6   7,080.2            -          -  22,166.8
D. Institutioal Stremgtheing of NUN
1. tra ing
Overseas study tour /I                          2,119.0           -          -         -          -   2,119.0   2,193.2             -                     -         -   2,193.2   0.0  90.0   0.0
Local courseslsseinars /n                         364.0      364.0                                       728.0      376.7      401.2           -         -          -      777.9   0.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal Training                                  2,483.0      364.0                      -          -   2,847.0   2,569.9       401.2           -          -              2,971.1
2. Sqeipt - Cotral Office
Computer                                           78.0           -          -          -         -       78.0       84.8           -          -                            84.8   5.0  75.0   0.0
Laser printer                                      39.0           -          -          -         -       39.0       42.4           -          -          -         -       42.4   5.0  75.0   0.0
Pbotocopier                                       104.0           -          -          -         .      104.0      113.0           -          -         -          -      113.0   5.0  75.0   0.0
vehicles In                                     1.90,0---------   1,690.0   1,836.6                                                                                      I       1836.6   5.0  75.0   0.0
Subtotal Equipmet - Central Office                 1,1il. O                                           -   1,911.0   2,076.8                       -                         2 076.8
3. 3qis_est - aengioLal Offices
Computers                                                         -     468.0           -          -     468.0           -          -     574.1           -          -     574.1   5.0  75.0   0.0
Photocopiers                                           -          -     312.0           -          -     312.0           -          -     382.7           _         -      382.7   5.0  75.0   0.0
Vebicles /o                                            -          -   1.950.0           -          -   1,950.0           -  ------- _    2,391.9          - .......      2,391.9   5.0  75.0   0.0
Subtotal Eqoip_st - Regioeal offices                      -          -   2,730.0           -          .     7,730.0         -          -   3,348.7           -          -   3,349.7
4. Research studies/consultancies                     910.0      910.0          -                     -   1,820.0       941.8   1,002.9                      -          -   1,944.8   0.0   0.0   0.0
S. Incrental field staf f
and operating expenses /p                               -          -   6,240.0   6,240.0   6,240.0  18,720.0              -          -   7.654.2   8,113.5   8,600.3  24,368.0   5.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal Intitutional strangthenisg of m               5,304.0   1.274 0   8,970.0   6,240.0   6,240.0  28,028.0    .588 .5   1,404.1  11,002.9   8,113.5   6,600.3  34,709.3
Total                                                      41,899.0  42,419.0  14,742.0   6,240.0   6,240.0 111,540.0  44,012.7  47.118.9  18,083.1   8,113.5   8,600.3 125,928.4
\a Costs include fae0, internal traVl and subsistence for 124 man-months. No physical contingencies are assumed.
\b Costs includ  fees. international travel, internal travel, and subsistence for 52 san-months. No physi-cl contingencies are assumed.
\c Including office space, secretarial support, printing, etc.
\d 18 man-months. See also footnote  a- above.
\e 4 men-months. See also footnote -b' above.
\f Includes current meters and accessories for stream flow, triple tube sampler & pump for groundwater & water quality                                                                                                  (  tD
instruments for pH, conductivity, oxygen. temperature for groundwater, and portable water quality analyzer.                                                                                                           (D
\g Includes supplies, office space, printing etc.                                                                                                                                                                       (D X
\h 27 mn-months. See also footnote 'a' above.
\i 18 man-monthe. See also footnote 'bh  above.                                                                                                                                                                            I
\j Includes computers. laser printers, and modems. 
\k Includes office space, supplies, printing, copying, and secretarial support.
\1 Estieated at $S7150/prson ($3000.21-150.1000) for 21 days for 2 staff from NBDA, 4 staff from other agencies,and 4 staff from NwR8.
Plus $10000 for organizationl arrangements with agencies to be visited.
\m No physical contingencies are assumed.
\n Two sedan cars * $20000 each and one 4rfD * $25000.
\o 4VDs
\p Includes 84staff in three regional offices.



Philippines
Water Resources Development Project
Mater Resources Management
Datailed Costa
(US$ '000)
Parameters (in 8)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                               Totals Including Contingencies              Cont. For.   Tax
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total   1997 _1996    1999    2000    2001    Total  Rate  Sxch. Rate
X. Invse stt Costa
A.  o= ation of National
ntar Resources waster Pla  (59
1. cnsulte  i-
Local consultants /a                            310.0   310.0         -        -       -   620.0   313.6   320.8           -       -        -   634.3   0.0   0.0   0.0
Expatriate consultants /b                       520.0   520.0         -        -       - 1.040.0   526.0   538.1           -        -       - 1,064.1   0.0  90.0   0.0
Subtotal Conaultancles                             830.0   830.0         -        -        - 1,660.0   839.5   858.9         -         - -1       1,98.4
2. Field trips for
counterpart staff                                 16.0    16.0         -        -        -    32.0    17.0    17.4          -        -       -    34.4   5.0   0.0   0.0
3. Data collection (including aerial photos)    25.0    25.0             -        -        -    50.0    26.6    27.2          -        -       -    53.7   5.0  10.0   0.0
4. Eueipmet
Vehilels                                         40.0        -        -        -       -    40.0    42.5          -        -        -       -    42.5   5.0  75.0   0.0
Copucters (hardware and software)               100.O        -        -        -        -   100.0   106.2              -            -       -   106.2   5.0  75.0   0.0
Subtotal  qnuipommt                                140.0        -        -        -        -   140.0   148.7         -        -        -        -   148.7
S. Miscellaneous /c                                 35.0    35.0         -        -        -    70.0    37.2    38.0          -        -        -    75.2   5.0  20.0   0.0
Subtotal Formlation f National
Water Resoures Master Plan (sWEP)                 1,046.0   906.0         -        -        - 1,952.0 1,069.0   941.4          -        -        - 2,010.4
D. Improveaut of water resources
data collection (31DCC)
Local consultants /d                                90.0         -       -        -        -    90.0    91.0         -        -        -        -    91.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Rxpatriate consultants /e                           80.0         -       -        -        -    80.0    80.9         -        -        -        -    80.9   0.0  90.0   0.0
Squipment /t                                       144.0   144.0         -        -        -   288.0   152.9   156.5          -        -        -   309.4   5.0  75.0   0.0
Field trips/ car rentals                            40.0        -        -        -        -    40.0    42.5         -                               42.5   5.0  75.0   0.0
Miscellaneous /g                                     7.5      7.5        -        -        -    15.00     8.0      8.1        -        -        -    16.1   5.0  20.0   0.0
Subtotal Impromeat of water resources
data collection (53DCC)                             361.5   151.5         -        -        -   513.0   375.3   164.6          -        -        -   539.9
C. Rstablib omt of National
Water Infoxratio  Network (5NI1)
1. Conunltacias
Local consultants /h                                -   135.0         -        -       -   135.0         -   139.7         -        -       -   139.7   0.0   0.0   0.0
Expatriate consultants /i                           -   360.0         -        -        -   360.0        -   372.5         -        -       -   372.5   0.0  90.0   0.0
Subtotal Cossultancies                                  -    495.0       -        -        -   495.0        -   512.2         -        -        -   512.2
2. Field trips/car rental                               -    15.0        -        -        -    15.0         -    15.3        -        -        -    16.3   5.0   0.0   0.0
3. Equipmnt /j                                          -       -   222.0         -        -   222.0        -        -   246.8         -        -   246.8   5.0  75.0   0.0
4. mincellaneous /k                                     -    15.0        -                      15.0        -    16.3         -        -      -      16.3   5.0  20.0   0.0
Subtotal Esteblish_t of National
Water Infoxr_tion Network (M6X)                          -   525.0   222.0         -        -   747.0         -   544.8   246.8         -        -   791.6                                                            0
D. Institutional strengthening of tUR
1. Trainig
Overseas study tour /1                           81.5        -        -        -       -    81.5    82.4          -        -        -       -    82.4   0.0  90.0   0.0
Local courses/eminars /m                         14.0    14.0         -        -       -    28.0    14.2    14.5           -        -             28.6   0.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal Traiuing                                   95.5    14.0         -        -        -   109.5    96.6    14.5          -        -            111.1
2. uquipmt . Central Office
Computer                                          3.0        -        -        -        -     3.0      3.2        -        -        -       -      3.2   5.0  75.0   0.0
Laser printer                                     1.S        -        -        -        -     1.5      1.6        -        -        -       -      1.6   0.0  75.0   0.0
Photocopier                                       4.0        -        -        -        -     4.0      4.2                 -        -        -     4.2   5.0  75.0   0.0
Vehicles /n                                      65          -                               65.0    69.0 7  1             _                      69.0   5.0  75.0   0.0
Subtotal Nqnipment - Central Office                 73.5         -                -        -    73.5    78.1          -       -        -        -    78.1
3. ZEipment - Regional Offices
Computars                                            -       -    18.0         -        -    18.0         -       -    20.0         -        -    20.0   5.0  75.0   0.0
Photocopiers                                         -       -    12.0                  _    12.0        -        -    13.3                       13.3   5.0  75.0   0.0
Vehicles /o                                          -       -    75.0         -        -    75.0         -       -    83.4         -        -    83.4   5.0  75.0   0.0
Subtotal  Equipment - Regional Offices                  -        -   105.0        -        -   105.0       -          -   116.7        -        -   116.7
4. Research studies/consultancies                    35.0    35.0        -        -        -    70.0    35.4    36.2          -        -        -    71.6   0.0   0.0   0.0
S. Incremental field staff
and operating expenses /p                             -       -   240.0   240.0   240.0   720.0            -       -   266.8   272.9   279.2   918.8   5.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal Institutional strengthening of 3113           204.0    49.0   345.0   240.0   240.0 1,078.0   210.1    50.7   383.5   272.9   279.2 1,196.3
Total                                                     1,611.5 1,631.5   567.0   240.0   240.0 4,290.0 1,654.4 1,701.5   630.2   272.9   279.2 4,538.2
\a Costs include fees, internal travel and subsistence for 124 nan-months. No physical contingencies are assumed.
\b Costs include fees, international travel, internal travel, and subsistence for 52 man-months. No physical contingencies are assumed.
\c Including office space, secretarial support, printing, etc.
\d 18 men-months. See also footnote 'a' above.                                                                                                                                                                              >
\e 4 man-months. See also footnote hb  above.
\f Includes current meters and accessories for stream flow, triple tube sampler & pump for groundwater & water quality                                                                                                  -'0
intruments for p58. conductivity, oxygen, temperature for groundwater, and portable water quality analyzer.                                                                                                            DX
\g Includes supplies, office space, printing etc.
\h 27 man-months. See also footnote 'a' above.                                                                                                                                                                          a" H
\i 18 nan-onths. See also footnote 'bl above.                                                                                                                                                                               0
\j Includes comuters, laser printers, and modems.
\k Includes ottice space, supplies, printing, copying, and secretarial support.
\1 Estimated at $7150/person  )$3000+21-150.1000) for 21 days for 2 staff from NeDA, 4 staff from other agencies,and 4 staff from NWR9.
Plus $10000 for organizational arrangements with agencies to be visited.
\m No physical contingencies are assumed.
\n Two sedan cars 5 $20000 each and one 4WD a $25000.
\o 4WD3
\p Includes 84staff in three regional offices.



Philippine
Water RaSOurces Develont Project
watershed Menagmnent
Detailed Coste
(PP '000)
ftaranft  in
Base Cost                                        Totals Includinog Cotinoencies                 Cont. For.  Tax
1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      Total      1997      1998                2000      2         Total  Rate Bxch. Rate
I. Zxe_et Ctost
a. stufl
1. Whases 1 end ZI
Local consultants /a                    4,550.0          -         -         -         -  4,550.0   4,709.3           -         -         -         -   4,709.3   0.0   0.0   0.0
~atriate consultants /h                10,920.0          -         -         -         - 10,920.0  11,302.2           -         -         -         - 11,302.2   0.0  90.0   0.0
Feld trips for
coumterpart staff                       182.0          -         -         -         -     182.0    197.8           -         -         -         -     197.8  5.0   0.0   0.0
Data collection
(including aerial photoa)               130.0         -         -          -         -     130.0    134.6          -         -          -         -     134.6   0.0   0.0   0.0
Vehiclee/vhicle rental                    780.0          -         -         -         -     760.0    847.7           -         -         _         _    847.7  5.0  75.0   0.0
Copter equi, t
(hardware and software)                 390.0         -         -          -         -     390.0    423.8          -         -          -         -    423.8  5.0  75.0   0.0
Miscellanaeou
(inluding office apace,
secretarial support, supplies etc.)     260.0         -          -         -         -     260.0     282.6          -         -         -         -     282.6   5.0  20.0   0.0
stetal Poese  I _a  XI                    17,212.0          -         -         -         -  17,212.0  17,897.8          -         -         -         -  17,897.8
2. Phsae XII
Local    sultants /c                    2,600.0  7,800.0   2,600.0           -         -  13,000.0   2,691.0   8,596.4   3,037.4          -         - 14,324.8   0.0   0.0   0.0
Zatriate ctnsltants /d                  2,080.0   5,200.0   5,200.0          -         -  12,480.0   2,152.8   5,730.9   6,074.8          -         - 13,958.5   0.0  90.0   0.0
Field tripe for conterpart staff          130.0    520.0    390.0            -         -   1,040.0     141.3      601.7    478.4          -         -   1,221.4   5.0   0.0   0.0
Data collection
(ilding aerial photos)                  208.0     208.0    208.0           -         -     624.0    215.3    229.2    243.0             -         -     67.5   0.0   0.0   0.0
fthicloe/vehicle rental                   130.0    650.0    520.0            -         -   1,300.0    141.3    752.2        637.9         -         -   1,531.3   5.0  75.0   0.0
(hazflre and Software)                  130.0    390.0          -          -         -     520.0     141.3    451.3          -          -         -     592.6   5.0  75.0   0.0
Miscellaneous
(including office space,
secretarial  uiport, supplies etc.)     130.0    130.0    130.0            -         -     390.0    141.3    150.4    159.S             -         -     451.2  5.0  20.0   0.0
_ltaoOl fless lxX                          5 408 0 14 6980   9 048 0            -         - 29,354.0   5 63.  16.512.2  10.630.9             -         - 32 767 3
_notaal s_n 2 ri   14:698:0 -C04ai0                                                -         - 46,566.0  23,522.0  16,512.2  10,630.9           -         - -muturi
5. Oversas study tour
for      and     sak Saff /a                1,066.0          -         -                       1,066.0   1,103.3          -         -                       1,103.3   0.0  90.0   0.0
C. Zaweents La Priesity Batsede
Civil and agricultural works                      - 21,000.0  49,000.0  70,000.0  70,000.0 210,000.0           -  24,301.3  60,105.2  91,016.5  96,477.5 271,900.5   5.0  10.0   2.0
Agricultural inputs                               -   3,000.0   7,000.0  10,000.0  10,000.0  30,000.0          -   3,471.6   8,596.5  13,002.4  13,782.5  38,842.9   5.0  25.0   0.0
quipt                                             -  1,500.0   3,500.0   5,000.0   5,000.0  15,000.0           -   1,735.8   4,293.2   6,501.2   6,891.2  19,421.5   5.0  75.0   0.0       ..
Increental operting costs                        -  4 500        0       15 000 0 O15000 OO 45 000 0          -   5,207.4  12,879.7  19.503.5  20,673.7  58,264.4   5.0   0.0   0.0 _
_*otal Ire       ts ia Priority _atsrsd              - 3.0o   70,000.0 100.          10000 loo.o3    o0o          - 34.716.2  65,864.6 130.023.6 137,625.0 388,429.3
Total                                              23,686.0  44,898.0  79,048.0 100,000.0 100,000.0 347,632.0  24,625.3  51,228.4  96,495.5 130,023.6 137,625.0 440,197.7
%a 35 _en-aths. Costs include fees, internal travel, and subhistence. No physical contingencies aer  assu_d..
\b 21 son-onths. Coats inClude fees, international travel, internal travel, and subeistence. No physical coantingencies are assumad.
\c 100 mn-enntha over three years. Se also footnote  a  shove
\d 24 i-ebnth  over thre years. Se  footnote  b  sbove.
\e 6 staff fin M     nd 2 Staff froe NIA for 3 weeks each eP 130,000/person. No phyical contingencies are assud.
(D
(D X
0



Philippines
Water Resourcem Delopment Project
Watrsh d  anagement
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Paramters (in 5)
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                      Totals IncludinQ Continoencies                 Cont. For.   Tax
1997     1998      1999      2000      2001    Total       1997       998     1999      2000      2001    Total   Rate  Bxch. Rate
X. Investt Costs
A. stujy
1. Phaes I and XI
Local consultants /s                         175.0         -         -         -        -    175.0    177.0           -         -         _              177.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Expatriate consultants /b                   420.0          -         -         -        -    420.0    424.8           -         -         -         -    424.8   0.0  90.0   0.0
Field trips for
counterpart staff                            7.0         -         -        -         _       7.0       7.4         -         -                  -       7.4   5.0   0.0   0.0
Data collection
(including aerial photos)                   5.0         -         -         -         -      s.0       S.1          -        -         -         -       5.1   0.0   0.0   0.0
Vehicles/vehicle rental                       30.0         -         -         -        -      30.0      31.9         -         -         -         -     31.9   5.0  75.0   0.0
Cotpuer equipmnt
(hardware and software)                    15.0         -         -         -         -     15.0      1S.9          -        -         -         -      15.9   5.0  75.0   0.0
Miscellaneous
(including office space,
sece tarial support, supplies etc.)        10.0          -                                   10.0      10.6         -         -         -        -      10.6   5.0  20.0   0.0
ubtoOal Pes  I sd I                             662.0         -         -         -         -    662.0    672.7          -         -         -         -    672.7
2. Phs  Ifl
Local consultants /c                         100.0    300.0    100.0           -        -    500.0    101.2    310.4    105.9             -         -    517.4   0.0   0.0   0.0
Expatriate consultants /d                     80.0    200.0    200.0           -        -    480.0       80.9    207.0    211.7           -         -    499.6   0.0  90.0   0.0
Field trips for counterpart staff              5.0      20.0     15.0          -        -      40.0       5.3      21.7      16.7         -         -     43.7   5.0   0.0   0.0
Data collection
(including aerial photos)                   8.0       8.0       8.0         -         -     24.0        8.1      8.3       8.5         -         -     24.8   0.0   0.0   0.0
Vehicles/vehicle rental                        5.0      25.0     20.0          -        -      50.0       5.3      27.2      22.2         -         -     54.7   5.0  75.0   0.0
Computer equi_ant
(hardware and software)                     s.0      15.0         -         -         -     20.0       5.3      16.3         -         -         -      21.6   5.0  75.0   0.0
Miscellaneous
(including office space.
secretarial support, supplies etc.)         5.0       5.0       5.0         -         -      15.0       5.3       5.4      5.6         -         -      16.3   5.0  20.0   0.0
btotal Phe 1                                    209.0    573.0    348.0           -         -  1.129.0    211.4    596.3    370.5            -         -  1.178.2
Subtotal Studt                                     870.0    573.0    348.0           -         -  1,791.0    884.2    596.3    370.5            -         -  l.850.9
B. Overseam tudy tour
for DMR and NIa staff /e                          41.0         -         -         -         -     41.0      41.5         -         -         -         -     41.5   0.0  90.0   0.0
C. Xavestants in Priority Watersheds
Civil and agricultural works                        -    807.7  1,884.6  2,692.3  2,692.3  8,076.9              -    877.6  2,094.7  3,061.3  3,131.7  9,165.3   5.0  10.0   2.0
Agricultural inputs                                  -    115.4    269.2    384.6    384.6  1,153.8             -    125.4    299.2    437.3    447.4  1,309.3   5.0  25.0   0.0                                    -
quipnt-                                                    57.7    134.6    192.3    192.3    576.9                   62.7    149.6    218.7    223.7    654.7   s.0  75.0   0.0                    ..
Incremental operating cots                          -    173.1    403.8    576.9    576.9  1,730.8              -    188.0    448.9    656.0    671.1  1,964.0   5.0   o.0   0.0
Subtotal mnve_nsats Lu Priority Watersheds              -  1,153.8  2,692.3  3,846.2  3,846.2 1 3                  -  1,253.7  2.992.5  4373.3  4.473.9 13.093.3
Total                                                    911.0  1,726.8  3,040.3  3,846.2  3,846.2 13,370.5    925.6  1,849.9  3,363.0  4,373.3  4,473.9 14,985.7                                                            1
\a 35 ean-montha. Costs include fees, internal travwl, end Subsistence. No physical contingencies are assumed..
\b 21 sn-months. Costo include fees, international travel, intermal travel, and subsistence. No physical contingencies are assumed.
\c 100 san-months over three years. See also footnote  a  above.
\d 24  an-months over three years. See footnote 'b  above.
\a 6 staff from DER and 2 staff frin  NIA for 3 weeks each oP 130,000/person. No physical contingencies are assumed.
(D
00



Philippines
Water Resources Development Project
Improvement & Repair of Irrigation Systems
Detailed Costs
(PHP '000)
Parameters (in I)
Base Cost                                            Totals Including Contingencies                     Cont. For.   Tax
1997      1998        1999       2000       2001      Total      1997       1998       1999       2000        2001      Total   Rate  RxCh. Rate
I. Investmost Costs
A. Systems Impro _at a Repair
1. Improvmet of 14 NIBs /a
Magapit PIS (R2) lb                   5,000.0  65,215.0  54,494.0  53,327.0  51,324.0 229,360.0   5,692.5  79,060.8  70,027.4  72,639.5  74,105.7 301,525.9  10.0  25.0   2.0
san-Pablo-Cabagan (U2)               18,880.0  13,560.0   5,154.0            -           -  37,594.0  21,494.9  16,438.9   6,623.1             -          -  44,556.9  10.0  25.0   2.0
Tumauni IS (R2)                      12,803.0  10,154.0   6,117.0             -          -  29,074.0  14,576.2  12,309.8   7,860.6              -         -  34,746.7  10.0  25.0   2.0
tRIIS District II (R2)               49,907.0  18,885.0  21,397.0  32,417.0  17,117.0 139,723.0  56,819.1  22,894.5  27,496.2  44,156.9  24,714.9 176,081.5  10.0  25.0   2.0
Angat-Haasie RIS  (R3) /c               640.0  39,032.0  60,213.0  51,153.0  12,688.0 163,726.0           728.6  47,318.9  77,376.6  69,678.1  18,320.0 213,422.2  10.0  25.0   2.0
C.iling  RIS (23)                            -   5,350.0   7,397.0   5,350.0             -  18,097.0          -   6,485.9   9,505.5   7,267.5             -  23,278.9  10.0  25.0   2.0
BalanaC RIS (R4)                      7,421.0   9,709.0   6,969.0             -             24,099.0   8,448.8  11,770.3   8,955.5              -             29,174.6  10.0  25.0   2.0
Baco-Ducayao RIB CR4)                 8,525.0  19,430.0  10,809.0             -          -  38,764.0   9,705.7  23,555.2  13,890.1             -          -  47,151.0  10.0  25.0   2.0
Pagbahan RIS CR4)                           -  10,946.0  14,587.0   9,167.0                 34,700.0          -  13,269.9  18,745.0  12,486.8             -  44,501.8  10.0  25.0   2.0
Jalaur  RIS - Proper (R6)                    -   8,724.0   9,344.0   5,050.0             -  23,118.0          -  10,576.2  12,007.5   6,878.9             -  29,462.6  10.0  25.0   2.0
Sibalo.-Tigbauan (R6) /d              1,002.0   4,832.0  14,009.0   8,164.0                 28,007.0   1,140.8   5,857.9  18,002.2  11,120.6              -  36,121.5  10.0  25.0   2.0
Dipolo RIS CR9) /a                    3,746.0  10,905.0   8,149.0   7,953.0              -  30,753.0   4,264.8  13,220.2  10,471.9  10,833.2              -  38,790.1  10.0  25.0   2.0
MHlang RIS CR12) /r                   8,527.0  11,618.0   8,402.0  12,105.0   3,828.0  44,480.0   9,708.0  14,084.6  10,797.0  16,488.8   5,627.2  56,605.6  10.0  25.0   2.0
Aanan-Wawa RIS (R13)                 36,165.0  43,397.0  43,397.0  14,465.0   7,233.0 144,657.0  41,173.9  52,610.6  55,767.3  19,703.5  10,443.6 179,698.8  10.0  25.0   2.0
Subtotal Improvnt of 14 NISa           152,616.0 271,757.0 270,438.0 199,151.0  92,190.0 986,152.0 173,753.3 329,453.7 347,526.0 271,273.8 133,111.4 1,255,128
2. Conaultancy /g                           78.0        78.0       78.0       78.0       78.0     390.0       80.7       86.0       91.1       96.6      102.4      456.8   0.0   0.0   0.0
3. Silt Nxcllders /h
ASburayan RIS (Rl)                           -   5,000.0           -          -          -   5,000.0           -   6,061.6          -           -         -   6,061.6  10.0  35.0   2.0
Daet-Talisay-Matogdon (RS)                   -  11,000.0           -          -             11,000.0          -  13,335.4           -          _          -  13,335.4  10.0  35.0   2.0
Lupon RIS (2ll)                                 11,000.0           -         -              11,000.0          -  13,335.4                      _    -         13,335.4  10.0  35.0   2.0
Datutu RIS (R1l)                                 5,000.0           -          -          -   5,000.0          -   6,061.6                      -          -   6,061.6  10.0  35.0   2.0
NAlasils RIS CR12)                  5.471.0             -          -          - -            5,471.0   6,228.7  ......              -                          6,228.7  10.0  35.0   2.0
Sabtotal Silt aeliers                    5,471.0  32,000.0           -          -          -  37,471.0   6,228.7  38,793.9                        -          -  45,022.7
4. Repair of major Structures
Lwer Chico RIS CR2) /i               18,000.0  18,000.0  14,000.0             -          -  50,000.0  20,493.0  21,821.6  17,990.7             -          -  60,305.3  10.0  35.0   2.0
Apayao-Abulog RIB CR2)                3,000.0           -          -          -          -   3,000.0   3,415.5           -                                _   3,415.5  10.0  35.0   2.0
sta.Cruz-Mabacan RIB (R4)            20,000.0  11,000.0                                  -  31,000.0  22,770.0  13,335.4            -          -          -  36,105.4  10.0  35.0   2.0
Sibalo-San Jose RIS (R6)                     -   6,000.0           _                         6,000.0          -   7,273.9                                 -   7,273.9  10.0  35.0   2.0
Aklan-Panskuyan RIS CR6)             11,000.0           -                     -          -  11,000.0  12,523.5           -                                -  12,523.5  10.0  35.0   2.0
Gibong RIS (R10)                             -   5,000.0           -                     -   5,000.0          -   6,061.6           -          -          -   6,061.6  10.0  35.0   2.0
Cabadharan-Taguibo RIS (R10)                 -          -   9,000.            -              9,000.0          -          -  11,565.4           -          -  11,565.4  10.0  35.0   2.0
Tago RIB (R11)                       40,000.0  22,000.0  18,000.0             -          -  80,000.0  45,540.0  26,670.8  23,130.9             -          -  95,341.7  10.0  35.0   2.0
Subtotal Repair of Major Structurea  92,000.0  62,000.0  41,000.0                -          - 195,000.0 104,742.0  75,163.2  52,687.0              -          - 232,592.2
S. Masivay dam strengthening            30,000.0 120,000.0            -          _          - 150,000.0  34,155.0 145,477.2             -          -          - 179,632.2  10.0  35.0   2.0
6. Iqui_pnt (hevy)
Motor grader ( 1 unit)
(115 H.P to 125 H.P)               1,730.0           -                _    -              1,730.0   1,880.1            -                                    1,880.1   5.0  75.0   2.0
Anphibious crane (2 units)
(1S-20 tons)                      11,624.0           -          -          -          -  11,624.0  12,632.4            -          -          -          -  12,632.4   5.0  75.0   2.0
Subtotal Iquigment Cheesy)              13.354. O          -          -          - -           13,354.0  14,512.5            -          -          -          -  14,512.5
Total                                           293,519.0 485,835.0 311,516.0 199,229.0  92,268.0 1,382,367 333,472.2 588,974.0 400,304.1 271,370.4 133,213.7 1,727,335
\a Base cost includes 7% for engineering, supervision, and administration for systems improvement and repair of major structures, and 12% for silt excluders.
\b For Becond-year systems(other than Dipolo and MNlang),costs in the first year are estimated resettlement costs only.
System improvement costs begin only in the second year.
\c See footnote b,' above.
\d See footnote lb' above.
\e First year costs are for design and construction of silt excluders only.
\f First-year costs are for resattiement costs and design and construction of silt excluders.
\g Local consultancy for 10 man-months for monitoring resettlement.
\h For NISs not included in 14 for systems improvement.
\i Includes repair to intake structure and cystem improvement.
F-3 
CDX
(D >4
O



Philippines
Water Resources Development Project
Isprovement & Repair of Irrigation Systems
Detailed Costs
(US$ ' 000)
Parameters (in 8)1
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                        Totals Including Contingencies                   Cont. For.   Tax
_997      1998      1999       2000      2001    Total       1997       1998      1999      2000      2001    Ttal   Rate  Exch. Rate
I. In,etant Costs
A. Systems lmprov**ect & Repair
1. Zprove_mt of 14 RISs /a
lagapit PIS (R2) lb                      192.3  2,508.3  2,095.9  2,052.0  2,974.0  8,821.5    214.0  2,855.0  2,440.5  2,443.2  2,405.5 10,358.2  10.0  25.0   2.0
San-Pablo-Cabagan (R2)                   726.2    521.5    198.2            -         -  1,445.9    808.0    593.6    230.8               -         -  1,632.4  10.0  25.0   2.0
Tuaauni IS (R2)                          492.4    390.5    235.3            -          -  1,118.2    547.9    444.5    274.0              -         -  1,266.4  10.0  20.0   2.0
MRIlS District II (R2)                1,919.5    726.3    823.0  1,246.8    658.3  5,374.0  2,135.7    826.8    958.3  1,485.2    802.3  6,208.2  10.0  25.0   2.0
Angat-Macsis RIS  (R3) /c                 24.6  1,501.2  2,315.9  1,967.4    488.0  6,297.2             27.4  1,708.8  2,696.7  2,343.6    594.7  7,371.1  10.0  25.0   2.0
Camiling  RIS (R3)                           -    205.8    284.5    205.8              -    696.0          -    234.2    331.3    245.1             -    810.6  10.0  25.0   2.0
Balanac RIS CR4)                         285.4    373.4    268.0            -               926.9    317.6    425.0    312.1              -         -  1,054.7  10.0  25.0   2.0
Daco-Bucayao RIS CR4)                    327.9    747.3    415.7            -         -  1,490.9    364.8    890.6    484.1               -         -  1,699.5  10.0  25.0   2.0
Paghahan RIS (R4)                            -    421.0    561.0    352.6             -  1,334.6           -    479.2    653.3    420.0             -  1,552.5  10.0  25.0   2.0
Jalaur  RIS - Proper (R6)                    -    335.5    359,4    194.2             -    889.2           -    381.9    418.5    231.4             -  1,031.8  10.0  25.0   2.0
Sibalom-Tigbauan CR6) /d                  38.5    180.8    538.8    314.0             -  1,077.2       42.9    211.5    627.4    374.0              -  1,255.9  10.0  25.0   2.0
Dipolo RIS (R9) /e                       144.1    419.4    313.4    305.9              -  1,182.8    160.3    477.4    365.0    364.4               -  1,367.0  10.0  25.0   2.0
M'lang RIS (R12) /f                      328.0    446.8    323.2    465.6    147.2  1,710.8    364.9    508.6    376.3    554.6                179.4  1,983.8  10.0  25.0   2.0
Andnan-alwaa RIB (R13)                 1,391.0  1,669.1  1,669.1    556.3    278.2  5,563.7  1,547.7  1,899.9  1,943.6    662.7    339.0  6,392.8  10.0  25.0   2.0
Subtotal  mrove t of 14 NISs              5,869.8 10,452.2 10,401.5  7,659.7  3,545.8 37,928.9  6,531.1 11,897.1 12,111.7  9,124.2  4,320.9 43,984.9
2. Conaultancy /g                             3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0       15.0       3.0       3.1       3.2        3.2       3.3      15.9    0.0   0.0   0.0
3. Silt Dacludns /b
Abrayayn RIS (Rl)                            -    192.3           -         -          -    192.3          -    218.9           -         -         -    218.9  10.0  35.0   2.0
Dset-Talisay-Matogdon  (RS)                  -    423.1           -         -         -    423.1           -    481.6           -         -         -    481.6  10.0  35.0   2.0
LUpon RIB CR11)                              -    423.1           -         -         -    423.1           -    481.6          -          -         -    481.6  10.0  35.0   2.0
Batutu RIS CR11)                             -    192.3           -         -         -    192.3           -    218.9          -          -         -    218.9  10.0  35.0   2.0
Malasila RIS CR12)                       210.4          -         -         -          -    210.4    234.1           -          -         -         -    234.1  10.0  35.0   2.0
Subtotal Silt Excluders                     210.4  1,230.8           -          -         _  1,441.2    234.1  1,400.9             -         -         -  1,635.0
4. Repair of major Structures
ltsr Chico RIS CR2) /i                   692.3    692.3    538.5            -         -  1,923.1    770.3    788.0    627.0               -         -  2,185.3  10.0  35.0   2.0
Apayao-Abulog RIB (R2)                   115.4          -         -         -          -    115.4    128.4           -          -         -         -    128.4  10.0  35.0   2.0
Sta.Cruz-Mabacan RIS CR4)               769.2    423.1            -         -         -  1,192.3    855.9    481.6             -          -         -  1,337.4  10.0  35.0   2.0
Sibalou-San Jose RIS (R6)                    -    230.8           -         -         -    230.8           -    262.7          -          -         -    262.7  10.0  35.0   2.0
Aklan-Panakuyan RIS (R6)                 423.1          -         -         -          -    423.1    470.7           -          -         -         -    470.7  10.0  35.0   2.0
Gibong RIB (R10)                             -    192.3           -         -          -    192.3          -    218.9           -         -         -    218.9  10.0  35.0   2.0
Cabadbaran-Taguibo RIS (R10)                 -         -    346.2           -         -    346.2           -         -    403.1           -         -    403.1  10.0  35.0   2.0
Tago RIB (CR1)                        1.538,5    S46.2    692.3             -         -  3,076.9  1,711.8        963.1    806.1           -         -  3,481.0  10.0  35.0   2.0
Sabtotal Seir of Major Structures  3,538.5  2,584.6  1,576.9                   -          -  7,500.0  3,937.1  2,714.3  1,836.2              -         -  8,487.5
5. Masivay dam Strengthening              1,153.8  4,615.4           -         -          -  5,769.2  1,283.8  5,253.4             -         -         -  6,537.2  10.0  35.0   2.0
6. Egulmemt (heavy)
Motor grader ( 1 unit)
(115 H.P to 125 H.P)                   66.5          -         -         -          -     66.5       70.7         -          -         -         -      70.7   5.0  75.0   2.0
amphibious crane C2 units)
115-20 tons)                          447.1          -         -                    _    447.1      474.8          -         -         _               474.8   5.0  75.0   2.0
subtotal Uqai      t (heavy)                513.6          -                                   513.6    545.5           -          -         -         -    545.5
Total                                             11,289.2 18,686.0 1l,981.4  7,662.7  3,548.8 53,168.0 12,534.6 21,268.8 13,951.1  9,127.4  4,324.2 61,206.2
\a Bass cost includes 7% for engineering, supervision, and adfinistration for systems Iprovement and repair of major structures, and 12t for silt excluders.
\b For second-year systu (other than Dipolo and M'lang),costs in the first year are estimated resettlement costs only.
SysteS improvnt costs begin only in the second year.
\c See footnote 'b' above.
\d See footnote 'b' ashwe.
\e First year costs are for design and construction of silt excluders only.
\f First-year costs are for resettlent costs end design end construction of silt excluders.
\g Local conSultancy for 10 man-nths for monitoring resettlement.
\b For IISa not included in 14 for systes iprovinnt.
\i Includes repair to intake structure and system improvement.
o o



HtresuCes Development Project
Institutional Strengthening ot MIR and IRA
Detailed Coats
(PIP -000)
Y.ar5   in
lace coat                                     Totals Including Contingencie                 Cot. For.   Tax
197      19         09        00      20 997   19997               1998      1999      2000      200     Total   late  Exch. late
S. Isteaheest Costs
I. Aoeniia  and 71inewa
Scoefagent Seprvemat /0
Reconciliation of aCct.. Of
Central Office                           1,715.0  1,715.0          -                   -3,430.0  1,819.4  1,937.4             -         -           3,754.8   2.5   0.0   0.0
Preparation of Accoun,ting Manual             759.0         -         -        - -            719.0    105.2          -         -                         05.2   2.5   0.0   0.0
famime~;rk.ohabp no the
accoumting nea                                       760.0-                            -    760.0         -    961.1          -                        621.1   2.5   0.0   0.8
Semiearjlborksabp on Internal auditing   .,04L0    104.0    104.0    104.0    104.0    520.0    110.3    117.5   _124.5    132.0    139.9    624.3   2.5   0.0   0.0
.uttal Atccomtig sad Finanacial
Manaagement Improvement                      2,878.0  2,5999.0    104.0    104.0    104.0  9,489.0  2,734.9  2,9334.0    124.5    132.0    129.9  6,047.4
2. Nsaagemost lfoemation Systems /b                                                                                                                    -2:7l: 10   10    :
a. Macdean Acquisition                     8400             -580.    ,5.                   201,498.0  9128.7          -  7, 124'.3N813.5           -  4,195    .0750           .
b. Software acquisition1,4.                            210.0    208.0               -        -3,7. 207.           253.4    29.1           -        -2558 507.                  .
c. Database progra-ming                           -    100.0    400.0    300.0    200.0  1,0000             -    110.2    44.        171.9    242.5  1,2i1.0   0.0    .        .
6,  sstlltiom/fas.il itiea.2
Inreena  opracaional Cost            1,200.0  1,200.0  1,8.0O  1900 ,5.040.0 ,2.1  1318.4  180.0  1,99.4  3047.4  8,590.4   5.0 0.                                     00
e. Traininn
Local training /c                                 1,334.0    585.0    344.0    231.0  2,499.0            -  1,044.0    721.3    447.3    318.4  3,032.9   5.0   0.         00
IntocuLio  technology conaultancies    780.0    780.0    390.0    240.0    110.0  2,401T.0    807.3    ess.64_ 459.4   -323.0    170.4 ..46jfI                0.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal Taisie                               70.   2,116.0    976.        40.        410489..0 83 01.3  2,405.7  1749               792    48.    .jj
subtotal MaaeetInformtion Bystem              12,.227.0  3490804.0  6,654.0  3,061.0 3,7.1,2.34,357.9  mtjr  11,257.4  3,818. 942,30t3
3, NMU Staff tralalag-                                                                                                                       -                 9
Loa   raining for 0454 "qpient            7119   1.0              -         -            1,432.0    772.7    822.8                                 1,59.5.   5.0   0.0   0.0
Ref rbeeh courses for
design engineers /6                       1,950.0         -                                ,950.0  2,040.7          -         -                  -2,068.7   2.9   0.0   0.0
Overseas stuY tour of irrigation
mngttucuover to water ueers /s  1,274.0             -        -         -         -1,274.0  1,351. 6    ---              -                     -1.351.4   2.5  90.0   0.0
Subtotal nu1 staff training                    1  35,3.0    711.0                              4 444.0  4,192.9    622.8                                  I,15.:7
lebtotal nu A                                    1,4-0.5  4,949,5     8990    6,75-8.0  2,-1465.4S0-0      20,-17 5.3  7,-954.7 1  0,988.1 11,349.4  2,998.6  3,3064
D. 1A Developamat A Management
Tnxzoer Prsgrn
1. Traininlg
a,. Traisia
,A training
Area wIthot IA /f                                                                                                                                            .     .      .
AsaJ withou  cootracte /9                                                                                                                                           O                       .  .0   0.04
3A5 with Contracts
maintenne /bh                                          -    403.4    443.1          -    9146.7        -         -    543.2    907.7          -1,130.9   3.5   9.0   5.0                               I
Opecation/18F /I-    718,2  1,304.1    974.5    453.6  3  9.                                                    1.   1,541.4       3.        1.    ,1.         .      .     .
Subtntal IA Train,ing                             -    718.2  1,797.7  1,039.9    453.46 R e                 -    8132147    ,1.                1.    ,4.
b, Other, training
Flsgtraining                               100.0    200.0    200.0    250.0    250.0  1,000.20   104.1    225.9    239.5    317.3   1346.4  1,225.3   2.5   0.0   0.0
IDOs  initial training                         .    220.1'   220,                          440.2         -    248.6    263.46              -          512.2   3.5   0.0   0.0
lOGs seiar                                    4        0.D.               0.0         -      3.0       0.5       0.6 --O0.4         0.4         - ,,      3~  2.5   0.0   0.0
SubtoalOb        ..ranig... :~:P                                 420.      250.5    250.0  1422         104.4    475.1    93.7    318.0    334.4 _J._29..,.7
n tnta,l Otrann                                005 U3j   ,7.   7 W                   7034S,411.2    15_1  6 _1,304.5  2,08.4  1,37.4    984,8.
2. CossIt&ltaany 
Cytrn    n   vauto   b20.                           3.                                    390.0    349.1    143.3          -         -         -    4 12. 4 0.0   0.0   0.0
Federatio  developmnt /1                       20....3.  920.0    520.0 -----  ----- -1,540.0    936.1    573.1    407.9                                 7 tA lS   0.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal ~seltaacy                             490.0    520.0          -         -  1,950.0     507.3    716.4    607.5                        ,3.
3. Incemenetal Woerat ig onets
Asatar is /a                             1,200.5  2,400.0  2,400.0  3,000.0  3,000.0 12,000.0  1,373.1  2,711.2  2,673.8  3,807.8  4,034.3 14,7023.   2.5   0.0   0.0
Travel /0                                  334.0    334.0    334.0    334.0    336.0  1,480.0    354.5    379.6    402.3    424.5    452.1  2,014.9   2.5   0.0   0.
onrra/0                            1 J43j.j  1,123.2  1,123.2  1,133.2  1,123.2  5,414.0  1.191.6 1.26085  1 345 015.425.7  1.511.2  6 742 2   2.5 0.                00
Subtotal   500 rsqirent1,09.   1!P                               1 .9 ,45 .2    2  1,459.2  7,294 0  :1.540    1.448.4 -i747.1  .83    1.943.3  IY
s"t"alIsrema  opera.ting costs           ,5.2t 7   38459.             ,5.2     4,459.2 19.296.0  28114.359.6  4.621.1  54005,999.6 2,4.
Subtotal IA Osylv ges  4 Uang-t
Twaner  sora                                    3.539.7  9 6480   4.557.5  5.7492  5,146244 6,57    3,735.01 6.362.4  7,637.0  7_297 3  4 _944 2 32,177..9
Total                                                 22279.  T tI   15.939 5 149727,327 8 72,243.2 23,910. 234,279.1 16,629.1 titi14C9   9,905 0 65.64 
'a lascs  nldes 2.95 cor supervision and administration.
\b lasot. includes 129 engineering, suerisio n, and administrative costs.
Uc Includes training of IT personnel, and user's training.
tdaclcuss  sise   t97,0/esnfof5proa                                                                                                                                                                            H  (D
\e S sa ff in  MIA sod 2 staff fron USDA for 3 weeks at an estimated cost of 9162,000/person.                                                                                                                     ( 
\f 416 ]As. Covered by 10SF 11 by 3998.                                                                                                                                                                            D
\tg 371 IAs.To be covered by 0009 I1.HH
\h  satasme  46 Us in 1999 and 49 bAa in 2000 for 1809 systems only (see Amues 8) .HO0
Training cost estimated at hslf of IA without contract amont.
\U essuems 74 Us& In 1998, 238 Io 1909, 43 In 2000, and 48 In 2001 for 1809 systems only (see Annex, 83.
Training cost assulas half of IAL without contrect amount.
\J Local ronsultancies onlY. Estimated at P130.000/sann-month inclusive of fees, internsl trave.I and eubsistence.
\U  3 mam- estha.
\12 I  on-montta.
\   bout BOO FIGs are eqeacted to he required for  f99scem(ees Annex 8).
Provisio for additional 200 has been made for Wothber systes
\5 9  ZODsD   P900/month for 13D9 syst    onmly (ass Annex 5). Other systems aerasdequately covered under
the Incremental OEM8 comeonent of the ongoing 2059 II.
~oFor 117 RMan assuming the job of bODs e9800/1montb. This provielo.n is not made
under 2059 II sod is, therefore, made here for all systems



Philippinesa
"star Resources Developmnt ProjeCt
Institutional Strengthening of NLA and LAS
batailad Costs
cUSS *oooi
parasar   in 5
Shy.        Gross
lass Cost                   ~~~~~~~~~Totals Includin  Contingencies    Coot. For.   Tax
1)37y   in.   Jl          20      201     Ttl 1997   4993    1999    2000    2001    Total  tat.  sxch. late
I. Investmnt Costa
A. anl
1. Accoatlag sat Financial
Management Mapgstvst /a
laeoiniliation of softa. of
Central Office                             66.a    94.0        -        -       - 131.9    49.4    70.0           -                     3-11.2   2.5   0.0   0.0
TepraimoilAcomiSManue                29.2        -        -       -       -     29.2    20.2 3              -                -      0.2   2.5   0.0   0.0
acoseting easel                   ~~~~~~~~- 30.0                          3  2.0     -    31.6                              31.61  2.5   0.0   0.0
soieerjurhshnp -internal auditing   .44  .44    jJ                4 4.  -  40    2.0.    4.1        4.2    441    4.4        445    213    2.5 0.    0.
Statal Amounsti  sad  Jaacil
, =agat 1revsmt                               99.2   100.0      4.0     4.0      4.0   211.1   102.6   104.0       4.2     4.4      4.5   222.1
5.  saemat raeemtism Syrtmes jb
a. serare Angaisition                     222.1        -   222.4   240.4         -   795.8   242.1        -   244.2   272.3        -   64.4.   5.0  75.0   0.0
b. softwmaresouisitiom                       71.       649.0              -       -    97.5   75.4       .20    5.              -        92.5,   1:.0  75.: 0.
c. Database prngrisg                            -      2.     154l     1.       7.7    295S40                    143     1.         .1     12 00    . 
Xacreinnal operationa" cost               44.2    44.2    5?.?    5?.?    5?.?   265.4    49.0    00.1    44.1    40.4    47.1   2966.   5.0   0.0   6.0
a.Traisia
Local training /c                            -    51 4    22.4   11 2        6.9    96.1        -    55.6    25.1    25O    10.3  104 2   5.0   0.0   0.0
lsafoumtion technology cosutnca   .9     ....L .AS   ....L.......L                    .           ..44       A.9    1059                  6   0.0   0.0   0.0
ftotal Trainin                 t        211232.24.pL                                                           41.0    25.9         
flatal RMsesgtu           LI Isatsyiii   ir-r1,64.iir    =1T                                                                         1 5 1,45
I. NI staff traisiag
Local training for CON equipment             27.3    2?. 2                              4.7    25 0    25 7                               SI 6   1.0   0.0   0.0
Rsf rasher cwrses for
deaipe enginsars Id                        75.0                .                -    75.0    77.60                     -                77.6   2.5   0.0   0.0
Overseas study tsar of irrigation            40                  -                -    490      5.          -       .       .        -    5.6 25 00 50
esase  ant   turnover   to   water   users   /.          ___4_____SO.    _ __50____2_ _5__ _____ ____
Sebtetal Ea sLtaf  traising                    St    Z     I- - -=    175.7 ZII    ..IA                                -        -           1!
Setatal MA                                       vri f71    lT 1W                     1   1,74.    764   265.9   362.9  Mii7    I     190  0
5.      Develnt  5 asgme~t
1. Traiaias
a. UA Trainia
IA training
Ara withot IA /f-                                   .       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       - 26 00 00
Xs without contracts /g.                              ..                       -       .        ..                       -        -       - 2.5   0.0   0.0
Is with contracts                                                                                                                                                                                     -
eitnns/b                                           17.4    17.6l       -    '5.'                     16.9    1.9.         -    38.7   2.5   5.0   0.0
Operation/ls  /1                       ----       27.4    50.2    22.       17.4  1.17.4              M39.   54.4    24.4    19.8   128.1   2.5   5.0   0.0                                           G
fttal IL Tr atsig                             - *i         1671    40.0    17.4   152.1         -    29.3    13.4    44.4    19.6   144.6 
b. Other traiaiag
FotrIng                                3.6     7.7      7.7     0.4      9.6    36.9l    4.0      9.2      .3.    10.7    10.9    402.1   2.5     . 0.00.0
lDOm  initiatraining                              $:8.     6.5            -        19.         .     90      9.                  .    16.2   2.5    .      .
ZOO  seInr I                            ....Ag0o0                   0.0              0.1     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0        -0.1    2.5   0.0   0.0
iubttatrLaiaOtse                           22inng--1  O,i U-T!o ----             7 1417.   -4 .0    17.2    17'.06   10.7    10.9 TE
Subtotal  Otherlo  trinn                               f7      fl71 --- 4      lttf-3 -Nt  _171   1471    11673  37r                0.7   227.2
Houitoring sand evaluation /k                10.0      5.0       .        .             15.0    10.1     5.2        -        .       -    15.2   0.0   0.0   0.0
Padaretios devslwnt /1        20.0    20 0    2~~~__0 0    -       .    60.0    20.2    20.7    21.2         .        -    62.1   0.0   0.0   0.0
X.btetal caessitaney                            1E       ii      2.0         .       .    70.0    1150_  __fl1    21.2 
D. Incremental operating n"ost
a. 910 raquiremsat
Salariss /n                               44.2    02.3    92.3   115.4   115.4   461.5    47.9    97.9   100.2   126.1   131.0   505.0   2.5   0.0   0.0
b. ISO rag-feirmot
Travel in12.5    12.9    12.9    12.                                        12.9    44.4    13.4   .12.7    14.       14.2    14.7    70.1   2.5   0.0   0.1
NOn'oreria lo42.2    43. 2    43. 2    43.2   43. 2   214.0    44.6    45.6    44.9,   40.0    49 .1   234 .5   2.5!  0.0   0.10
R.bttetl IS  rqeiramt                     51J7       j        56.1    54.1  5iEf   200.4    58.2    59.1    40.          4.       63.7   304.6
lubtetal lecroeatal opars.tins casts          IJIYI   146.4   146.4   171.5   171.5   74.2   106.0  157.4   141.1   190.4 .j4j7 .0..A9L
5uhtotsl U  . sslngmat a man.agmost
Turmover Program                                136.1   217.2   212.2   221.1   196.6 1.025.3   140.4   229.6   273.1   245.4   225.5 1.114.2
Total                                                -15r71  -49-4.2 -596.3   559.0   261.8 2,779.4   696.-7  5-1 5.4 614CS-.1   4 27.2   321.5 3.015.2
%a sass costt Includee 2.5% for supervision end adainistretion.                                                                                                                                                -P
\b aes  coet incIses 225 engineering. supervision. and adainistrstie  moete.
\U Icludas training of IT personnel. and uaeram training.
\d Local courass estimated at 978,000/person for 25 pesrons.                                                                                                                                                   H?
\e 5 staftf frmNLand 2 staff from 13&for 3 weeks at -n astimated coat of P162.000/person.
rf44ls   owea  byA    1M9Ib   99.(x
\g 271 lA.To be covered by 1009P 11.
\h Aesssm 48 lAs In 1555 sod 49 lAs In 2000 for 6309 systesm  only ( see Annex 9).                                                                                                                              M
Traiintg coat satisatsd at half of IA without contract amount.                                                                                                                                              K
U1 Assumes 74 [lAs in 11996,129 in 1999. 61 In 2000. and 46 In 2001 for 6509 .ystse  only (ass Annex 5) .
Training cost someon  half of IA without contract asunt.
local=conaltacies only. satimatsd at P120,000/san-month inclusive of fesa,intsrnal travel, and submsitance.
\U  12 msam-notha.
Ab fout 650 IPROs are axpectSd to ho required for 33D9 systems (ass Annex 6).
1Provision f or additional 200 has been maed f or other systems.
\a 56 laOs at 1500/omoth for SEar systems only (see LAsner 6). Other system ars adequately covered under
th  inraata1 Oem c~onsnt of the ongoing IMSP II.
= e 117 lMf asassing the job oftIDGa 99600/wouth. This provision is not mads
undsr 5089 II sad is, tharsfore, made hore for all system.



Philippines
Wtater Resources D - elopfent Project
Itnvireoemntal 1 ,proverent
Detaileii Coost
IPHP -000)
Same Cost-Til   nldn  Cntingenies                                                           Cont. For.   Tax
lgS7     i9S8      1993      2000     2001      tote    i9S7       1i9;l  nCUSi   2niq 20                oa    Rate  Sxch. Rate-
1. Invstent_ Costs
A. cet ol of sbintooiess
1. '1Im/u1^^i^ KIM R12
a. latrstructure /a                                     100.0    100.0       50.0      50.0         -    300.0    108.7    115.7       61.3      65.0         -    350.7   5.0  20.0   2.0
b. Cos  PII  lid    b                                     15.6     15.6      15.6      15.6     15.6      78.0      27.0      2e.2     19.1      20.3      21.5     95.9   5.0  50.0   0.0
c.r_atm_t
supportiv  drugs /c                                   60.2      60.2      60.2      60.2     60.2    301.0       65.4     69.7      73.8      78.3      03.0    370.2   5. 0  90.0   0.0
d.  tlity Vehicle (4WD)                                goo0.0        -         -         -        -    soo.o    652 .1          -        -         -         -    652.215.0  75.0   0.0
*.  etlm t 4      o odteo.. eioe  capign
Training of community ledrs                            45.0         -        -         -         -     45.0      47.7         -         -        --              47.7   2.5   0.0   0.0
Intor_tion dissemination to household  Ora               -0                  . ............            90.0      9S.S                                                 95.5   2.5   0.0   0.0
Srbtota  Educaton  iA tnoztioae_ai.,.                  1350            -        -         -             1-3 5.0      3  -    - I                              -T-  1-43 .2
r. IDcrUentel operationl expwee /d                       102.0    102.0    102.0    102.0    102.0    510.0    110.8    118.0    125.1    132.6    140.6    627.2   S.o  10.0   o.o
Subtotal *'le_hislerila RXS xl2                           oi    -    277.8    227.8  2-27 8    17.81,92-4.0 1Y,097.2 --321.5 -279.4    296.2    245.1  2,239.3
2 . Dtpolo/Ulug xIS Rt
a. Infrastructure                                        100.0    100.0      50.0      50.0         -    300.0    108.7    11S.7       61.3      65.0         -    350.7   S.o  20.0   2.0
b. Case finding                                           67.2      67.2     67.2      67.2      67.2    336.0      73.0      77.8     82.4      87.4      92.6    413.2   S.o  50.0   0.0
c. Tret_mpt
Supportive dxugm                                      536.4    536.4    S36.4    536.4    536.4  2,682.0    582.9    620.7    658.0    697.4    739.3  3,298.4   5.0  90.0   0.0
d. Utility vehicle (41M)                                 600.0         -         -        -              600.0    652.1          -         -         -        -    652.1   5.0  75.0   0.0
,. Mdesion ad t foz4tioe capign /a
Trainting comunity leaders                             45.0         -        -         -         -     45.0      47.7         -         -        --              47.7   2.5   0.0   o.0
Infor_tion disomination to houmeholds                 90.0    _-                       -         -     90.0      95.5                                            95.5   2.5   0.0   0.0
Subtotal  _ Ueto  and isfaz  tion capagn                 135.0 a                                         135.0    143.2          -                  -- 143.2
r. Incremental Weratienal expenses                       102.0    102.0    102.0    102.0    102.0    510.0    110.a    118.0    125.1    132.6    140.6    627.2   5.0  10.0   o.0
Sub'total Di,eelo/e/lo   Rig xs                           1,540.6    805.6    755.6    755.6    705.6  4,563.0  1,670.8   -93-2.2  9-26.8   982 5  -972.5  5,484.8
3.Anaa XIS Ing  10
a. Intrantructure                                        100.0    100.0      50.0      so.o         -    300.0    108.7    115.7       61.3      65.0         -    3s.    S.o  20.0   2.0
b. Caeo Finding                                           11.2      11.2     11.2      11.2      11.2     56.0      12.2      13.0      13.7     14.6      15.4     68.9   S.o  50.0   0.0
C. Sreemtt
Supportive drugs                                     139.2    139.2    139.2    139.2    139.2    696.0    151.3    161.1    170.7    181.0    191.9    856.0   5.0  90.0   o.0
d. Utility v hiclt (Mn)                                  600.0         -         -        -         -    600.0    652.1          -         -         -        -    652.1   5.0  7S.0   o.0
*._atie    and iadek io UeampaigD
Training community leaders                             21.0         -        -         -         -     21.0      22.8         -         -        --              22.8   5.0   0.0   0.0
Infor_tion disdmnation to households                  90.0         -         -         -         -     90.0      97.8         -        --                  -     97.8   5.0   0.0   0.01
Subtotal tbmiefam inf ormation capign                    111.0         -        -         -         -    111.0    120.6          -1--                               2 10 .6_
C. Incemental opeerational excpenses                     102.0    102.0    102.0    102.0    102.0    510.0    110.8    118.0    125.1    132.6    140.6    627.2   5.0  10.0   0.0                         _J
Subtotal Andmm RIS ItCien 10                              1034         524     302.4    302.4    2S2.4  2,273.0  1,155.6    407.8          7.      393.1    347.9  2,7.4
4. Adminitration JCentral Offtie)I
Local con ultancy                                        150.0    150.0         -         -         -    300.0    155.3    165.3           -        -         -    320.6   0.0   0.0   o.0
Utility vehicle (MN)                                     600.0         -         -                          600.0    652.1       -         ---                     652.1   5.0  75.0   0.0
Cewuter                                                  100.0         -        -         -         -    100.0    108.7          -         ---                     108.7   5.0  75.0   e0.
lncr_nmtal operational expenses                           12.0     12.0      12.0 --12.0         12.0     60.0      13.0      13.9     14.7   -15.6        16.5     73.8   S.o  10.0   o.o
Subtotal Adinitration (Cmtral Office)                       862.0    162.0      12.0      12.0    -12.0  1,060.0    929.0    179.2         14.7     15.6      16.5  l,lSS.l
Subtotal Ctrol of *ehisto. oiasin                              78 .     g; 8    157    E,2-97.5  1 ,2 9 7.8  1.47.8  9,820.0  4,852.6  184-0.7    59so1.9 -r -87.4  1,5e2.0 11,554.6
D.  roien  Cotrol r*swo  /t
1. No not inluded in System  Improvemet
a. fgiton 1
Lowr Agno                                                           -    216.0      74.0     43.0    333.0          -         -    270.0      98.1      60.4    428.4   7.0  10.0   2.0
D_soloc NIS                                               -    216.0      74.0      43.0         -    333.0         -    254.7      92.5      57.0         -    404.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
Tagudin                                               216.0     74.0      43.0 _       -         -    333.0    239.2       87.3     5.8          -         -    3So0.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
subtotd xAgion 1                                         216.0O  2-90. 0 -Y333.0    117.0        43.0    999.0    239.2    342.0    426.3    2ss.0         60.4  1,2ii.9
b. xegion I
Por c-Cumin                                                    216.0      74.0      43.0         -    333.0         -    2s4.7      92.5      57.0              404.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
TASIORIS                                                  -    216.0      74.0      43.0         -    333.0         -     254.7     92.5      57.0         -    404.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
Sutotal Regiom 3                                             -      32.0     M'.0.0       06-             6 666.0          509.4  1-8 5 . 0                 '-     804
a. Alia  4                                                                                .
Dum                                                             160       7.0       4.                333.0         -     254.7     92.       5.-               402   I..0  10.0   2.0
Nalatgao_'aa                                          216.0     74.0tO    43.0         -         -    333.0    239.2       87.3     53.8         --             360.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
Sta.Cruz-tbe                                                             216.0      74.0     43.0    333 .0        --         -    270.0      98.1      60.4    428.4   7.0  10.0   2. 0
Stubtotal WAqioe 4                                       216.;    290.0 -393 .0O   117.0         43.0    999.0    239.2    342.0    416.3    155.0         60.TO4  3_212.9
d. moicn S
Tigun                                                     -    216.0      74.0      43.0         -    333.0         -    254.7      92.5      57.0         -    404.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
.  ic  6                                                                                                                                                                                         td P3 >
Sibal1e-San Jose                                     216.0      74.0      43.0         -         -    333.0    239.2      87.3      53.8         -         -    380.2   7.0  10.0   20 o            f, PJ5
Sarotac-Vieijo                                            -    216.0      74.0      43.0         -    333.0         -    254.7      %2.       5 7.0        -    404.2   7.0  10.0   2.0         L4  0J  j$
Sub    lsio                                              216.0    290.0    117.0       43.-              660        32       320    146 3        57.0-               8.                             D1D
t. xqegLe *(  X
Daguitan                                                  -    216.0      74.0      43.0         -    333.0         -     254.7     92.5      57.0         -    404.2   7.0  10.0   2.0 
Hin gyenan                                                -         -    216.0      74.0     43.0    333.0          -         -    270.0      98.1      60.4    428.4   7.0  10.0   2.0             Fl 1
Subtotal Riol a                                                   216. 0    290.0    117.0       43.0    6 6 6.0             25 is.7    362.5    155.0     60.4    832.6                           0  W10
g. Region 9 h
Salug                                                216.0      74.0      43.0         -         -    333.0    239.2      87.3      53.8         -         -    380.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
sibuguey                                                  -    216.0      74.0      43.0         -    333.0         -    254.7      92.5      57.0         -    404.2   7.0  10.0   2.0  
Labngan                                                   -         -    216.0    -74.0      43.0    333.0          -         -    270.0      98.1      60.4    428.4   7.0  10.0   2.0



Subtotal Regis 9                                           216.0    290.0    3133.0    117.0        43.0    999.0    239.2    342.0    416.3    155.0a          60.4  1,212.9
hBegicSa 1
Pulangul                                               216.0      74.0      43.0          -         -    333.0    239.2        67.3      53.6         -         -    360.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
Muleta                                                      -         -    216.0       74.0      43.0    333.0          -         -    270.0       98.1      60.4    426.4   7 .0  10.0   2. 0
Subtotal Regisn 10                                        216.0       74.0    259.0       74.0    -43.0  6666.0   2-39. 2  -6-7.3   323.6             96.1    -60.4    606.7
1. Regisn 11
Siluay                                                 216.0      74.0      43.0          -         -    333.0    239.2        67.3      53.6         -         -    360.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
Lanpon                                                      -    216.0      74.0      43.0          -    333.0          -    254.7       92.5      57.0         -    404.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
Bang"                                                       -         -    216.0      74.0      43.0    333.0           -         -    270.0       96.1      60.4    426.4   7.0  10.0   2.0
Fadada                                                 216.0      74.0      43.0          -         -    333.0    239.2        67.3      53.8         .-    360.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
Subtotal Regis 11                                        4i32.0   3-64.0    3760    117.0           43.0  1,-332 .0    476.4   4-29. 2   4710. 0    155.0    -60.4  I,593.1
J. RegisR 12
6.519                                                  216.0      74.0      43 0          -         -    333.0    239.2        67.3      53.6              -          360.2   7.0  10.0   2.C
8na-                                                   216.0      74.0      43.0          -         -    333.0    239.2       67.3       53.6                         360.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
fttotal Rtegias 12                                        432.0    146.0        i66.0        -             6- 666.0    476.4  1-74 .5    107.5           ---7r-
Subtotal miSs mot included ia system  mpovemet             1,944.0  2, 6 10.0  2,734-9.0    631.0    256.0  7i,992v.0  2, 152. 9  3,077.0  2,936.3  1,101.1    362IrT   9,630.4
2. EISa ladl. ln Sytatms, Mproymeat
a. Reigi 2
Nagapit PIS                                            216.0      74.0      43.0               -         333.0    239.2        67.3      53.6              -          360.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
San Pablo-Cabagen                                           -    215.0      74.0      43.0          -    333.0          -    254.7       92,.5.l.  57 .0        -     404.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
Sutotal Regisn 2                                        2-16 .0    1W5_0    1-17 .0       43.0         -    1UU6_   2-39. 2   3-42.0    146.38-7 .0                 -    784.4
b. Semis 3
cI1inig                                                216.0      74.0      43.0          -    -          333.0    239.2       67.3      53.8               -         360.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
hnget-Heaeia                                                -         -    216.0       74.0      43.0    333.0          -         -    270.0       96.1      60.4  2.Jj4   7.0  10.0   2.0
Subtotal Regis 3                                          216.0       74.0    259.0       74.0      43.0    666.0    239.          73      If          61       6.    i07
,Talaur (proper)                                            -         -    216.0       74.0      43.0    333.0          -         -    270.0       96.1      60.4    426.4   7.0  10.0   2.0
6. RegiOs 9
Dipolo                                                 216.0       74.0      43.0         -               333.0    239.2       67.3      53.6          -         -    360.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
e. Aegism 13
Andanan                                                     -    216.0       74.0      43.0         -    333.0          -    254.1       92.5      57.0          -    404.2   7.0  10.0   2.0
tobtal" flUe iacl.ia SymtsmImprovmeost                        646.0   _654 .0   709 .0    234.0        66.0  2310 7-17 .6    771.2    6806.3    301                120.8  2,305.9
flbtetal REejomf Control Measures                              2,592.0  3,264.0  3_5,056.0  1,065.0    344.0 10,23.   2,670.5  3,649.1  3,622.5  1,431.1    463.1 12,436.4
C. Medainet Mmoitoring /g
1. zi"mat
a. lit..
Field sites                                          3,061.0          -         -         -         -3,061.0  3,346.3             --                   --3,346.3   5.0  75.0   0.0
Central office                                         524.0          -         -                   -     524.0    569.5          ----                                569.5   5.0  75.0   0.0
Incremntal operational expenees                        321.0    321.0    321.0    107.0    107.0  1,177.0    346.6    371.5    393.6    139.1    147.5  1.400.7   5.0  10.0   0.0
Subtotal Mites                                          3,-926.0    321.0    321.0    107.0    107.0  4,762.0  4,266.6   3-71 .5   3-93.6   1-3 9.1    147.5  5,316.4
2. Training
a. Xn-housne training                                       75.0      75.0      75.0         -      54.0    279.0       61.5      66.6      92.0          -      74.4    334.7   5.0   0.0   0.0
b. Overseas training                                           -  1,000.0          -         -             1,000.0          -  1,37.2           -         --  1,157.2   5.0  90.0   0.0
Subtotal traIni----g 75.0  1,075.0                                                 75.0          -     54.0  1,279.0       81.5  1,'244.0    -92.0            -    74.4  1.,491.9
3. Conaultencies /b                                           760.0         -    260.0          -          -  1,040.0    607.3           -    303.7          --  1,111.0   0.0  90.0   0.0-
4. Iacremental pereconel /I
a. 1ie14 Office teems
Field personnel                                      1,333.0  1,333.0    667.0    667.0    667.0  4,667.0  1,449.6  1,542.6    616.2    667.3    919.3  5,595.9   5.0   0.0   0.0                             O
Field travel                                           107.0    107.0    107.0        46.0      46.0    417.0    116.3    123.6    131.3           62.4      66.2    499.9   5.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal Field Office Team                              1,440.0  1,440.0    774.0    715.0    715.0  5,064.0 1Y,56-4.9  1,7666.4   9-49.4    929.7   9605.4 *9179i.I
b. Central Office team /J                                      -         .         -         -         -         -          -         -         .         -         -         .   5.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal scremmetal peraosmel                              1,440.0  1,44.0.0    7754.0    715.0    715.0  5,084.0  1,564.9  1, 66-6.4   9-49. 4   9-2 9.7    965.4  6,095.8
5. Miscellaneous 1k                                           165.0    165 .0    165.0       79.0      79.0    653.0    179.3    190.9    202.4    102.7    108.9    764.2   5.0  20.0   0.0
Subtotal Sedimnat fioriagi                                    6C, 3866.0 -3,001.0  1,595.0    901.0  9-5 5.0 12,8368.0  6,689-9.6  31,4 72 . 81,941.3  1,171.5  1,7316.2 -14,60 1.4
D. Ravi rumes,t Peit
1. Coneultsncies/1                                            390.0         .         -                   -     390.0    403.6           -         -         -         -    403.6   0.0   0.0   0.0
Total                                                              13,646.6  7T, 662.81 5r,95-0 .6  3,263.6  2,446.6 T33,371.0 15,026.4  9,162.6  7,355.77  4W,27-0.1  31,36-1.3 39,7196.1
~aIncludes toilet conetruction, steptic tank and bowl, end technical advice.
Drainage, desilting. end construction Of footbridgee have been included as pert of Systems Ixprovaent S Repair Coempnent.
\b Includee Estogatz kits, wax paper, end milaeo paper.
\C Includes antiheluinthic, multivitamins. and ferrous sulphate. Praziquantal and anti-reaction to be provided by D01H.
\d Includes trawel coet (eP 12000/year) and honoraria for 15 personnel (eP6000/year/person) .
\e To be dme In Leyte.
\f Includes planting Of vetiver grams, contouring etc.
Dame coat includes 7% for engineering, supervision, end administration.
\g flame coat includes 7% for engineering,auparvision, and admLinistration.
\h 2 man-mooths over three years (expatriate consultant).
\i URDP will provide two-thirds of the total cost, the rest to be borne by MIA (approx .P 2.4 million)
\J To be provided by 316..
\k Includes supplies, printing, and sundriesm.
\1 3 man-mouths (local consultant).
(D  H  M
(D X
o  L) 
(.a 
0 (0



Philippines
water Resources Devalopsent Project
taviroousntal legrovenant
Detailed Coats
CUSS 1000)
Prameers(in
Bass cost                              Totals Including Contingencies             Coot. For.   Tax
1997    1998   1L999    2000    2001    Total   1997    1998   1L999    2000    2001    Total  Rate  Rxch. Rate
I. iuvest~t coats
A. COstrol af achietososiesis
1. MIagf/tleaslea DLXS 8
a. Infrastructure Ia                                      3.3     3.8      1.9      1.9        -    11.9     4.1      4.2      2.1     2.2        -    12.6   5.0  20.0   2.0
b. Ca"e lPflding lb                                       0.6     0.6      0.6      0.6     0.6      3.0     0.6      0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7      3.3   5.0  50.0   0.0
5.Treaftmn
tacortive drugs /c                                    2.3      2.3      2.3     2.3      2.3    21.6      2.5      2.5     2.6      2.6      2.7    12.9   5.0  90.0   0.0
d.tility Vehicle (414D)                                23.1        -        -       -        -    23.1    24.5         -       -        -        -    24.5   5.0  75.0   0.0
a.MA-tiumsa .. f-ormetise cagaigm
Training of community leaders                          1.7       -        -        -       -      1.7     1.8                                         1.8   2.5   0.0   0.0
Istorstion disaesinationt to household wemers         3.5        -        -        -       -      3.5     3.6        -        -                -     3.6   2.5   0.0   0.0
Subtotal Uidecatisea an  imaozatios camaign                1         -                               5.2     5.4        -        -        -       -      5.4
f. lncramntal ope-rational expenses /d                    3.9     3.9      3.9      3.9     3.9    19.6      4.2      4.3      4.4     4.5      4.6    21.8   5.0  10.0   0.0
Subtotal 3lenglMalesila 3t15 312                         -3l5    -10.7        8.8      8.8    -6.8   -74.0    4 1.2   -11.6       9.7    10.0    -8.0    80.5
2. D4soleISalug, 3X3 Ng
a. Infrastructure                                         3.8     3.8      1.9      1.9        -    11.5     4.1      4.2      2.1     2.2        -    12.6   5.0  20.0   2.0
b. Case Finding                                           2.6     2.6      2.6      2.6     2.6    12.9       2.7     2.8      2.9      2.9     3.0    14.4   5.0  50.0   0.0
C. 2Traatt
Supportive drugs                                      20.6    20.6    20.6    20.6    20.6   103.2    21.9    22.4    22.9    23.5    24.0   114.7   5.0  90.0   0.0
U. tility VehiCle (43D)                                23.1        -        -        -       -    23.1    24. 5        -        -       -        -    24.5   5.0  75. 0   0.0
a. Udcat     indWmmostis ewvaisn I
Training cimanity leaders                              1.7       .        -        -       -      1.7     1.8        -        -        -       -      1.8   2.5   0.0   0.0
Information dissemination to households           ......A        -        -        -       -      3.5     3.6        -        -                      3.6   2.5   0.0   0.0
Subtotal z0catin and istaatios owmaigs                               -       -7  -             -     5.2      5.4       -                 -       -      5.4
f. Incremental operationakl expenses                 ..j9         3.9      3.9      3.9     3.9    19.6      4.2      4.3      4.4     4.5      4.6    21.8   5.0  10.0   0.0
Subtotal vipolo/Sa2ug RZS Rt                                59.3   3-1.0    29.1   -29.1   -27.1 -1175.5  6-2.8  3-3.7    32.3    33.0   -31.6 19.
3. Ladassa RIB Regist 10
a. Infrastructure                                         3.8     3.8      1.9      1.9        -    11.5      4.1     4.2      2.1      2.2       -    12.6   5.0  20.0   2.0
b. Case Finding                                           0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4     2.2      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      2.4   5.0  50.0   0.0
a. Treatmsent
oSupportee drugs                                      5.4      5.4      5.4     5.4      5.4    26.8      5.7      5.8      6.0     6.1      6.2    29.8   5.0  90.0   0.0
d. Utility vehicle (43)                                  23.1                -        -             23.1    24.5         -       -        -       -    24.5   5.0  75.0   0.0
a. Ufmleati  and lnammatin cewaigs
Traininig conmnity leeders                             0.8       -        -        -        -     0.8     0.9        -        -        -       -      0.9   5.0   0.0   0.0
Information dissemtination to households              3.5                                         3       .5  3.7    -        -       -        -     3.7   5.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal Udtacade and ilafosmatia eoaeiga               -4.3         -       -        -        -     4.3    -4.5        -        -                .      4.5                                                 -
f. Incremental operational expenses                       3.9     3.9   _3.9        3.9     3.9    19.6      4.2      4.3      4.4     4.5      4.6    21.8   5.0  10.0   0.0                                '
Subtotal Adamam KIN Regios 15                               40.9   -13.6    11.6    11.6    -9.7   -87.4   -43.4    14.7    12.9    13.2    11.3    95.6
4. Aaaaiaitratics (Catreal Office)
Local consultancy                                         5.8     5.8        -        -        -    11.5      5.8     6.0        -        -       -    11.8   0.0   0.0   0.0
Utility vehicle (45R0)                                   23.1        -        -       -        -    23.1    24.5S                     -                 24.5   5.0  75.0   0.0
Computer                                                  3.8        -       -        -        -     3.8      4.1        -       -        -       -      4.1   5.0  75.0   0.0
Inormantal operational expenses                           0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      2.3     0.5      0.5      0.5   -0.5     0.5        2.6   6.0  10.0   0.0
SuttlAdiaistratiee (Central Office)                    33.2      6.2     0.5      0.5      0.5    40.8   -34.9    -6.5       0.5      0.5     0.5    43.0
Subtotal Costrol of schistossiasis                            1.72.3    6.5    49.9    49.9    44.1 37.           184       6.5      55      5.8      14 425
D. fnleet Ostrol Measures If
I. RINS skot iancluded La Sysfta  DWrOVma t
a. Resins 1
Loser Agno                                               -        -     8.3      2.8     1.7    12.8                        9  .4   3.3      2.0    14.7   7.0  10.0   2.0
flMiloc RIS                                                    0 .3     2.8      1.7        -    12.8        -     9.2      3.2      1.9       -    14.3   7.0  10.0   2.0
Tagudin                                                8.3     2.8      1.7        -        -    12.8     9.0      3.2      1.9        -       -    14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0
Subtotal Region 1                                        T3      11.2    12.8       4.5    -1.7   -38.4       9.0  1-2.3   -14.5        5.2     2.0    43.0
b. Rashes I
Porac-Oumain                                             -     8.3      2.8      1.7       -    12.8         -     9.2      3.2     1.9        -    14.3   7.0  10.0   2.0
TASNWRZS                                                       8.3      2.8      1.7        -    12.8        -     9.2      3.2     1.9        -    14.3   7.0  10.0   2.0
Subtotal Regian 3                                                16.6      5.7      3.3        -    25.6             184    -6.4    -3.8           -   28.7
a. Regis 4
DumacaLa                                                 -     8.3      2.8      1.7        -    12.8        -     9.2      3.2     1.9        -    14.3   7.0  10.0   2.0
meletgso                                               8.3     2.8      1.7        -        -    12.8      9.0     3.2      1.9        -       -     14.0   7.0  20.0   2.0
ata.Crus-Mabacan                                         -        -     8.3      2.8     1.7    12.8         7       -      9.4     3.3      2.0    14.7   7.0  10.0   2.0
Subtotal Regisn 4                                        T?J     11.2    12.8       4.5    -1.7   -38.4       9.0    12.3   -14.5    -5.2    73F-    43.0
4.Regis 5
Tigmn                                                    -     8.3      2.8      1.7        -    12.8        -     9.2      3.2      1.9       -     14.3   7.0  10.0   2.0
e. aegisn 5                                                                                                                                                                                         tO~
Sihalom-gen Jose                                       8.3     2.8      1.7        -   -         12.8     9.0      3.2      1.9        -   -        14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0                       Qi P)Z
Darotac-Vieijo                                           -     8.3      2.       1. l7 ----    12.8B         -     9.2      3.2     1.9        -     14.3   7.0  10.0   2.0                     Lo~ t3l
Subtotal akegisn 6                                        8.3    11.2      4.5      1.7        -    25.6      9.0    12.3      5.1      1.9        -   28.4                                         (D  H- (D
f. aegist                                                                                                                                                                                               (D x
Deguitan                                                 -     8.3      2.8      1.7        -    12.8        -     9.2      3.2     1.9        -     14.3   P.O  10.0   2.0H
Ninagysnan                                               -              83       2.8     1.7    12.8          .......-..    9.4     3.3      2.0    14.7   7.0  10.0   2.0HH
Subtotal RegionS8                                           -      8.3    11.2      4.5    -1.7   -25.6         -     9.2    12.6    -5.2    -2.0   -29.0                                           0  .0 C)
g. Regis 9
Salug                                                  8.3     2.8      1.7        -       -    12.8      9.0      3.2      1.9        -       -    14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0
Sibuquey                                                 -     8.3      2.8      1.7       -    12.8         -     9.2      3.2     1.9        -    14.3   7.0  10.0   2.0                       N
Labanga                                                  -        -     8.3      2.8     1.7    12.8                 -      9.4     3.3      2.0    14.7   7.0  10.0   i.o



Jubtotal Eagle. 9                                         6.3    11.2    12.6       4.5     1.7    36.4       9.0    12.3    14.5       5.2     2.0    43.0
h. Eagle 10
MulenguLi                                              6.3     2.6      1.7        -       -    12.6      9.0      3.2      1.9       -        -    14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0
mdota                               -                       2.8     2.  -n .II                                 3.3             147IIA0,              .
I. Eagle  3.1mis3.
611065'                                               6.3      2.6      1.7        -       -     12.6     9.0      3.2      1.9       -        -    14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0
Napon                                                    -     6.3      2.6      1.7       -    12.6        -      9.2      3.2     1.9        -    14.3   7.0  10.0   2.0
Banga                                                    -       -      6.3     2.6      1.7    12.6                 -     9.4      3.3      2.0    14.7   7.0  10.0   2.0
Fadmida                                               6.3      2.6      1.7        -       -    12.6    91.0       3.2     1.9,                     14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0
Subtotal Eagle 11                          iri~~~~__1  14.   -14.5    -4.5     T3'  -51.2    16.0    15.5   -16.4         5.2  -T3        57.0
2"Pm                                                  6.3      2.6      1.7        -       -    12.6      9.0      3.2      1.9       -        -    14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0
Rugan                        ~J3                               2.6      1.7        -       -    12.6      9.0      3.2      1.9,                    14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0
Subtotal EAgle  3                                        16.6    5.7       T1         -   -         25.6    160       6.3     rY          -       -    26.0
Subtotda XISs nt laclud"in LaYfLat    INroyat               74.6   100.4    90.3    3 2.0 -r          374         3    111.1  170237    37.0   121.6  3-43.2
2. EISa "las i  system  Imrovemnt
Negepit via                                            6.3     2.6      1.7        -       -     12.6     9.0      3.2      1.9        -       -    14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0
San Peblo-Cehagan                                        -      .3      2.6     1.7        -     12.6        -     9.2      3.2     1.9        -    14.3   7.0  10.0   2.0
Subtotal Regin  2                                         8.3    II2       4i       17I7       - H-Ir       -9.0  -iT-7        5.1    -19         -
b. Eagl 3
liing                                               6.3      2.6      1.7        -       -     2.6      9.0      3.2      1.9       -        -    14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0
Aagat-Nmaaia                                                                     2.6     1.7    11.3         -               .4     3.3      2.0    14.7   7.0  10.0   2.0
Subtotal Eaglis I                                         F.;     2.6    i0T        2.6     1.7    25.6      9.0      3.2    11.3       33   .T     26.7
sa.Egle. 6
Jalaur (proper)                                          -        -     6.3     2.6      1.7    12.6         -       -      9.4     3.3      2.0    14.7   7.0  10.0   2.0
tfleugle 9
Dipolo                                                 3.3     2.6      1.7        -       -    12.6      9.0      3.2      1.9        -       -    14.0   7.0  10.0   2.0
e.Eales 13
Andanan                                                  -     6.3      2.6     1.7        -    12.6         -     9.2  3___2       I     ___        14.3   7.0  10.0   2.0
Subtotal XISa iacl.As Systems improveaet                    24.9    H!       27.3      I50   3T3         .7'   27.0    1T9    3F9        TA        3~TF
Sutotal fl*oat. Coasua  Mese                                   99.7   1235.5   117.6  IIIni    0.    un                             3.   i3          1.       4.
C. Sitet Ealtorlag /g
a. Sites
Field site.                                         116.5        -                -        - 116.5   125.9           -        -       - -          125.9   5.0  75.0   0.0
Centrul office                                       20.2        -        -        -       -    20.2    21.4         -        -       - -           21.4   5.0  75.0   0.0
Incrental operational expnaces                       12.3    12.3    12.3       4.1      4.1    45.3    13.1    13.4    13.7        4.7      4.6    49.7   5.0  10.0   0.0
Subtotal Sites                                         I1510    _12.3 ~ii          4.1    -4.1   16.    104          13.4 -137    -4.7    -4.6   197.0
a. In-boues training                                      2.9     2.9      2.6        -     2.1    10.7      3.1      3.1      3.2              2.4    11.6   5.0   0.0   0.0
h. Overase  training                                        -    33.5        -        -       -    36.5         -    41.6                 -            41.6   5.0  90.0   0.0I
Sb"total tralala                                         _73    -41.3    IT7              -    2.1   -49.2      3.1   -44.9       3.2        -     24      5.
3. Coneultancies lb                                         30.0        -    10.0        -       -    40.0    30.3         -    10.6         -       -     40.9   0.0  90.0   0.0
4. Incrmetal pereesel /ItO
a. Field Office Teaem
Field personnel                                      51.3    51.3    25.7    25.7    25.7   179.5    54.5    55.7    26.5    29.2    29.6   197.7   5.0   0.0   0.0
Field trawel                                          4.1      4.1      4.1          1.6  .     16.0      4.4      4.5     4.6      2.1      2.1    17.7   5.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal fie1d Office teamse                             55.4    55.4    29.0    27.5   -27.5   195.5    56.6        602      3.      313       20 252
b. Central Office tea. /J                                   -        -       -        -                                                            .-...............  5S.0   0.0   0.0
SubtotaLl soretal pereonnel                                 55.4    55.4    29.6    27.5    27.5   195.5    56.6    60.2    33.1    31.3    32.0   215.3
5. Misellaneous /k                                          6.3     6.3      jj3      3.0     3.0 .jjfl         6.7     6.9      7.       3.5     3.5    27.7   5.0  20.0   0.0
Sumbtotal  aSedient flhtoriag                                 245.    11.    6J          3.        67 49.          5.      2.        77    39.4    42.7  3T
3. Etawiramt mLit
1. Consultancieu /1                                         15.0                     - -                5.0    15.2        -        -        -       -    15.2   0.0   0.0   0.0
Total  I                                                           53-2.6   302.4   226.5   125. 5    914.1 _1.26.S   564.6 _330.9  2T56.4  1'4 i3.6   109.6S 1,405.4
\a Includes toilet construction, septic tank and howl, end technical advice.
Drainage, deeilting, and Construction of footbridgee have bean included ae part of Syatems; Improvement a Repair Ccoonent.
\h Includee Katolata kite, wax paper, and amien paper.
\c Includes antihelminthic, waltivitamine, and ferrous eulphate. Preziguantal and anti-reaction to he provided by DON.
\d includes trawel coat (GP 12000/year) end honoraria for 15 pereonnel (eP6000/yearlparson).
\e To be done in Leyte.
\f includes planting of vetiver grace, contouring etc.
flee coat includes 7%; for engineering, aupervision, end admminietration.
\g flee coat includes 7% for engineering. eupervision, and adainietration.
\h 2 man-motba over three yeare (enpatriate Coneultant).
\   vUM     ill,provide two-thirde of the total cost, the rest to he horns by VFIA (approx.P 2.4 million)
\T  bprvded by NIL.
\k Includee supplima. printing, end eundries.
\1 3 men-umoths (local consultant).
(D X
N
0 D.QC
rh
to



- 181 -
ANNEX I I
Page l of 3
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES QFVE.LQPMENT PROJECT
AnnexAJ1: Financing Plan. Loan Allocation and Disbursements
List of Tables
Table 1: Financing Plan and IBRD Loan Allocation
Table 2: Schedule of Loan Disbursements



- 182 -
ANNEX I I
Page 2 of 3
Table 1: Financing Plan and IBRD Loan Allocation
(US$ million)
IBRD
Cost Item                       Total Cost         %     Amount          DANIDA    Government
Works                              70.3             a       52.4              -             17-9
Equipment, Vehicles,
Materials, and Agricultural
Inputs                           5.0           - b        4.5              -              0.5
Consultancy and Training            5.4C           0         0.0            1.2              4.2
Incremental Operating Costs d       4.5         25.0         1.1              -              3.4
Total Project Cost                 85.2                     58.0            1.2             26.0
Bank disbursement would be 100% of foreign exchange expenditures (ICB contracts) and 72% of local
expenditures (excluding costs of land acquisition).
b      Bank disbursement would be 100% of foreign exchange expenditures of imported items, 100% of the ex-
factory cost of such items manufactured locally and 80% of expenditures for items procured locally.
c      US$4.6 million for consultancy and US$0.8 million for training. This is eventually expected to be financed
mostly by grants from international donors (in addition to US$1.2 million from DANIDA, which is already
committed), with whom negotiations are in progress.
d      Includes incremental staff costs and honoraria, administrative support costs, costs of contracting NGOs for
organizing communities for watershed management, printing, equipment 0 & M cost for sediment
monitoring, and travel cost of project staff, including counterpart staff for various project studies.



- 183 -
ANNEX 1 
Page 3 of 3
Table 2: Schedule of Loan Disbursements'
Cumulative              Philippines Standard
IBRD Fiscal                      Disbursements           Disbursement Profile for
Year     Semester                   US$ million  %           the Agriculture Sector (%)
1997        2                          3.0      5                    3
1998        1                          8.0     14                    6
2                         16.0     28                   14
1999        1                         25.0     43                   18
2                        33.0      57                   26
2000        1                         40.0     69                   34
2                        45.0      78                   46
2001        1                         50.0     86                   54
2                        52.0      90                   62
2002        1                         54.0     93                   70
2                        56.0      97                   78
2003        1                         58.0    100                    86
Expected Loan Closing Date is December 31, 2002



- 184 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
PIIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Project Funding by Government and World Bank
(P! MILLI0ON
Implementing Agency/Item of
Expenditure/Funding Source                     1997    I199      199     2000    2M0I   Tota
NWRB
A. From Government a/
For: 1. Equipment and Vehicles                    I        1        1        -        -       3
2. Consultancy                             29        40        -        -        -      69
3. Training                                 2         1        -        -        -       3
4. Incremental Operating Costs              2         2        6       6        6       22
Subtotal (from Government)                 34        44        7       6        6       97
B. From World Bank b/
For: 1. Equipment and Vehicles                    9        3        9        -        -      21
2. Incremental Operating Costs               I        1        2        2       2        8
Subtotal (from World Bank)              10         4      11        2        2      29
DENR
A. From Government a/
For: I. Equipment, vehicles, and Inputs           I        I        I        I       2        6
2. Consultancy                             21        14       10        -               45
3. Training                                  I        -        -        -        -       I
4. Incremental Operating Costs               1        4       10       15      15       45
5. Works                                     -        7       17      26       26       76
Subtotal (from Government)              24        26       38      42       43      173
B. From World Bank b/
For: 1. Equipment, Vehicles and Inputs            1        5       12       19       19      56
2. Incremental Operating Costs               I        1        3        5       5       15
3. Works                                     -       17       43      65       71      196
Subtotal (from World Bank)                2       23       58       89      95      267
NIA (including DOHE
A. From Government a/
For: 1. Works c/                                 60      116      105       80      50      411
2. Equipment, Vehicles and Materials        2         1        1        1        -       5
3. Consultancy                               5        3        2        1       1       12
4. Training                                  5        5        4       2        2       18
5. Incremental Operating Costs              5         5        6       7        9       32
Subtotal (from Government)               77      130      118       91      62      478



- 185 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Imlementing Agency/ltem of
Expenditure/Funding Source                                  1nM      B        Z1       2I   Lia
B. From World Bank b/
For: 1. Works d/                                   263       480      299       192      126    1,316
2. Equipment, Vehicles and Materials          29         2         8        8         1      48
3. Incremental Operating Costs                 2         2         2        2        2        10
Subtotal (from World Bank)                294       484      309       202      129    1,374
Total (from Government)                            135       200      163       139      111      748
Total (from World Bank)                            306       511      378      293       182    1,670
Grand Total                               441       711      541       432      293    2,418
a/     Grant funding from international donors is being explored for consultancy and training and, if and when
available, will be substituted for Government counterpart funding. DANIDA has already confirmed a grant
of US$1.2 million equivalent for the watershed management study.
b/     World Bank funding would be 90% of total expenditures for equipment, vehicles, inputs and materials
(weighted average of directly imported items, which would be financed at 100%, and locally-procured
items, which would be financed at 80%); 25% of incremental operating costs; and 100% of foreign
exchange costs and 72% of local costs of works (excluding costs of land acquisition).
c/     Including costs of land acquisition and other resettlement activities.
d/     Excluding costs of land acquisition.



- 186 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1.    The project has multiple objectives and some of its development impacts will not be easily
measurable. This applies in particular to improved water resources planning and management,
improved watershed management, and institutional strengthening of NIA and the lAs. It is,
therefore, necessary to have some proxy indicators, which would provide a reasonable basis to
conclude that the project achieved its intended development impact. Appendix I provides a matrix
of project objectives; key performance indicators; estimated values (where applicable) for baseline
(1995), mid-term (end of 1999), implementation completion report (year 2002), and full impact (year
2004); and risks. The measurability of development impact of different components can be easily
assessed from the matrix. Project inputs have not been shown in Appendix I since they are covered
in the cost tables in Annex 10. The Progress Reports to be prepared by the implementing agencies
will include information on project inputs and processes, as well as project outputs. Based on this
information and the Bank review during supervision, assessment of the project development impact
will be made by the Borrower and the Bank.
2.    Given multiple components and the difficulties of impact measurement for some
components, an overall assessment of the project development impact during implementation, at
completion and after completion will necessarily be imprecise. It is proposed to facilitate the overall
assessment by assigning weights to the different components as follows:
Development
Impact
Component                                                     Weight
Improved Water Resource Management                              20
Improved Watershed Management                                   15
Irrigation Systems Improvement and Repair                       35
Institutional Strengthening of NIA and the IAs                  20
Environmental Improvement                                       10
Total                                                 lo0
3.    The above weights, which are subjective, reflect the importance assigned at appraisal to the
objective of the component within the overall project framework, and have no relationship to the
project costs incurred for the component.  A total score of 80 and above during project
implementation and at completion should be regarded as a highly satisfactory project development
impact, 51 to 79 as satisfactory, 35 to 50 as unsatisfactory, and less than 35 as highly unsatisfactory.
4.    To further facilitate the overall assessment of project development impact, key performance
indicators were chosen (Appendix 1) and assigned weights (within the overall weights shown in
para. 2 above). The weights of key performance indicators (some of which are proxy indicators) are
detailed below:



- 187 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
(a)    For the improved water resources management component, the development impact
is extremely difficult to assess. One of the project outputs, formulation of a Nat:onal
Water Resources Plan, would be the main (proxy) indicator, since this project output
has the best potential at this stage to improve water resources management in the
country. The indicator would have a score of 10. Other indicators would be: (i) the
strengthening of NWRB (score of 5); (ii) improvement of national water data
collection (score of 3); and (iii) establishment of a water information network (score
of 2). Any shortfalls in the above indicators would result in a component score lower
than 20.
(b)    For the improved watershed management component, the same problem  of
assessment arises and, again, one of the project outputs, formulation of a national
strategy and long-term investment and institutional strengthening program for
watershed management, was chosen as the key (proxy) indicator, with a score of 10.
Since the impact of investments in improving the management of selected high
priority watersheds, to be undertaken after the completion of the study above, is
difficult to envisage at this stage, a score of 5 is assigned to this sub-component.
(c)    For the irrigation systems improvement sub-component, a score of 30 would be
assigned if the increase in irrigated area in the improved systems equals or exceeds
appraisal expectations, or there is sufficient evidence to believe that the irrigated area
will equal or exceed appraisal expectations within a year or two after project
completion.  The increase in irrigated area is a proxy indicator for increased
production, income and employment of small farmers and landless agricultural
workers, which would have a significant impact on rural poverty alleviation. The
repair of major structures and construction of silt excluders (also proxy indicators)
would have a score of 5. Any shortfalls in the above indicators would result in a
component score of less than 35.
(d)    For the institutional development component, the full score of 20 would be assigned
if, by the end of the project: (i) 19 small NIS (improved under the project ancd the
ongoing IOSP II) are completely turned over to the lAs and the responsibility for
O&M of laterals and sub-laterals of other systems improved under the proje-t is
turned over to the lAs; and (ii) NIA's total income from ISF and equipment rental
from the 14 selected systems is sufficient to cover O&M expenses of these NIS. The
above two key indicators will have equal weight. Any shortfalls in achievement
would lower the component score from 20.
(e)    For the environmental improvement component, a score of 5 would be assigned if the
reduction in the schistosomiasis prevalence rate envisaged at appraisal for two NIS is
achieved and the prevalence rate for one NIS is maintained. This would be the key
indicator. Other relatively minor indicators (satisfactory erosion control works in 31
NIS and sediment monitoring in 3 NIS, and establishment of an Environment Unit in
NIA), which are not shown in Appendix 1, would have a score of 5.
5.    Appendix I also shows the risks of non-achievement of project outputs and impact. These
risks are discussed in greater detail in para. 6.14 of the SAR and have been taken into account in the
economic and sensitivity analysis (para. 6.11 of the SAR).



ANNEX 13
-  188   -                                           Appendix I
PHILIrNEINZ
WATFR RFSOQIRCES DEVFLOPMEiNT PROIECI
Key Perrormknce Indicetors mnd Risks
ProcstObieccdvt  lmane Indic iors                         Baseline    iMid-Trm       ICR'         Full Iapect             Risks
ObIectivel D M MK   rmcLndiemm                (1995)    (End 1999)     (2002)         (2004)
Improved Wotwr Rtaoffoue          I  Fonnulatios    of a Nadonal Wuea                     Compied         -                            Risk   of   non-
Plangi and           t Mumag t        Resources Plan (project output as a                                                               achievement   of
proxy indicator for impact).                                                                     project    out-ut-
2. Strcmgthening  of NWRB    (project                      -         Comnplced       -              minor   financial
proce.s  a a proxy indicator for impct).                                                         requirenents  for
3. Impovement of national water data         _         Comnpited                      -              NWRB
coflecdon  - study  and  equipment                                                                strensi ening very
(project output indicator).                                                                      small;      gant
4. Establishmnent of a  national water         _            -          Compiaed        -             fwnding likely to
infonnation  network  -  study  and                                                              be available.
equipment (project output indicator).
Improved Wateshed Manaeent    1. Formulation of a national saey  and             _          Completed                     -             Risk   of   non-
long-term  investment and institutional                                                          achievemeAt   of
strengthling program  for wateshed    -                                                          project    output
managment (project output as a proxy                                                             minor.      gnSt
indicat  for impact),                                                                            finding  for  dtie
etudy    alraedy
commitued     by
DANIDA.
incrase in Agriculiural Production   1. Incrase in irrigted amra (project output                                                       Significant
nd Poverty Aleviatton (throngh        as a proxy indicator for impact)2                                                                financial     mnd
lrtigon Systemu Improvement and                wet season (ha)                    73.J50'      79,200           94,000        95,700   institutional risks:
Rapir)                                         dry eason (ha)                     71,330'       76,900          90,600        92,000   uiadequate   and
delayed
1.1  Drinage  canals excavated  or                                                               counterpart  fund
improved  (project output sub-                                                              rleate; and non-
indicator)                                                                                  cooperation of iAs
-No.                                          10              45            45   (se  par 6.14 of
- Lngtt (Klm)                 _              108             292           292   SAR for deatils)
1.2  Irigation  canals  and  lateraln
imptrved (project  output sub-
indicator)
-No.                        _                175             255           255
- Lengtb (Km)                                544            1,272         1,272
2. Repairs to major structutes (project
output indicator)  -No.                                       9               9             9
3. Construction of ilt excluders (project
outputindicator)   -No.                                       5                5             5
More  Efficient,  Equitable  and   1. Percent recovery of O&M  cost of 14            86            90              100           100   Significant  dskr
Sustainable Dolivwny of Irition       NIS  from ISF and equipment rental                                                               non-chievemnmt
Seicets  (through   b titutt         income (impact indicator)'                                                                        of  improvamen
DevelopmentofNIA nd LAs)              1.1  Faiot increase in iSF collection          59            65               75            75   on NIS; mid lack
efficiency (impect sub4ndicator)'                                                           of fuill coopradon
of IA members
2. Completetnder of anaIlser NIS lo iAt                           7              19            19
(project proces as a proxy indicator for                                                         Sigificant  fitk
impsta)             -No.                                                                         lack    of   full
coopration of IA
3. Trastfer of O&M  of improved laterals                                                             metnbws,      and
and sub-lateas in Ierpr NIS (project                        100              175          215   resistnce of NIA
proce  aS a proxy indicator for impact)                                                         tseaff to transfer of
- No of lars and suo-terals                                                                  NIS to iA   (sen
pargapb 6.14 of
SAR for detils)
fEnironmental Improvemnent        I  Schisoomits control in 3 NIS (impctt                                                              Risk       minor
indicalor)                                                                                       finacing
1.1  Pement  reduction  in  Schtisto           6             5                3             3   requiranaet imail;
prevaence in Andenan NIS                                                                    and         DOH
1.2  Percent  reducion  in  Schisto            S             6                4            4    experienced    in
prevalenem in Dipolo NIS                                                                    Sehitto contnro
1.3  Prevendon  increae in Schistto            I              I                I
prevalence in M'La'sn/Maai ils
NIS
I - - Olt
2 Sum en Iulset Syo tupan  Pml"_us fore f itCt. {t NtS a.sttill u be pesm,n  g  th larlps id ar. hos    k  d Inista lunateu satulv
3 TebusxinWips.dteen aysein          swto  .lSU  & i"wttidw m  amiol_% of ordtime. (SmAmmaIS,Appmek2)lafoxrsftadd-mm, ICRt blimpatae
alo fr 55% musaee
4           i            o dtestbiadlixxtr br en impeanet of imsm n and r     _  itt be Ie d I th xv  Reput thus asb-iadaami1t be bed ent e
Do al-t  Aedtt  U I       leepsxm  darlbed in Anx 6. Thu  tiviit  mill be litbed mUm ITim 5y_ t          t PIm far mob ste (duails at Anax
agWt re_lsttt uWn     Ansd wiS glo be malMdL
S OCte am ism  stu  les-d  Ii pta   15% fer oaveh. ISP is en sat ISF uallin duat 1 mW  SP atleuda u    tuso I n en x of padly, 101tO, dimsss hr piePI
piyme  s_vs of LtO, tad eleWlisa uusm, Whilen mel 1SF allbion is 199S fr 14 NIS wm  P1i .111mm, enot hosm  m  P7_.8 _llUa (90% of its mt  l The
e _mun    for Oitt 14 NIS mu Pn.. mitrla. Total 0M aLspedls mu P96 millisa (ti3.4 ullioa it sytem 'ted    I% wSeaubaah
4  Effoio I idlaesi  ttatou ISP ellels us paesa ed em  ISP billing.



- 189 -                       ANNEX 14
PHlILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suvervision Plan--Bank Supervision Missions Schedule
Mission Timing     Specialty and Duration (Weeks)                    Total
No.  (Mo./Yr.)    Engr. Agr.  Econ. Fin.  Ins.  WRS  WSS  Staff  Staff Weeks
1*     1/97         1    --      1          --    1  1    --    4         4
2      5/97         2     --     2     --    1        1     1    5         7
3      9/97         2      1     2      1    1        1     1    7        9
4      3/98         2     --     2      1    1        1    --    5         7
5      9/98         2     --     2     --    1        1     1    5        7
6      3/99         1    --      I    --    1         1    --    4        4
7      9/99         1    --      I    --    I         I    --    4        4
8**    3/00         2      1     2      1    1        1     1    7        9
9      9/00         1    --      1    --   --         I    --    3        3
10      3/01         1    --      1    --    1        1    --    4         4
1 1     9/01         1      1     1    --   --        1    --    4         4
12      3/02         1    --      1    --    1        1    --    4         4
13***   9/02         1      1     1     1    1        1      1    7        7
Total               18      4    18     4   1 1      13      5            73
Notes.
Engr. - Engineer                   Ins. - Institutional Specialist
Agr. - Agriculturist               WRS. - Water Resources Management Specialist
Econ. - Economist                  WSS - Watershed Management Specialist
Fin. - Financial Analyst
*   -  Startup implementation mission
** - Mid-term review mission
*** -  Final review mission and initiation of implementation completion report (ICR)
process



- 190 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
Water Resources DeveloDment Proiect
Water Availability for NIS and Possible Increase in Irrieation
1.    The water availability at each of the 14 NIS selected for improvement has been
examined for its sufficiency for the target crop areas in the service area under the
anticipated cropping pattern. In general, the NIS can be divided into two categories: 12
NIS depending on the natural flow in the rivers from which they draw water, and the other
2 for which water is allocated from the storages (Magat and Angat) constructed on the
source streams. Besides the main source of water, most of the NIS also divert water from
smaller streams traversing the service area or located in the vicinity. The releases from
Magat are primarily for irrigation, power generation being dependent on the pattern of
irrigation requirements. However, the available water at Angat has to be shared between
irrigation and Manila water supply, power generation depending on the pattern of the two
requirements. Though allocations are clearly defined at the storages, problems arise due
to the priority for Manila water supply demands, and occasional energy crisis.
2.       An assessment of the supplies available from the main source of each NIS was
carried out earlier as one of the nine tasks identified for project preparation. Under Task
1, the 10 day stream  flows at 80% availability were estimated. In a few cases, the data
generated was based on very limited information and, therefore, had low reliability. The
analysis carried out by the project preparation team is based on the Task 1 results. The
flow available in most of the smaller streams traversing the service area, which is used for
irrigation, is the best judgement of the NIS staff, except where data could be generated.
3.         The cropping pattern at each NIS is invariably paddy in each season. The
irrigation requirements for paddy have been estimated on the basis of pan evaporation
and rainfall recorded at the nearest reliable meteorological station. For all NIS included in
the project, the paddy evapotranspiration is taken as 110% of pan evaporation , deep
percolation as 2 mm per day, the entire rainfall at 80% probability as effective rainfall, and
water conveyance efficiency from the intake of the irrigation system to the delivery at the
farm as 45% in the wet season and 50% in the dry season. A typical calculation of the
paddy area, which can be irrigated in the wet and dry season at Tumauini NIS, is given in
Appendix 1.
4.    The results of the study (Appendix 2) are summarized below for each NIS.
Magapit (service area 10.914 ha): Although the major improvement work pertains
to excavation of drains to relieve the flooding during the wet season, low areas extending
to around 3,600 ha will still be water logged where farmers are not likely to cultivate.
Accordingly, wet season irrigation will be possible only in 7,314 ha. Dry season irrigation
is anticipated in the entire 10,914 ha. The NIS pumps water from the Cagayan river which



- 191 -                          ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 4
has sufficient flow year round. The intake is located sufficiently far from the river mouth
at sea to avoid intrusion of salinity. Sufficient pumping capacity exists.
San Pablo Cabagan (service area 1.273 ha): Besides the main source, there is one
creek having sufficient flow. Water from this creek is diverted to the main canal. Areas
estimated from creek flow (250 ha in wet and 200 ha in dry) are approximate. There
seems to be a good probability of irrigating the full area in the wet season, but in the dry
season about 100 ha would probably not get water.
Tumauini (service area 3,650 ha): There are seven creeks in addition to Tuamauini
river, which provide limnited water for irrigation. An approximation of the areas irrigated
from the creeks during wet season is: Antagan about 300 ha, Malamag 100 ha, Parenza 70
ha, Totto 100 ha, Caronan upper 100 ha and lower 200 ha, Angeapar 50 ha, and Callagan
80 ha. Except for the last from which water is diverted to the main canal network, the
others have check structures irrigating captive areas. The possible area from the creeks in
the wet season is thus 1,000 ha, and only half of this area in the dry season. The available
water remains short throughout the year and irrigation will be possible in only part of the
service area in both the seasons.
Magat District II (service area 23.187 ha): NIA examined in detail the water
availability for irrigation of the entire Magat service area. Water is available for full
service area irrigation in both the seasons. Moreover, the proposed additional area over
the average actual irrigation (1,598 ha in wet and 1,972 ha in dry) includes about 900 ha
which is proposed to be brought under irrigation from check structures on the drains.
Angat-Maasim (service area 31.485 ha!: The main source of water is the regulated
flow from the Angat dam, which is diverted into the canals on both banks at Bustos. The
additional sources are the flow from the uncontrolled catchment of the Angat river
between the Angat dam and the Bustos diversion structure, and the natural flows in the
Maasim river. The water availability and possible irrigation areas have been worked out as
follows:
a)    meeting the requirement of 2,110 ha (service area of two canals from the
upper Maasim diversion structure) from the available Maasim flow, and making up
shortages from the proposed link canal to Maasim river from Bustos system;
b)    meeting the requirement of 1,059 ha (service area of the canal from lower
Maasim diversion structure) from the surplus from (a) above and diverted flow from
Bustos system through the existing link canal; and
c)    meeting the requirement of (a) and (b) above (through the link canals) and
the remaining proposed area (24,000 ha in the wet season and 25,800 ha in the dry
season) from the flows arriving at Bustos dam.



-. 192 -                          ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 4
Should the Angat dam releases for irrigation continue at the past levels, NIA's assessment
shows that there would be enough water to irrigate most of the service area. However,
the analysis does not allow for the obligatory releases downstream of Bustos for the river
channel protection for environmental reasons, and the results are, therefore, tentative.
During the wet season, a large area gets inundated due to higher water level of the
Candappa swamp, which would need very heavy expenditure for protection (not included
in the project). About 7,000 ha of the service area is, therefore, not likely to be under
irrigated or any cultivation in the wet season. The proposed irrigation of 24,500 ha in the
wet season and 28,900 ha in the dry season will be refined further during the detailed
preparation of the improvement proposals.
Camiling (service area 8.580 ha): The NIS gets additional supplies from two small
streams, Bulsa and Cayaling. In the wet season, about 1,400 ha remains water-logged. In
the dry season, water is not sufficient. In both the seasons, therefore, irrigated area is less
than the service area.
Balanac (service area 1,300 ha): The NIS utilises water from two creeks in
addition to Balanac river. Water availability (approximate for creeks) shows that full area
could be irrigated in the wet season. However, due to submergence from Laguna de Bay,
about 100 ha may be too water-logged for crops. During the dry season, only 1,000 ha
could probably be irrigated with the available water.
Baco-Bucayao (service area 6.678 ha): There is sufficient water to irrigate the
entire service area in both seasons.
Pagbahan (service area 1.356 ha): There is sufficient water to irrigate the entire
service area in both seasons.
Jalaur (service area 8.862 ha): The main river has low flow in the dry season. It is
reported that diversion of water upstream of the NIS intake is increasing. Water is short
in the dry season. It is likely that water is being distributed thinly. No increase in dry
season irrigation is, therefore, possible. In the wet season, water is sufficient but about
862 ha remains water-logged. The proposed dry season irrigated area would be refined by
NIA further during the preparation of detailed improvement proposals.
Sibalom-Tigbauan (service area 2,100 ha): The available water is insufficient
during both seasons to irrigate the full service area.
Dipolo (service area 1.465 ha): The NIS utilises the flow in three creeks in
addition to the main river. The NIS actually comprises four independent systems with
diversion structures at each source. The availability of water in the dry season is
insufficient to meet the requirements of the entire service area.
Andanan (service area 5.500 ha): The NIS, with the Andanan river as the source,
is short of water, and transfer of water from the adjacent Wawa river is proposed. The



- 193 -
ANNEX IS
Page 4 of 4
trans-basin canal is also to irrigate 500 ha. Even with transfer of water from Wawa river,
water will be short for the dry season irrigation. The entire 5,500 ha could be irrigated in
the wet season.
M'Lang (service area 3.120 ha): The NIS utilises the flow in the Bulong and Lika
creeks. The available water is short in the dry season, and only about 2,000 ha could be
irrigated.



HATER fEf55355 KEYELOPHEUT FBOJECT(ERDP)
3*118 BALANCE ARALTRIS
Bamn  of Project: TUIAIII HIS                                                             Service Area :3615 HAS.                                                                 .  *IT$   m
Bairnfall Itatim  : iagan   aim?fall Statim                                               Pm  Evap. Data Station :Talictic, Barne, Isabela                                            krainape Area akt Oamits :153 s4. ha.
INM              FE8                               M AR             RAT               3mi              At               PA               UP                                HOW                 KC   '
KewA  !I23 1251 231 23 12 3!  2 3 12 312  S1 I-2  3.1 23I12S.I12 3!.
- --R----                   ... -.....1.. !- xxu xzuzzz                                             goo oo*$iftt.........................-XX=                                    KXUZ U             aoefIfftt---------
NOSTIfE      o     Lad  Woing        $   Lad Prearatim s            Crop Miatnauce   x   O: rairnage    j: H-arvest
EV01. DATA          31 31  41 45 453                       5757163 69  69  69  666 73  5555  55535S358  45455SO4646  46  42  42  46 35  35 35 32 32 SS
LANDOWL/FLOOD 200 000 0000000 0  001830   034 16 5100000  0    I008 832 321 7
CUPF/TARUS          40   41   45.  49   41   39   13   54   35   11    0    0    0    0    0    0   10   28   45   54   62   49   50   55   51   51   51   44   30   15    1                          2   13   23   32   31
OEEPPFERCOLATI1020 20  2220 20 1620  17113  0   00                                                    0 0 410 17 20 22 2020 22  20 20  20  19 13101I8 14 .20 22
CROP WATEBR EG!.  62   61   61   69   69   55   33   71   46   14    0    0    .0    0    0    0   32   68   96   90   89   70   10   77   71   71   71   63   43   22    1 12   49   69  71   66
(ff. RAINFALL    5  24  2  11   I  2  1  1  2  2  2.612   S  923 1917120 2114 1326 30 1812 45 1511 1014204   4
CROP ING&.hIOT. 57  59 63  61685482 6945 13   0  0  0  0  0  0 234517771369 495S6644541  53 510  170235  4917462
OVERALL EFF.   50  50 50 50-50 5050 5050 50   0  000  0   0 4545 45 4545 45  45 45  45 45 45 4550O50 50  5050O505050o
DIERBSINR SECT.  114  III -125  134  136109I  164  131   89   21               0    0'   0    0    0    0   51  100  110  163  153  109  123  141  100   91  117  113    0   14    0                   3 710   99  148  124
WtUlY 11151K)  1.32 1.36 1.32 1.55 1.36 1.51 1."0 1.53 0.94 0.3! 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.60 1.16 1.91 1.83 1.61 1.26 1.43 1.49 1.15 1.05 1.36 1.31 0.00 0.14 0.00 0.04 0.81 1.14 1.12 1.3-
vvvv
01V. EhlT.(HOI)  2.3  2.4  2.5  2.1  2.1  2.2  3.3  2.8  LB8  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.1  2.1  3.5  3.3  3.1  2.2  2.5  2.3  2.0  1.9  2.4  2.3  0.0  0.3  0.0  0.1  1.4  2.0  3.0  25
STREWMLOH          6.2  6.9  5.5  4.4  3.5  2.4  4.8  5.0  3.2  3.4  2.2  2.1  2.2  ii   3.0  4.1  4.2  5.0  4.8  3.1  6.5  5.0  3.9  5.4  3.6  4.1  6.1  9.8 15.9 20.3 15.4 19.9 26.6 22.3 14.2  4.3
*SlMPLIISIDEFICIT  3.9  4.6  3.0  1.7  0.0  0.2  1.5  2.3  1.4  2.8  2.2  2.1  2.2  1.8  3.0. 4.1  3.2  2.19  1.3  0.4  3.3  2.8  1.4  0.5  1.6  2.8  3.1  .7.4 15.9 20.1 15.4 19.8 25.2 20.3 11.3  1.81
*       OSSIBLE IRRIUATIO  FOR THE STREANLE:
ROTE  FIRST CROP AREA   2055  HAS  -  SEtUP CROP ARIA    2006  HAS.                                                                                                                              vvvv   CRITICAL



PHILIPPINES
Water Resources Development Project
Water Availability and Irrigation Areas (hectares) at NIS to be Improved
Service       Possible From          Possible From         Total Irrigation       Average Actual          80% Reliable             Proposed        Remarks
NIS            Area          Main Source             Creeks Etc              Possible             Irrigation I/          Actual Irr 2/           Irrigation
Proposed   WET   DRY   WET   DRY   WET   DRY   WET   DRY   WET   DRY   WET  DRY
Magapit                 10,914                                                                           3,424      4,891       3,058      2,491       7,314   10,914       @3/4
San Pablo Cab.           1,273      1,060         986        250        200       1,310       1,186        600        633         444        493       1,273      1,173          5
Tumauini                 3,650      2,055       2,006      1,000         500      3,055       2,506      1,615       1,830      1,265       1,626      3,050    2,500         5/6
MRIIS II               23,187                                                                           21,589    21,215    21,334    20,672    23,187   23,187               @T
A. Massim              31,485    24,000    28,970          3,170          nil   27,170    28,970    23,256    27,640    22,552    27,291    24,500   28,900                 4/5/7
Camiling                 8,580      5,506         370      3,877      2,962       9,383       3,332      7,123      2,638       6,965      2,400       7,200    3,300           5
Balanac                  1,300      1,035         650        466         350      1,501       1,000        556         558        541        518       1,200      1,000       4/5
B. Bucayao               6,678    10,055        8,523        500        400    10,555         8,923      4,170      4,417       3,896      4,345       6,678    6,6781          3
Pagbahan                 1,356      4,626       2,983        555         300      5,181       3,283        554         516        517        383       1,356      1,356         3       U'
Jalaur                   8,862    10,700        3,660                                                    7,550       5,945      6,877      5,854       8,000     5,854  @4/5/7
S. Tigbauan              2,100      1,155         320        793        387       1,948         707      1,403         867      1,042        507       1,900       700          5
Dipolo                   1,465      1,435         405      1,328        400       2,763         805        743         696        714        682       1,465       800           5
Andanan                  5,500      2,892       1,231      7,185      2,368    10,077         3,599      2,962      2,728       2,709      2,467       5,500    3,600           5
M'Lang                   3,120      2,380       1,088      1,598         966      3,978      2,054       1,987       1,632      1,932       1,603      3,120    2,000           5
Total                 109,470 _                                                                         77,532    76,206    73,846    71,332    95,743   91,962
Il/Representsaverageoftheyears 1988to 1995.
2/ 80%/ reliable actual irrigated area for the years 1988 to 1995.
*3/ Water is sufficient for the area proposed in the two seasons.
4/ In the wet season, low areas would remain waterlogged and no crop in these areas will be possible, inspite of drainage improvement. Hence, full service area can not be irrigated though water is available.  >
51 Sufficient water is not available in the dry season. The proposed irrigated area is, therefore, less than the service area.                                                       Z
However, the dry season available flow from the creeks is an approximation.                                                                                                      tDt1
6/ Sufficient water not available in the wet season.
7/ Proposed irrigation will be further refined during preparation of detailed improvement plans.                                                                                  n. 
@ Irrigation possible from different water sources was not calculated for Magapit as it pumps water from Cagayan, which has ample supply; for MRIIS 11, which is one district of MRIIS and for which  X  L,i
sufficient water availability has been established by NIA, and for lalaur, which would be reviewed further by NIA for incremental irrigated areas in drv season                  tQ



- 196 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice and Fertilizer Price Structures
List of Tables
Table 1: Rice Price Structure
Table 2: Fertilizer Price Structure



- 197 -
Annex 16
Table I
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Price Structure
(Economic values in 1995 prices)
1995                 1997      2000       2005
In US$/ton
Rice 5% broken,fob Bangkok                       320                  294        277       274
-Quality Discount                                 64                   59         55        55
+Ocean,Freight &Insurance                         37                   37         37         37
=CIF,Phil.Port                                   293                  272        259       256
In Pesos/ton:
CIF,Phil.Port                                   7618                 7077       6724      6661
+Port Handling &Other Charges \a                 145                  145        145        145
+Importer's Margin \b                            571                  531        504        500
=Ex-warehouse price                             8334                 7753       7373      7306
+Transport to Trade Center \c                    110                  110        110        110
+Trading Margins \d                              169                  157        150        148
-Wholesale Price                                8613                 8020       7633      7564
-Transport Cost to Mill \e                       610                  610        610        610
=Ex-mill price                                  8003                 7410       7023      6954
-Milling Cost                                    480                  480        480       480
+Value of by-product                             476                  476        476       476
=Pre-mill Value                                 7999                 7406       7019      6950
Palay Equivalent (xO.65)                        5200                 4814       4562      4518
-Transport Cost Farm to Mill                     202                  202        202       202
=Farmgate Price (Economic)                      4998                 4612       4360      4316
Farmgate Price (Financial) \f                   6000                 6000       6000      6000
\a All Values expressed in terms of 1995 prices. U.S$1=P26
\b 7.5% of CIF
\c Financial valuex0.83 for all transportation costs
\d 2% of ex-waregouse price+transport
\e Including shrinkage,losses,sack, loading and unloading.
\f Official NFA support price end- 1995



- 198 -
Annex 16
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer Price Structure
(Economic Values in 1995 prices)
1995                1997       2000      2005
UREA
In US$/ton:
Bagged,fob,lndonesia                  207                  170       153        147
+Ocean,Freight, and Insurance          53                   53        53         53
=CIF,Phil.Port                        260                  223       206        200
In Pesos/ton:
CIF,Phil.Port                        6760                 5798      5356       5200
+Marketing Cost \a                   2983                 2983      2983       2983
=Retail Price                        9743                 8781      8339       8183
+Transport to farm \a                 153                  153       153        153
=Farmgate Price (economic)           9896                 8934      8492       8336
Pesos/kg,nutrient              21.99                19.85      18.87     18.52
Farmgate Price (financial)          11923                10764     10231      10043
Pesos/kg,nutrient              26.50                23.92     22.74      22.32
TSP
In US$/ton:
Bagged,fob,lndonesia                  147                  135       135        124
+Ocean,Freight, and Insurance          54                   54        54         54
=CIF,Phil.Port                        201                  189       189        178
In Pesos/ton:
CIF,Phil.Port                        5226                 4914      4914       4628
+Marketing Cost \a                   2416                 2416      2416       2416
=Retail Price                        7642                 7330      7330       7044
+Transport to farm \a                 153                  153       153        153
=Farmgate Price (economic)           7795                 7483      7483       7197
Pesos/kg,nutrient              16.95                16.27      16.27     15.65
Farmgate Price (financial)           9392                 9016      9016       8671
Pesos/kg,nutrient              20.42                19.60      19.60     18.85
MQE
In US$/ton:
Bagged,fob,lndonesia                  119                  111       112        106
+Ocean,Freight, and Insurance          54                   54        54         54
=CIF,Phil.Port                        173                  165       166        160
In Pesos/ton:
CIF,Phil.Port                        4498                 4290      4316       4160
+Marketing Cost \a                   2575                 2575      2575       2575
=Retail Price                        7073                 6865      6891       6735
+Transport to fann \a                 153                  153       153        153
=Farmgate Price (economic)           7226                 7018      7044       6888
Pesos/kg,nutrient              12.04                11.70      11.74     11.48
Farmgate Price (financial)           8706                 8455      8487       8299
Pesos/kg,nutrient              14.51                14.09      14.14     13.83
\a Based on average of financial values for 14 systemsxO.83.



- 199 -
Annex 17
Page I of 4
PHIUIPPINL
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP AND FARM BUDGETS
Table 1: Physical Inputs and Unit Prices -- Overall Project
Table 2: Financial Crop Budgets -- Overall Project
Table 3: Fann Budgets -- Overall Project



- 200 -
Annex 17
Table I
PHILIrPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHYSICAL INPUTS &UNIT PRICES
OVERALL PROJECT
Present, Future (With and Without) Project
Financial Values in 1995 Prices
Irrigated   Irrigated     Rainfed             Unit Price
WS          DS                       Present       Future
Cultivation
-Mechanical (/O)                  70          70            65      Pl,546/ha.    P1,546/ha.
-Animal (%)                        30          30            35      P1,541/ha    P1,541/ha
Seeds
-Transplant(kg/ha)                100         100           100      P8.0/kg      P8.0/kg
Fertilizer
(nutrient in kg/ha.)
-N                                 68          77            53      P25.7/kg     P26/kg
-P205                              24          27            17      P20.8/kg     P22.3/kg
-K(20                              17           19           12      P16.1/kg     P16.1/kg
Agro-chemicals (P/ha)            1458        1322           820      Lump sum     Lump sum
Threshing (%of yield)               7           7             7
Labor (Total MD)                   77          77           61       P70/MD       P70/MD



- 201 -
Annex 17
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Crop Budgets
OVERALL PROJECT
Present, Future Without, and Future With Project
Financial Values in 1995 Prices
Present                                 Future
Irrigated  Irrigated  Rainfed  Irrigated  Irrigated  Rainfed
WS       DS                    WS       DS
(Pesos/ha)
Yield (t/ha)              4.23      4.55     2.72        4.23      4.55      2.72
Price (P/ton)            6000      6000      6000        6000     6000      6000
Gross Prod.Value(P)     25380    27300    16320         25380    27300    16320
Production Costs:
Cultivation              2276      2500      1533        2276     2500      1533
Seeds                      800      800       800         800      800       800
Fertilizers               1748     1979      1362        1768     2002      1378
Agro-chemicals            1458     1322       820        1458      1322      820
Threshing                 1781     1928      1142        1781      1928     1142
Other Costs                290      290       241         294      294       244
Subtotal                 8353      8819      5898        8377     8846      5917
Interest \a                418      441       295         419      442       296
Water Charge \b            600      900                   600      900
Total \c                 9371    10160       6193        9396    10188      6213
Net Prod.Value (P) \d    16009    17140    10127        15984    17112    10107
\a 50% of production costs at 10% for 6 months.
\b 2 cavans/ha for WS and 3 cavans/ha for DS.
\c Excluding hired labor and land tax (See Farm Budgets in Table 3)
\d Before deduction of hired labor and land tax (See Farm Budgets in Table 3)



- 202 -
PHOLEIPINES                                         Annex 17
Table 3
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGETS
OVERALL PROJECT
At 1995 Prices
Present                Future Without           Future With
I Ha.  2Has. 3 Has.    I Ha.  2Has. 3 Has.    I Ha.  2Has. 3 Has.
Cropped Area
-Irrigated    WS          0.72    1.44   2.16      0.72   1.44   2.16       0.95   1.9    2.85
DS          0.38    0.76   1.14      0.38   0.76   1.14       0.74   1.48   2.22
-Rainfed                  0.28    0.56   0.84      0.28   0.56   0.84       0.05   0.1    0.15
Yield
-Irrigated    WS          4.23    4.23   4.23      4.23   4.23   4.23       4.23   4.23   4.23
DS          4.55    4.55   4.55      4.55   4.55   4.55       4.55   4.55   4.55
- Ra.nfed                 2.72    2.72   2.72      2.72   2.72   2.72       2.72   2.72   2.72
Productiic
-Irrigated   WS           3.05    6.09   9.14      3.05   6.09   9.14      4.02   8.04   12.06
DS          1.73    3.46   5.19      1.73   3.46   5.19       3.37   6.73   10.10
- Rinfed                  0.76    1.52   2.28      0.76   1.52   2.28       0.14   0.27   0.41
Total                5.54    11.07  16.61     5.54   11.07  16.61     7.52   15.04  22.56
Price                        6000    6000   6000       6000   6000   6000      6000   6000   6000
Gross Value of
Productio (GVP)           33217   66434  99652    33217  66434  99652    45129  90258  135387
Productin Cost
-Irrigated    WS          8194    16388  24581    8358   16716  25075    10811  21622  32433
DS          4774    9548   14322    4869   9738   14608    9297   18593  27890
-Rainfed                  1833    3666   5499      1870   3740   5611      327    655    982
Total                14801   29601  44402    15097  30194  45294    20435  40870  61305
Net Value of
Prodctirc(NVP)            18416   36833  55250    18120  36240  54358    24694  49388  74082
Less: Water Charge (a)       774      1548   2322      774    1548   2322      1236   2472   3708
Intre tExpme (b)        740      1480   2220      755    1510   2264      1022   2044   3065
HiredLabor(c)           1069    2137   3206       1069   2137   3206      1398   2797   4195
Lind Tax (d)            136     272    408        136    272    408       148    295    443
Netl come: Owner Operator   15697   31396  47094    15386  30773  46158    20890  41780  62671
Loes: Lease (e)              7535    15098  22634    7535   15098  22634    10299  20570  30856
NetlInom:Lessee              8162    16298  24460    7851   15675  23524    10591  21210  31815
Net Icome: ShareTaunt(f)     7849    15698  23547    7693   15387  23079    10445  20890  31336
(a) 2 oavmsAa for WS; and 3 cavnadis for DS.
(b) 50% of production cost at 10% for six minths.
(o) 15.35 id 65 percent forthe 1,2,aid 3 haLfarms, respectively.
(d) P1501ha for irrigated; mad Pl00)ha for rainfed.
(e) 25% of OVP (less: seedl and threshing).
(1) 50% ofnet income of oer-operator.



- 203 -
Annex 18
Page I of 4
PHILI1PPINES,
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
RENT AND COST RECOVERY INDICES
Table 1: Rent and Cost Recovery Indices -- Owner-Operator
Table 2: Rent and Cost Recovery Indices -- Lessee
Table 3: Rent and Cost Recovery Indices -- Share Tenant



- 204 -
Annex 18
Table I
PHUIPPIE
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RENT AND COST RECOVERY INDICES
OWNER-OPERAITOR
I-Ha       2-Ha        3-Ha   Iotal
Fanm       Farm        Farm    Project
(Mil P)
1. Gross value of palay production (b)            12,120     24,240       36,360
2. Cash production costs (b)                       4,528      11,390      16,174
3. Net cash income (1-2)                           7,592      12.850      20-186
4. Depreciation (c)                                  380         643       1,009
5. Imputed value of family labor (d)                1,982      2,953       3,822
6. Imputed value of management services (e)          759       1,285       2,019
7. Imputed return on capital (f)                     226         570         809
8. Allowance for risk/uncertainty (g)               1,139      1,928       3,028
9. Subtotal (4+5+6+7+8)                            4,486       7,377      10,687
10. Rent/surplus (3-9)                              3.106      5,473       9.499      1,523.7
11. Water charges (h)                                 613      1,226        1,839      372.3
12. Land Tax (i)                                       31         62          93         18.9
13. Indirect charges (j)                              343        680        1,022       173.0
14. Total charges (11+12+13)                         2E        1,968       2  954         9
15. Rent recovery index [14/(10+13)]               28.62%     31.99%      28.08%      33.25%
16. Public sector outlays (capital & O&M) (k)                                         1,209.1
17. Cost recovery index (14/16)                                                       46.66%
18. Farmer's income per capita-
at full development (P)                           3,796      6,425      10,093
19. Estimated CCL at full development (P)                                             14,625
20. Estimated GNP/cap at full development                                             29,250
Year 10 (P)
(a) Items 1-14 are incremental, discounted values at I 00/ at constant 1995 prices.
(b) From Farm Budgets Annex 17, Table 3.
(c) 5% of net cash income from production.
(d) Family labor at P50 per day.
(e) 100/o of net cash income from rice production.
(f) Assumes 50% of production costs are met from farmer's own resources; allows 10% return on capital.
(g) 15% of net cash income from rice production.
(h) 2 cavans/ha for WS and 3 cavans/ha for WS.
(i) P1 50/ha for irrigated; P100/ha for rainfed.
() Indirect taxes on farm inputs of P160/ton of incremental production.
(k) Total project cost (excluding water resources and watershed management
components, and Masiway dam strengthening) over 30 years; discounted at 10%.



- 205 -
Annex 18
Table 2
WATER RESOURCES DEVIELOPMENT PROJECT
RENT AND COST RECOVERY INDICES
LESSEE
ILHa       2IHa       3 Ha        Total
Farm       Farm       Farm      Prjec
(Mil P)
1. Gross value of palay production (b)                     12,120     24,240     36,360
2. Cash production costs (b)                                7,229     14,336     21,535
3. Net cash income (1-2)                                    4,891      9,904      14,825
4. Depreciation (c)                                           245        495        741
5. Imputed value of family labor (d)                        1,982      2,953       3,822
6. Imputed value of management services (e)                  489         990       1,483
7. Imputed return on capital (f)                             361         717       1,077
8. Allowance for risk/uncertainty (g)                        734       1,486      2,224
9. Subtotal (4+5+6+7+8)                                     3,811      6,641       9,346
10. Rent/surplus (3-9)                                      1,080      3,263       5,479    1,523.7
11. Water charges (h)                                         613       1,226      1,839      372.3
12. Land Tax (i)                                               31          62         93        18.9
13. Indirect charges U)                                       343        680       1,022      173.0
14. Total charges (11+12+13)                                  987       1,968      2,954        564
15. Rent recovery index [14/(10+13)]                       69.37%     49.91%      45.44%    33.25%
16. Public sector outlays (capital & O&M) (k)                                               1,209.1
17. Cost recovery index (14/16)                                                              46.66%
18. Farmer's income per capita-
at full development (P)                                   2,446      4,952       7,413
19. Estimated CCL at full development (P)                                                    14,625
20. Estimated GNP/cap at full development                                                    29,250
Year 10 (P)
(a) Items 1-14 are incremental, discounted values at 10% at constant 1995 prices.
(b) From Farm Budgets Annex 17, Table 3.
(c) 5% of net cash income from production.
(d) Family labor at P50 per day.
(e) 10% of net cash income from rice production.
(f) Assumes 50% of production costs are met from farmer's own resources; allows 100/o return on capital.
(g) 15% of net cash income from rice production.
(h) 2 cavans/ha for WS and 3 cavans/ha for WS.
(i) P 1 50/ha for irrigated; P I 00/ha for rainfed.
() Indirect taxes on farm inputs of PI 60/ton of incremental production.
(k) Total project cost (excluding water resources and watershed management components,
and Masiway dam strengthening) over 30 years; discounted at 10%.



- 206 -
Annex 18
Table 3
PMLIPPINES
WATER RESOUCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RENT AND COST RECOVERY INDICES
SHARE-TENANT
La         2  lHa     3LHa          Ta
Farm        Farm       Farm      Project
IMil P)
1. Gross value of palay production (b)                    12,120     24,240      36,360
2. Cash production costs (b)                               7,292      14,528     21,806
3. Net cash income (1-2)                                   4,828       9,712      14,554
4. Depreciation (c)                                          241         486        728
5. Imputed value of family labor (d)                       1,982       2,953       3,822
6. Imputed value of management services (e)                  483         971       1,455
7. Imputed return on capital (f)                             365         726       1,090
8. Allowance for risk/uncertainty (g)                        724       1,457       2,183
9. Subtotal (4+5+6+7+8)                                    3,795       6,593       9,279
10. Rent/surplus (3-9)                                      1,033      3,119       5,275      1,523.7
11. Water charges (h)                                        613       1,226       1,839       372.3
12. Land Tax (i)                                              31          62          93         18.9
13. Indirect charges (j)                                     343         680       1,022        173.0
14. Total charges (11+12+13)                                 987       1,968       2,954         564
15. Rent recovery index [14/(10+13)]                      71.75%      51.80%      46.91%      33.25%
16. Public sector outlays (capital & O&M) (k)                                                 1,209.1
17. Cost recovery index (14/16)                                                               46.66%
18. Farmer's income per capita-
at full development (P)                                   1,809      3,237       4,851
19. Estimated CCL at full development (P)
20. Estimated GNP/cap at full development                                                      14,625
Year 10 (P)                                                                                 29,250
(a) Items 1-14 are incremental, discounted values at 10% at constant 1995 prices.
(b) From Farm Budgets Annex 17, Table 3.
(c) 5% of net cash income from production.
(d) Family labor at P50 per day.
(e) 10% of net cash income from rice production.
(f) Assumes 50% of production costs are met from farmer's own resources; allows 10% return on capital.
(g) 15% of net cash income from rice production.
(h) 2 cavans/ha for WS and 3 cavans/ha for WS.
(i) Pi 50/ha for irrigated; P100/ha for rainfed.
() Indirect taxes on farm inputs of P160/ton of incremental production.
(k) Total project cost (excluding water resources and watershed management components, and
Masiway dam strengthening) over 30 years; discounted at 10%.



- 207 -
Annex 19
Page 1 of 15
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    This Annex explains the underlying assumptions and the methodology used in the
derivation of economic costs and benefits of the project, and the results of the economic analysis.
The economic rate of return of the project is calculated for the system improvement and repair
component only, since the benefits of other compnents cannot be quantified with any precision.
An analysis of the technical assumptions (e.g., water use efficiency) used in computing project
benefits with and without the project is also presented.
General
2.    The Philippines has become an increasingly open economy in recent years with trade,
remittances, and private capital inflows each expanding rapidly, the last stimulated by the capital
account liberalization of 1992. Financial prices are fairly close to economic prices. This is true
for the exchange rate, interest rate and tradable commodities in general, reflecting minimal
overall distortion in the economy. Based on the proportion of imports and exports in total trade
and a weighted average of import taxes and export taxes, the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
for the Philippines was estimated at 0.83. With the macroeconomic and structural reform agenda
currently underway, the long-term average nominal protection is expected to decrease. It is
assumed, however, that some degree of distortion vis-a-vis market prices in the economy is likely
to continue, and hence a SCF of 0.83 has been used to value non-tradable inputs and outputs.
Agrculture
3.    Agriculture accounts for about one-fourth (22%) of the GDP and almost half (45%) of the
labor force. The slowdown in the growth of the sector after the 1 970s has been attributed to: an
overall downward trend in international commodity prices affecting the country's traditional
export crops, continuous deterioration in the inter-sectoral terms of trade, macroeconomic
constraints, and a series of natural calamities. The sector's problems have been exacerbated by
the revised Local Government Code (1992) which devolved inter alia responsibility for
communal irrigation, tertiary roads, extension, and natural resource management to the local
governement units (LGUs). Due to the inadequate financing and implementation capacity of the
LGUs, the delivery and quality of these services have been seriously affected. However, the
planned level of public agricultural expenditures under the Medium Term Philippine
Development Plan (1993-1998) represents a significant increase over previous years.'
World Bank, Philippines: Public Expenditure Management for Sustained and Equitable Growth, September
1995.



- 208 -
Annex 19
Page 2 of 15
4.    The recent liberalization of the trade regime in the context of the government's structural
adjustment program has seen a modest fall in the effective rate of protection in the agriculture
sector from 5% in 1991 to 3% in 1995. However, exportables continue to be taxed at 5% and the
effective protection rates for importables declined from 48% to 38%2. As a result of the recent
agreement to liberalize trade through the World Trade Organization (WTO), market access will
be further expanded through the dismantling of non-trade barriers and reduction of existing
tariffs. As requested by the government, rice has been exempted from the WTO regulations over
the next ten years, although the minimum access requirement has been imposed.
Project C
5.    Investment costs. The project would provide for the improvement of 14 existing national
irrigation systems (NIS) serving about 110,000 ha., and repairs to eight diversion structures (in
NIS other than the 14 selected for improvement) and strengthening of Masiway dam. Investment
costs would include construction of silt excluders, new regulating and control structures,
resectioning of the canals, repairing damaged structures etc.
6.    Operation and Maintenance Costs. These represent the average (1991-94) O&M costs for
each system and are directly associated with the improvement of the NIS. The O&M activities
include canal maintenance, maintenance of service roads, pumping costs (for Magapit PIS), and
maintenance of control gates and structures. O&M costs are phased in, based on the percent of
incremental area generated in each system after project implementation.
7.    It has been agreed with NIA that the improved laterals of the NIS would be handed over
to the IA for water distribution and maintenance of the lateral and sub-laterals, the responsibility
of NIA being only to supply the required amount of water at the head of the lateral. As under the
IOSP II, the lAs will share the cost of the improvement works.
8.    Paddy is the main crop sown in the service area of all the NIS. Paddy production costs
include cash costs, non-cash costs, and imputed costs. Cash costs include seeds/planting
materials, fertilizer, agrochemicals, hired labor, land tax, interest on crop loans, and (payable in
kind) include seeds/planting materials (non-cash portion), irrigation transportation costs incurred
during the purchase of inputs for the farm. Non-cash costs service fee, lease rental,landlord
share, harvester/thresher share, and hired labor (non-cash portion). Imputed costs include unpaid
family labor and exchange labor (valued at prevailing market wage rates), depreciation, interest
on capital investment, and owned land (rental value). A recent country-wide study3 indicates that
non-cash costs account for 34% of total costs, of which shares of the harvester and thresher form
the bulk (42%). Irrigation service fee (ISF) constitutes only 1 percent of the non-cash costs.
Hired labor accounts for a significant portion of cash costs (32%) and unpaid family and operator
2   World Bank, Philippines: Recent Macroeconomic Developments and Reform Efforts, June 1994.
3   International Irrigation Management Institute,Performance and Financial Viability of Irrigated Agriculture in the
Philippines, C.M Wijayaratna and Ma. Delia M. Valdez, September 1995.



- 209 -
Annex 19
Page 3 of 15
labor constitute 31%  of imputed costs. These  percentages are approximately the same on
average in the project service areas.
9.    ISF Rates. These are expressed in cavans4 of paddy and farmers may pay either in kind
or in the equivalent cash amount based on the official support price (P6.0/kg). ISF rates vary
depending on season and type of scheme, ranging from 2 cavans/ha in the wet season for a
diversion system (Balanac) to 7.5 cavans/ha in the wet and dry season for a pump system
(Magapit).
10.   Labo.  Wages are largely determined by market forces with seasonal and regional
variations. The slow pace of agricultural growth in the 1990s has seen the growth of rural labor
supply exceeding demand, thereby increasing pressures for out-migration. Sustainable
development is also threatened as population pressures on upland and coastal areas have
increased, reflecting the lack of employment opportunities in traditional farm  lands5. The
economic cost of unskilled labor was estimated at 60 percent of the market wage which varies in
each of the 14 NIS. This rate is assumed to reflect the marginal productivity of labor in its
alternative use without the project.
11.   The average wage rate for the 18 NIS is P70/day. The average number of man-days for
paddy cultivation is 61, 77, and 77 for rainfed, irrigated (wet season), and irrigated (dry season),
respectively. Since the project is not so large as to greatly alter the demand for unskilled labor
relative to its supply, the wage rate for skilled and unskilled labor in rural areas is not expected to
change as a result of the proposed project.
12.   Crop yields were assumed to be similar with and without the project. All benefits and
costs were adjusted to reflect prevailing relative economic scarcities of factors of production in
the Philippines according to the following assumptions:
(a)    Project investment costs have been converted to economic costs by removing
transfer payments (i.e. taxes and subsidies) and border priced using the SCF of
0.83. The O&M cost (financial) was converted to economic costs using a specific
conversion factor of 0.78.
(b)   Prices (present and projected) for traded goods (rice and fertilizers) at im6port
parity, are based on the most recent World Bank   price projections  of
October/November 1995 with adjustments for quality, freight, insurance,
handling, local transport and marketing margins, and processing costs.
I cavan = 50 kgs
5   World Bank, Economic Developments and Policy Challenges, November 1995.
6   World Bank, Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries, November 1995.



- 210 -
Annex 19
Page 4 of 15
(c)   The opportunity cost of unskilled labor was estimated at 60% of the prevailing
market wage which varies among the 14 NIS.
(d)   Imported components were valued at the foreign exchange rate of P26 to US$1.
(e)   Prices of all non-traded goods and services were adjusted to border prices by
using the SCF of 0.83.
(f)   The project evaluation period is 30 years.
All costs and benefits are in constant 1995 prices.
project Benefits
13.   The proposed project would contribute to the government goals of poverty alleviation and
improved food security. With a high rural poverty incidence (estimated at over 50% in 1995), the
bulk of the beneficiaries under the project are expected to be poor farmers. The main benefit
would be improved operation and maintenance of the country's irrigation infrastructure which
would in turn increase paddy production, farm  incomes, and employment. The annual
incremental rice production due to the project of about 100,000 tons (65% recovery from paddy)
will result in annual foreign exchange savings of about US$30 million in current prices by the
year 2003.
14.   The quantified economic benefits of the project are the value of the increased agricultural
production net of the increased production costs and project development and O&M costs. The
increased production will result from an increase in the presently irrigated area from 145,000 ha
to 188,000 ha, and an increase in average cropping intensity from 133% to 171% for 12 of the 14
NIS.While yield increases are likely to be higher with improved irrigation under the project, no
such increases have been assumed and the project incremental benefits have been estimated
conservatively on the basis of increased cropping intensities and restoration of irrigated area
only.
15.   For the systems under the major repairs sub-component, the benefits were calculated as
savings in future repairs or savings in O&M, or prevention of loss of irrigated areas and/or
expansion in irrigated area, or a combination of these. The key assumption here is that without
any intervention, repairs would be delayed by five years. A shorter delay would substantially
increase the ERRs.
16.   The non-quantified benefits of the project include: (i) additional income generation
through on-farm and off-farm activities; (ii) better and timely farm operations due to improved
drainage; (iii) improved public health because of control of schistosomiasis; and (iv)
environmental benefits from reduction of siltation and promotion of sustainable farming
practices.



- 211 -
Annex 19
Page 5 of 15
Technical Assumptions in Benefit Computation
Water Availability
17.   Of the 14 schemes ( service area 1 10,000 ha), two draw water from the reservoirs along
with use of the adjacent smaller rivers, and 12 are of the run-of -the river type. Of the latter, two,
Magapit and Baco-Bucayao (17,592 ha), have significantly higher supplies in the parent rivers
than the irrigation requirements in both the wet and dry seasons; eight (35,206 ha) have ample
supplies in the wet season, but are short in the dry; and only two, Andanan and Tumauini (9,150
ha) have shortage in both the seasons, but Andanan would receive additional water under the
project from an adjacent stream.
Cropping Intensity With and Without the Project
18.   The area under irrigated crops is anticipated to increase in both the wet and dry seasons.
The area figures are firm in some cases and tentative in others. Based on current figures, in the
wet season, the increase would be 21,900 ha (52 % of the incremental area), from the following
sources:
(a)   relief of flooding in the relatively lower areas where flooding currently inhibits
cropping or damages occur if the farmers plant the crops;
(b)   repairs to the damages to the irrigation system and remodelling of the canals to
deliver water to those areas whch are currently do not get water due to system
deficiencies; and
(c)   diverting water from the drains within the service area or in close vicinity to feed
those portions of the service area where the irrigation system can not deliver water
at all or shortages occur.
19.  In the wet season, the additional area generated would not be limited by the availability of
water or the variation of water use efficiency, except in Tumauini (Andanan would cease to have
a problem after the improvement under the project). The canals have enough capacity to deliver
water during the wet season even at a lower water use efficiency.
20.   In the dry season, the increase would be 20,600 ha (48 % of the incremental area), from
the following sources:
(a)   availability of more area for the dry season crops in the schemes having ample
supplies of water, due to better drainage;
(b)   improvement of system to deliver water to the areas which are currently not
getting water; and
(c)   diversion of water from the drains.



- 212 -
Annex 19
Page 6 of 15
Only in the dry season does water use efficiency play the role of defining what areas can be
irrigated and that also only for the systems which are short of water in the parent streams.
Water Use Efficiency
21.   Unfortunately sufficient data is not available for calculating the water use efficiency in
different years (wet and dry). The irrigated area is recorded as any area which receives water
(irrespective of the number of times received), and benefitted area is defined as that producing
more than 2 tons/ha (less than the yield of rainfed paddy). Invariably, the volume of water
supplied to the laterals or turnouts is not recorded or is not available to calculate the water use
efficiency by sections. Even for the NIS as a whole, data for the supplies to the intake of the
system is not forthcoming. In a few systems (notably Andanan), water is distributed thinly with
the concurrence of the farmers. The water use efficiency for such a system, if calculated on the
data, would be more than 100 %. The question during project preparation, therefore, arose as to
what water use efficiency has a reasonable probability of achievment. The target of 45 % overall
water use efficiency in the wet season and 50 % in the dry season was considered reasonable (the
same targets were used for the reservoir systems, although the Irrigation System Improvement
Plan to be prepared by NIA suggests examining the possibility of achieving 50% efficiency in
the wet season and 55% in the dry season), due to the following reasons:
(a)   All the systems to be improved have existing arrangements for diverting water
from the drains, which receive the surplus water from the irrigated areas, both
from direct runoff as well as from seepage. The percentages vary. More such
diversion would be provided under the project. Even if the area benefitting from
return flow is of the order of 10 %, the water use efficiency would increase by
5%.
(b)   Evapotranspiration needs of the paddy have been conservatively taken as 1 10 %
of pan evaporation although IRRI recommends 100 %.
(c)   Deep percolation losses are taken at a uniform rate of 2 mm/day for the entire
area, although most of the soils are heavy and are under paddy cultivation for a
long time.
(d)   Possible incremental irrigated areas in the dry season were determined from the
water availability in each of the 10-day period. However, if a shortage of 20 % is
allowed in the critical 1 0-day period, the same incremental area calculated at 50 %
efficiency could be irrigated with a lower efficiency of water use.
Economic Analysis
22.   The project components dealing with the institutional strengthening of the National Water
Resources Board, watershed management, and environmental improvement, have not been
included in the computation of economic rates of return because their benefits are extremely
difficult to quantify.



- 213 -
Annex 19
Page 7 of 15
23.   Based on the technical assumptions presented in paras.18-21, the economic analysis was
carried out on 12 of the 14 NIS under the systems improvement component and the 8 systems
under the repair component which together account for 56% of total project cost. Of the 14 NIS
selected for systems improvement, work on six of the systems is scheduled to begin in the first
year of project implementation (1997), with the others following suit in 1998. Of the 8 structures
selected for repair, five are scheduled to begin in 1997, 2 in 1998, and I in 1999.
24.   An economic rate of return was calculated for each of the 12 NIS under the systems
improvement. The overall ERR is about 26%, ranging from 13% to 67%. Separate ERRs were
also calculated for each of the 8 systems under the repair sub-component. Here, the overall ERR
is about 29% ranging from 16% to 58%. The ERRs for the individual NIS and the Net Present
Values (NPVs) calculated at a discount rate of 10% are provided in Tablel. Table 2 presents the
ERRs for the repair sub-component. The combined systems improvement and repair ERR is
about 27%. The overall benefit and cost streams are shown in Table 3.
25.   A project life of 30 years was assumed in calculating the economic rate of return.
Agricultural development period assumed for all the NIS to attain full development would range
from 3 to 5 years. Physical contingencies and engineering, supervision, and administration
expenses estimated at 10% and 7% of direct investment costs were included in the analysis.



- 214 -
Annex 19
Page 8 of 15
Table 1 Summary of ERRs and NPVs
Systems Improvement Component
Name of System              Service Area     ERR    NPV (@10%)
(ha.)         (%)    (US$ million)
1. Magapit PIS              10,914          28.6         15.68
2. San-Pablo Cabagan IS      1,273          22.0          1.92
3. Tumauini IS               3,650          40.1          4.37
4. MRIIS II                 23,187          19.1          4.66
5. Camiling RIS              8,580          39.5          2.13
6. Balanac RIS               1,300          28.1          1.78
7. Baco-Bucayao RIS          6,678          67.0         11.41
8. Pagbahan RIS              1,356          40.5          3.16
9. Sibalom-Tigbauan RIS      2,100          19.2          0.80
10. Dipolo RIS               1,465          18.3          0.85
11. Andanan RIS              5,500          13.2          1.60
12.M'lang RIS                3,120          20.3          1.59
OVERALL ERR = 26.52%; NPV = US$ 49.94 million



- 215 -
Annex 19
Page 9 of 15
Table 2 Summary of ERRs
Major Repairs Component
Name of Structure                  ERR    NPV (@10%)
System/(Region)                    (%/O)    (US$ million)
1. Lower Chico Intake              24.9        1.28
Lower Chico RIS (R2)
2. Appayao Diversion Dam           42.9        0.16
Appayao-Abulog RIS (R2)
3. Sta.Cruz Diversion Dam          57.6         1.49
Sta.Cruz-Mabacan RIS (R4)
4. Sibalom Intake                  20.0        0.09
Sibalom-San Jose RIS (R6)
5. Panakuyan Diversion Dam         24.6         0.29
Aklan-Panakuyan RIS (R6)
6. Gibong Diversion Dam            55.2        0.21
Gibong RIS (RIO)
7. Taguibo Diversion Dam           49.0        0.31
Cabadbaran-Taguibo RIS (RIO)
8. Tago Diversion DamTago RIS      16.4         1.94
(Rll)                                    I
OVERALL ERR = 29.36%; NPV = US$4.88 million)



- 216 -
Annex 19
Page IO of 15
Table 3 Project Economic Benefits and Costs (million pesos)
(Systems Improvement & Repair Component)
Year     Capital   O&M     Irrigation  Incremental
Costs   Costs    Benefits    Benefits
1997     267.38       0           0     -267.38
1998     344.07       0       11.55     -332.52
1999     279.24    6.54      162.69     -123.09
2000     176.00   13.67      248.42       58.75
2001      107.75   21.05     327.64      198.84
2002          0   26.71      402.60      375.89
2003          0   31.73      440.93      409.20
2004          0   31.73      401.78      370.05
2005          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2006          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2007          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2008          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2009          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2010          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2011          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2012          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2013          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2014          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2015          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2016          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2017          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2018          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2019          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2020          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2021          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2022          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2023          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2024          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2025          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
2026          0   31.73      343.22      311.49
Overall ERR =26.87%; NPV = US$54.72 million



- 217 -
Annex 19
Page 11 of 15
Sensitivity and Risks
26.   Sensitivity analysis was conducted to examine the viability of the project under adverse
conditions. The analysis was carried out separately for the systems improvement sub-component
also. The results of the sensitivity analyses are presented in Table 4. Table 5 present results for
the sensitivity analysis carried out for the combined systems improvement and major repair
components. The results indicate that the ERR is fairly robust for the adverse scenarios
presented. In Table 4, the ERR drops to its lowest (16.5%) for the case of the project benefits
being delayed by 3 years. For the case of a reduction in the incremental irrigated area in the dry
season by 50%, the ERR is still high at 19.6%.
27.   Switching values (SVs) were computed to determine the percentage changes in key
variables required to reduce the project's NPV to zero or the ERR to the opportunity cost of
capital. Two rates of opportunity cost of capital were used (15% and 10%) to calculate switching
values. The results of the tests are summarized in Table 6. The SVs are high in general. Irrigated
cropping intensity is the only variable that is relatively most sensitive. The importance of this
variable is underscored by the fact that the main institutional risk is that of non-cooperation by
the lAs resulting in a reduction in irrigated area in the dry season, which depends largely on
improved water use efficiency unlike the wet seaason where the incremental irrigated area would
increase largely due to drainage improvements.(paras. 18-21).
28.   The switching values required to produce an ERR of 15% require future with-project
yields of 2.54 t/ha and 2.3 t/ha in the wet and dry season, respectively. This would be below
present average rainfed yields of 2.72 t/ha. Since no yield improvements were assumed in
calculating the benefits with the project, this scenario is highly improbable.
29.   The SVs for incremental benefits delay, a very real risk given the potential for delays in
project implementation is 3 years at an ERR of 15% and 7 years at an ERR of 10%. The SV at
15% is relatively low, indicative of a fairly critical variable.
30.   The lowest commodity price forecast within the probability distribution at 70%
confidence interval for rice in the year 2000 (in constant 1995 prices) is US$181/ton. The SV at
10% ERR is $184 which implies a 34% fall in rice prices by the time the project attains full
development - a scenario, while possible, is quite unlikely.



- 218 -
Annex 19
Page 12 of 15
Table 4 Sensitivity Analysis Results
Systems Improvement Component
Scenario                                  ERR (%)
Base Case                                   26.5
Capital Cost:
Up 10%                                      24.4
Up 15%                                      23.5
Up 20%                                      22.6
Incremental Project Benefits:
Down 10%                                    24.0
Down 15%                                    22.7
Down 20%                                    21.3
Delayed 1 year                              21.9
Delayed 2 years                             18.8
Delayed 3 years                             16.5
Combination of:
Capital costs up 10% and
Incremental Project Benefits
delayed by I year                           19.7
Combination of:
Capital costs up 10% and
Incremental Project Benefits
delayed by 2 years                          17.0
Shadow Exchange Rate                        19.1
Official Exchange Rate (SCF=1.0)
Incremental area in dry season reduced by 50%    19.6



- 219 -
Annex 19
Page 13 of 15
Table 5 Sensitivity Analysis Results
Combined Systems Improvement and Repair Component
Scenario                      ERR (%)
Base Case                        26.9
Capital Cost:
Up 10%                           24.5
Up 15%                           23.5
Up 20%                           22.5
Incremental Project Benefits:
Down 10%                         24.1
Down 15%                         22.7
Down2O%                          21.2
Delayed 1 year                   18.5
Delayed 2 years                  16.2
Delayed 3 years                  14.4
Combination of:
Capital costs up 10% and
Incremental Project Benefits
delayed by 1 year                17.2



- 220 -
Annex 19
Page 14 of 15
Table 6 Switching Values
(At Import Parity)
Variables                         Base Case           At ERR of
15%         10%
Absolute Values
Irrigated Cropping Intensity7(%)     165          157          154
Yield (t/ha)
-Irrigated (WS)                     4.23         2.54         2.10
-Irrigated (DS)              4.55         2.30          1.73
World Rice Price
(US$/ton CIF)                        277         204           184
Incremental Benefits Delay             0            3            7
Percent % Changes from Base Case
Irrigated Cropping Intensity           -           -8         -11
Yield (t/ha)
-Irrigated (WS                   -         -40          -50
-Irrigated (DS)                  -         -49          -62
World Rice Price                       -          -26         -34
Incremental Project Benefits           -          -53         -70
Production Cost Before Labor           -        +226         +264
Labor Cost                             -        +232         +265
Capital Cost                           -        +184         +265
Note: Overall for 12 NIS under systems improvement.
(Actual WS Irrigated Area+Actual DS Irnigated Area)/Svce.Area WS - Wet Season; DS - Dry Season



- 221 -
Annex 19
Page 15 of 15
3 1.   Based on the discussion of the technical assumptions in paras. 18-21. and the results of
the sensitivity analyses, it is clear that in summary, the calculation of incremental irrigated areas,
and, therefore, the economic rate of return, is not critically dependent on water use efficiency
targets: water availability is not a significant issue in the wet season and for two systems
(Magapit and Baco-Bucayao) in the dry season. Further, for the reservoir-based systems (Magat
District II and Angat), the 50% water use efficiency target in the dry season should be considered
quite reasonable. The reservoir-based systems. Magapit and Baco-Bucayao would account for
about 72% of the incremental irrigated area in the dry season (14,880 ha out of a total
incremental irrigated area of 20,600 ha in the dry season for the whole project). A reduction in
the water use efficiency targets would, therefore, not have a large impact on the ERR. On the
other hand, since the improved systems are to be handed over to the water users. and an essential
objective of the project is to encourage the water users to improve the management of the
systems, it was considered advisable to retain the targets of 45% in the wet season and 50% in
the dry.



- 222 -
Annex 20
PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    Project Preparation Reports and Related Documents
I.    Project Feasibility Study (in four volumes), prepared by NIA, December
1995
Volume 1: Main Report
Volume 2: Annexes
Volume 3: Environmental Impact Statement
Volume 4: Economic Analyses
2.    Irrigation System Improvement Plan for Andanan River Irrigation System
(RIS)
3.    Irrigation System Improvement Plan for Baco-Bucayao RIS
4.    Irrigation System Improvement Plan for Balanac RIS
5.    Irrigation System Improvement Plan for District II of Magat River
Integrated Irrigation System
6,    Irrigation System Improvement Plan for San-Pablo Cabagan Irrigation
System
B.    Working Papers
1.    Detailed Project Cost Tables
2.    Background Tables 1-13 for Annex 8 (IA Development Program)



PHILIPPINES
Water Resources Development Project
Organization Chart for Project Implementation
Project Steering
Committee
Water Resources Plan               Watershed Management               Administrator, NIA - Chair
Steering Committee                  Steering Committee                  NEDA, DA, DENR,
DOH, NWRB - Members
DENR - Chair
NEDA, DPWH, DENR,                       DA, D  Oar,
DILG, DA, NWRB, MWSS,                   NEA,A,AR
LWUA, NIA, NPC                   DILG, NIA, NPC, PNOC,      *NIA
LWUA, N PLGU, NGO - Members        .                 .                         Technical Advisory
Committee
Asst. Administrator, PDI - Chair
. *                       Asst. Administrators for
SOEM, and Finance and
;                 *                        Administration - Members
Water Resources Management            Watershed Management                           Irrigation Management                            Schistosomiasis Control
.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Director
Executive Director, NWRB    .        DireCtor (FMB), DENR      .Manager (SMD), NIA                                    .             Schisto Conltrol Service),
*.                                                                                   I
Project Management Unit]     -         Technical Grou,o       _'PrjctCorignedatoraff               _. 
Ir NIA Regional Irriggeme                     Regional Schisto Control
*|             Offices           111     .            Offices, DOH
*~~~ I
u  Pr jt C NIAIrrgation Syste ad                  Municipal Health Offices
Project Managemet  Oc             -    '               (LGUs)
*         ~~~~Offices                              Ofc5  O



PHILIPPINES
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Figure 2. Implementation Schedule
ACTIVITY                             YEAR    YEAR    YEAR    YEAR    YEAR
F ___ _  ___________ ____             _    1997    1998    19997   2000    2001
1. Water Resources Planning and Management
Improvement
2. Watershed Management Improvement                                                             ... .... .. .  ..... ..*..r
3. Systems Improvement and Repair:
a. Improvemeritof 14 NIS                         -. f ag. ....... .                   . ....... a -
b. Construction of Silt Excluders
c. Repair of Major Structures                                               .......
4. Institutional Strengthening of NIA and the lAs:
a. Accounting and Financial Management           fg                  ...    e..                             a
Improvement
b. Computerized  MIS.....                                    .. .
c. NIA Staff Training
d. IA Development and Management Turn-over
Program aa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    S. g..f      .......                  .....a........ff faf   a
Program                                                                                                ,.e-
5. Environment Improvement                        I                                  i
a.  Schistosomiasis Control                                                . .................
*c= _ _     . Sediment Mo g. .  .   .
d Evrosinmeontaol Ui  LclCnutn



121                         ~~~~~~~CHINA
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECTCCocnUK54
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS SELECTED FOR IMPROVEMENT
/               *-  ~~~~PHIUPISNES
*1    NATITONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS SELECTED FOR IMPROVEMENT
I1   OTHER NATKONAI IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
o     SELECTED CMERS                                                                                                                                  BRUNEI
*  NATinAL CAITEAL                                                                                                                              M    ALAYSlA ~ 
-   REGIONJROIMDARIES238
REGONSR-J                                                             6,Jt1  4                .                                                      INDONESIA.
I  ILOCOS                                                                     T        7f  '6_EGA  TP3 
CAR  CORDILEIERA ADAMRSTEAETVE REGONl (CAR)                                                                                                _________________
TI CAGAYAN VALLEY                                                                               i
NCR   NATIONAL CAPIrAL REGOEN (NCGR)                                                AR
IV  SOLFHESN TAGALOG                                                     3                  3-TJAJNI
V   Rica                                                    S.n Fercr0               7        7SN #6A118. - CAIAOAN IS
vi  WESTERN VTSAYAS                                                            I         342-QSDIST N
Vii  CENT.L VTSAYAS                                                  13~
VIi  EASTERN VTSAYAS                                                                                 LUZON /
I xWESTERN MINOANAO                                           K   .r        s~                         U O                                                                            1
X  ?KRTH*EN MINDANAO                                                               I
xi  SOUTH$ERN MINDANAO                                           S.4    *S 
xii  CENTEAL MNDANAO                                    ss.-caMwevo MIS       3
ARMM   ALJrONOMcOUS REGION OF MUSLIM MINIDANAO IAMM)                   ,32        SnF.4d
tt:.         Z ~                                                                       md:PHILIPPINE SEA
lig                  C.TANVIXANES
IV
* 714600- ~ICAYAO U          93294'95,96
82-PAOAIRA    MS"                                       Ina9t
o    5   0   IT I     200  250   (XKln.imaM6WR                                  3
I       II          I    I                                     MINvOROq
Ir         I          I          I7         I                                             '                                 '.9
S         TO         161        150        2m                                    7.4     , 
Hr                                      I                              '2                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAMAR
SOUTH CHINA                                                                     NA-AY'2                                          1
SEA                                      2Ii                                                                        1if4%aa
*0 
VI -   ~           1/l 
NEGROSRO-O
(M,alda-a               e
Suit,  v-                                                             '            '5
NATIONAL IRRIGATIN SYSTEMS                                           .fl33~20:   uir~                            ~                     *" 'x
NAIIONA Lt, IRI     2TO           SYSTEM Aiaaa                                                                                                      AI4IAIC9.1D-       '
2a                          *- Cab                                                                       MINDANAO T                        -165  ~ 3                 It
2 ~~~"'a~~~~         USI C.t ,a,-XII'
Raa.gaP,nal        2' ~~Nay                                                                                                           16,147.148
-ln a,a                 5D S.aIn                                   ARMM               '>,                                                               465
ISI 5a 'a.. Ca'-              SiCSa.-I.,                                                                          Ce/e,b'  Sea
I  h-1-        ~           52, ULana=.c;~
IS Saula                     556-  75115 D'tI'aIlt
IS 7D-a,                                                          V-2- 22
~~.b~~~~~-f -t CANAagt                             Iauaga                                                                 ag*ada
REGION ICAHI           .~~,~   Iaaa    SN   luala',G RE aIOMaaqCaa                       PE     a4aON   1 ETRAL.AYASMaua,-  a'a
C* Dgayaa AbuIT-0I              -  "na                          2  t, tab                         CN  1lA5,gTERNI SYA5               -an                          la
REK71 AGAnANga                   SnA CA,- a                       151,                              tts_'a MI -A                                                     Ab7lnaa
'san                  B'xa                              ,t.,ata                    '                                   PaAa-
tana (baa             tflAa~C.- E,,aa                                                     lena'                          uKna 
udbag                  lt.,Aaa~~~s J_                  S  Faau~,                          1>', At,                       Slua
24  ,qap Ptal,                                              U   STEala. V    I.STaRaa SA5240WETRNAS2A
2 S',aBla(bna                8la  aas                            A.l-t' San an                                                      aI','
36  IIS63aaatT                                                                                R C40NanX g  IERNgMsat.Sag
279       = MRIS btl- Pl                                        -  ag'-a                         2   ltaS                            u
0311 D.-I iii                   Eana                       'i3   zaI,-                        1321Iagn  ala                         &a
MIllS U,tR,d N     !    --d                       log haa  Ida, Loda                                                      a
=Z Do:::~~~~~~~~~~~~,  E-w                                                       T.,~~~~~~~~~~
Lusaba                         tlA,n 









IMAGING
Report No:      15297 PH
Type: SAR



