Report No. PIC2359
Project Name              Philippines-Water Resources Development...
Project
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Water Supply, Urban
Project ID                PHPA4613
Borrower                  Republic of the Philippines
Implementing Agencies     (1)  National Irrigation Administration
(NIA)
Contact: Administrator, NIA
Address: NIA, National Government
Center
E. De Los Santos Avenue
Quezon City, Philippines
Telephone:      97-60-71 to 78
Fax:            96-58-22
(2)  National Water Resources Board
(NWRB)
Contact: Executive Director, NWRB
Address: NWRB, National Government
Center
E. De Los Santos Avenue
Quezon City, Philippines
Tel.& Fax:     As in (1) above
(3) Department of Environment and Natural
Resources (DENR)
Contact:  Ms.Nelia Quinones,
Technical Assistant on
Water
Office of the Secretary,
DENR
Address:  DENR Building, Visayas
Avenue
Diliman,QuezonCity,
Philippines
Telephone:      97-66-71 to 75
Fax:            922-6991
(4)  Department of Health (DOH)
Contact:  Director, Schistosomiasis
Control Service
Address:  DOH, San Lazaro Compound
Santa Cruz, Manila
Philippines
Telephone:      711-6080/711-9502
Fax:           711-6080
Tentative Appraisal Date       February 1996
Tentative Board Date           May 1996



Date This PID Prepared         January 18, 1996
Background
1.   The proposed project has been conceived to help the Government
implement the broad policy and institutional framework envisaged under
the World Bank Policy Paper on Water Resources Management (1993);
formulate a national water resources management strategy that reflects
the nation's social, economic and environmental objectives and is based
on a proper assessment of the country's water resources; adopt a river
basin approach, integrating land use policies and agricultural practices
with water management; properly manage upstream watersheds for
sustaining irrigation and other projects, assuring water quality, and
protecting aquatic ecosystems; and emphasize decentralized management
with participation of stakeholders and greater cost recovery.
2.   Water Resources Sector.   The water resources sector includes sub-
sectoral activities in irrigation, drainage, flood control, municipal
and industrial water supply, hydropower, salinity control, fishery,
protection of aquatic life, and navigation. Irrigation is the biggest
water user in the Philippines, accounting for over 80t of the total
water demand in the country; industries and domestic uses account for
10t and 5t, respectively.   Although water use for hydropower generation
is non-consumptive, the pattern of water releases has to meet the power
demands.  About 10t of river flows are considered to be a minimum in the
Philippines to maintain instream aquatic life, navigation, salinity
control, and fishing. There are over 20 agencies and 10 government
departments dealing with water resources activities in the country. The
legal framework for the water resources sector management is provided by
the Water Code of 1976. The responsibility for administering and
enforcing the Water Code lies with the NWRB, which is vested by the Code
with broad powers for coordinating, controlling, supervising, and
regulating the development, utilization and protection of water
resources in the country. The next most important institution in the
water resources sector is the DENR, which is responsible for watershed
management, monitoring of water quality, and ground water data
collection. The major water services providers and users are NIA for
irrigation and drainage; Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA),
Water Districts, and Manila Water Supply and Sewerage System (MWSS) for
municipal and industrial water supply; and the Department of Public
Works and Highways (DPWH) for flood control, small water impounding
projects, and rural water supply. The NWRB, although a regulatory body,
is under the administrative jurisdiction of the DPWH, which is itself a
major water services provider.
3.   Water Resources Management in the Philippines. The water resources
management framework in the Philippines as it stands today was largely
created in the 1970s, with the following main elements:
+    A basic law (the Philippines Water Code of 1976) which
clarified ownership of water and rights to its use, and established
broad priorities in the allocation of such rights;
+    A planning framework comprising the 1976 Water Resources
- 2 -



Assessment (projecting supply and demand to the year 2000 for
each of 12 water resources regions of the country), together
with some 40 basin and regional framework plans prepared
between 1976-83;
+    A licensing system for management and control;
+    A water management agency (the National Water Resources Board
- NWRB) that administers the Water Code and coordinates the
activities of some 32 agencies under 12 Departments involved
in the water sector.
4.   The framework responded to the problems of the 1970s but was not
progressively upgraded and strengthened to meet the new challenges. The
demands and environmental pressures on water resources having increased
greatly since the 1970s, weaknesses have emerged both in the existing
framework and in the policy implementation, as generally reflected in
growing water conflicts; deteriorating water quality; inadequate
provision of water services; and inconsistent activities amongst
agencies involved in the water sector.
5.   The increasing water resources management challenge, recently
termed a +crisis+ in a number of official documents and public
statements by the Government, cuinated in the 1995 +Water Crisis Act+
(Republic Act No. 8041), and the draft +Irrigation Crisis Act+ being
considered by the Congress. The problem is not the shortage of water per
se: the current annual demand for water nationally is less than one-
third of the available water. The problem arises from supply-demand
mismatch and inadequate infrastructure to regulate flood flows and store
surplus water in the wet season for consumption in the dry season. The
problem is compounded by weaknesses in the management of water resources
and inefficiency in the use of water.
6.   The Government is conscious of the need to address these issues.
The most significant recent development in this regard was the December
1994 National Water Summit, opened by the President of the Philippines.
The Summit discussed water quantity issues (projected water shortages in
a number of regions), quality issues (excessive pollution of an
increasing number of waterways), health issues (continuing incidence of
water-borne diseases), development issues (need for formulation and
implementation of water resources management plans to support socio-
economic development), efficiency issues (need for incentives to promote
economic and financial viability of institutions), institutional issues
(fragmentation of responsibility amongst agencies), management issues
(inadequate balancing of supply and demand), and financing issues
(limited public sector resources for investment). As a result of the
discussions, there was a consensus on the need for interalia
strengthening and phased upgrading of the NWRB to become an effective
national water resources management agency.
7.   The Summit agreed on the need for further integration and
coordination of all water-related efforts towards a more focused
approach to water resources management and for strengthening and phased
upgrading of the NWRB to become an effective national water resources
management agency. Under the 1995 +Water Crisis Act+, a Joint
-3 -



Legislative-Executive Commission has been formed for implementation of
the Act and for recommending an action plan to the President and
Congress by March 1996.
8.   To assist the Government in formulating an action plan, a study of
the NWRB and the overall water resource management framework was
undertaken, and a technical action plan and an institutional and policy
action plan formulated. Most of the recommendations of the technical
action plan (which includes policy and strategy formulation, data
programs, resource assessment and planning, operations and real-time
management, and research and strategic studies) have been incorporated
in the proposed project, and the rest will be implemented under other
externally-funded projects or by the NWRB itself. The main
recommendations of the institutional and policy action plan relate to
creation of Regional offices of the NWRB, strengthening of the NWRB+s
law enforcement capacity, changes in the NWRB+s Board composition and
its powers, operationalization of a Special Account in the General Fund
to the credit of NWRB, revision of water rates and charges, withdrawal
of exemption of government agencies from payment of fees and charges
levied under the Water Code, modification of the Implementing Rules and
Regulations of the Water Code, attachment of the NWRB to the Office of
the President for the time being, improvement of incentives for the NWRB
staff through exemption from the Salary Standardization Law, a
substantial increase in the level of fines for offences against the
Water Code, and renaming of the NWRB the Philippines Water Resources
Authority. The above recommendations are being reviewed by the
Government and a dialogue on those will be continued under the proposed
project.
9.   Watershed Management.   The degradation of the watersheds and its
impact, particularly on downstream water users, is becoming increasingly
critical in the country. Some of the watersheds, because of their
economic importance, have been designated under Presidential Decree 705
to be "proclaimed watersheds" (i.e. watershed reserves). There are
currently 112 proclaimed watersheds in the country covering about 1.4
million ha. The extent of degradation of these watersheds is not known
with any precision but is likely to be high. Studies prepared for the
Forestry Master Plan estimated that soil erosion alone cost the country
over half a billion dollars a year, primarily through loss of productive
land, damage to irrigation systems and coastal fisheries, and reduced
generation of hydroelectric power. Through 1993, the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) rehabilitated only about 30,000
ha of denuded watersheds, leaving a huge "proclaimed" area still to be
rehabilitated and protected.
10. The major issue is the absence of an integrated and comprehensive
approach to watershed management. Current projects for watershed
management have partial area coverage and sometimes concentrate on
reforestation alone. Given the extent of watershed degradation in the
country and the disastrous consequences for vital economic
infrastructure as degradation continues, it is essential that a long-
term strategy and investment program be formulated and implemented,
accompanied by policy and legal changes, and institutional strengthening
of the DENR and other involved agencies.
- 4-



11. Irrigation Sub-Sector. Agriculture (principally irrigation) is the
major user of water in the Philippines, consuming over 80t of the
developed water resources. Irrigation development has been an important
instrument of the Government for promoting agricultural growth and
alleviating rural poverty over the past two decades. Irrigation systems
now serve an area of about 1.5 million ha, about 48t of the irrigable
area (although development of the entire area may not necessarily be
economically viable). About 95t of the irrigated area is devoted to
paddy and about 70t of the paddy production is from irrigated lands.
For dry season cropping, irrigation is essential in all climatic zones
in the country. There are three main types of irrigation systems in the
Philippines: (a) national irrigation systems (NIS): there are 168 NIS,
serving about 620,000 ha.(43w of total irrigated area) The National
Irrigation Administration (NIA), a government-owned corporation
responsible for irrigation development, constructs, operates and
maintains NIS. Farmers in NIS pay an Irrigation Service Fee (ISF); (b)
communal irrigation systems (CIS): there are about 6,200 CIS, serving
about 730,000 ha.(47T of total irrigated area). These are small, mostly
run-of-the-river, gravity systems, owned and operated by Irrigators'
Associations (IAs). Since the promulgation of the Local Government Code
in January 1992, the overall responsibility for CIS (except ongoing
foreign-funded CIS) has been transferred from NIA to the local
governments, but procedures for planning and programming, financial and
technical assistance (if required by the IAs) for construction and
rehabilitation, and development and training of the IAs, are yet to be
established by the local governments; and (c) pump-lift irrigation
systems (PIS): these serve about 200,000 ha. (10t of total irrigated
area), covering from 20 to 100 ha per system, and are privately owned
and mostly privately operated.
12. Irrigation Systems Performance. The performance of most of the
irrigation systems in the Philippines has been below expectations, for
reasons which include: deficient water management due to institutional
weaknesses of NIA and the IAs; insufficient water control structures to
ensure equitable and timely water deliveries to all sections of the
irrigation systems; neglect of flood protection and drainage in the
design of NIS; inadequate funding of operation and maintenance; and
increased siltation of irrigation systems caused by watershed
degradation and severe erosion during typhoons.
13. Problems of NIA and Irrigators+ Associations. Although NIA is an
autonomous corporate entity, it does not finance investment projects
from its own resources or loans. All investment programs are financed
by the Government. However, NIA is responsible for O&M of the NIS,
which is funded by NIA+s operating budget. NIA+s income is principally
from ISF collections, management fees charged for the design and
construction supervision of irrigation projects, and rentals of
construction equipment. Any change in ISF rates has to be approved by
the Government. The management fees depend on the level of the
investment program, which has declined in recent years due to the
Government+s financial constraints. Because of inadequate maintenance
resulting from a shortage of funds, irrigation infrastructure and the
quality of irrigation services provided to farmers on NIS have
deteriorated, affecting ISF collection, which   was only 609 of current
billings in 1994, and met only 55t of the total O&M expenditures. NIA
- 5 -



realizes its serious financial situation and is implementing several
measures to improve the situation. These include: streamlining of its
organization and staffing; an accelerated program to turn over NIS or
parts of NIS to the IAs to reduce NIA+s O&M costs; and special efforts
for an increase in equipment rental income and ISF collection. Under
the Second Irrigation Operations Support Project (IOSP II, Loan 3607-PH,
approved in FY93), ISF collection is targeted to be at least 70t of
current billings by the end of the project in 1998, meeting about 95t of
the total O&M expenditures of NIS.
14. As regards the institutional development program for the IAs, NIA
has been a pioneer among developing countries. The program for the
involvement of IAs in planning, construction, and management of
irrigation schemes started about years ago on communal schemes and was
later adopted on national schemes. However, the management turnover
program on NIS has lost its momentum, although the number of IAs formed,
registered and granted contracts (for maintenance of sections of NIS and
ISF collection) is impressive.   It appears that at least 50t of the IAs
formed so far in NIS are facing difficulties in fulfilling their
contractual obligations to NIA. The IA development program needs
revitalization to enable the IAs to assume greater responsibilities and
to help achieve the ultimate policy objective of NIA to completely
turnover the smaller NIS as well as lateral canal systems of bigger NIS
to the IAs. NIA will then restrict itself to delivering water services
to the IAs at the lateral gates in larger NIS which cannot be turned
over in the entirety in the foreseeable future due to the complexity of
operations and maintenance of these systems.
15.  Government Strategy for the Water Resources Sector.     The
Government is now keen to initiate an integrated and comprehensive
approach to water resources management (para.7) and to pursue further
water supply and sanitation, flood control, and irrigation improvement
projects. Many of these projects were financed by the World Bank, the
last project, Second Irrigation Operations Support Project (IOSP II -
Loan 3607-PH), which was approved by the Bank in FY93, dealing with
irrigation. The project's main emphasis, apart from systems improvement
and repair, is on achieving an improved and sustainable level of
operation and maintenance of NIS. To assist NIA in improving the ISF
collection efficiency through improvements in irrigation service
delivery, and to expand the irrigated area further, additional
investment projects for systems improvement and new construction would
have to be undertaken in the future. While a few new large-scale
irrigation and multipurpose projects may be justified, the priority
would be improvement and repair of existing NIS (which continue to be
NIA's responsibility), and construction and rehabilitation of communal
and small-scale irrigation schemes (devolved to local government units),
which will require smaller investments but yield faster returns.
Lessons Learned from Previous Projects
16. Overall water resources management will be a new Bank activity in
the Philippines. Based on experiences elsewhere, institutional
coordination and strong leadership by the regulatory agency (or
agencies) are likely to be critical. This has been addressed at the
design stage by including support to key activities under the project
- 6 -



and undertaking a dialogue with the Government on policy and
institutional measures (para.8). However, considerable attention to this
component would be needed during implementation. The experience with
watershed management in the Philippines is also meagre at this stage.
The most important lesson emerging from one ongoing and three completed
Bank-supported projects is the need for stakeholder participation in the
planning and implementation of watershed management to ensure
sustainability, and the need for sustainable technologies and livelihood
programs for the people occupying the watersheds. Another major lesson
is the need for appropriate institutional arrangements for watershed
management, given the current weakness of the DENR and inadequate
coordination between the DENR and local governments. These lessons are
expected to be adequately taken into account by the study proposed under
the project. As regards irrigation projects in the Philippines, Bank
experience spans aost three decades. The most recent Bank-financed
irrigation projects, which have been completed or are under
implementation, are IOSP I, IOSP II, Communal Irrigation Development
Project (CIDP I) and CIDP II. Both CIDP I and IOSP I were completed
satisfactorily, with economic rate of return at completion estimated at
15t and 21-, respectively. The implementation of CIDP II and IOSP II was
initially delayed, principally due to inadequate counterpart funding,
but is now satisfactory. The major lessons, which have been learned from
these projects and will be incorporated in the design of WRDP,are: cost-
effective structural interventions (repairs of damages, restoration of
capacities, measures to reduce water losses, improved control and
regulating structures, etc.) contributing to the improvement of water
management in NIS should be adopted; beneficiaries are more likely to
pay ISF, if they actually benefit from O&M and other NIS-related work;
development of IAs and provision of training to them are beneficial: the
transfer of O&M responsibilities to IAs reduced NIA's costs and, in
several instances, system O&M and ISF collection by IAs have improved in
systems where IAs were responsible than in systems where they were not.
Project Objectives
17. The project would assist the Government in developing an
appropriate policy and institutional framework to improve water
resources planning, development and management in the country;
initiating an integrated and comprehensive approach to watershed
management to sustain water sources; raising water use efficiency in
irrigation, and thereby increasing agricultural production (mainly
rice); alleviating rural poverty; improving irrigation services in the
long term by accelerating management turnover of irrigation systems to
the water users and by increasing NIA+s institutional effectiveness; and
improving the environment in irrigated areas, mainly by controlling
schistosomiasis, a water-borne disease.
Project Description
18. The five-year project, expected to commence in early 1997, is
likely to include the following main components:
(a)  Improved Water Resource Planning and Management:    ( 7t of
total project cost). The project would help implement policy
and institutional reforms in the water sector. Specifically,
- 7 -



it would include:(i)a study for the formulation of a national
water resources plan; (ii) a study and some essential
equipment for the improvement of national data collection
networks for streamflow,groundwater, and water quality; (iii)
a study for the design of and equipment for the establishment
of a national water information network, a    personal
computer-based system to link the data bases of the NWRB with
those of other important agencies for easy data access; and
(iv) strengthening of the technical capability of the NWRB
through provision of appropriate staffing, training,
consultancy, equipment and organizational changes;
(b)  Improved Watershed Management:    (2t of total project cost).
This component include: (i) a study to formulate a national
watershed management strategy and a long-term program of
investments for a comprehensive, integrated, community-based
management of watersheds, particularly of those considered
critical, and to recommend appropriate policies, and
legislative and institutional measures, to implement the
strategy and investment program; and (ii) a study tour for
DENR and NIA staff to watershed management programs in
neighboring countries;
(c)  Improvement and Repair of NIS:   (85w of total project cost).
The project would continue the program approach initiated
under the IOSP II to support investments for improvement and
repair of existing NIS by providing for system improvements in
18 selected NIS,serving about 200,000 ha, silt excluders in
another five NIS,         and repairs to eight major structures
(other than the 18 selected for improvement). The improvement
works in 18 selected NIS would include improvement of drainage
of water-logged areas in the wet season, and construction of
new structures for water level control and equitable
distribution based on an Irrigation System Improvement Plan,
to ensure saving of water through good water       management.
The improved laterals and sub-laterals of the NIS would be
handed over to the IAs for maintenance and water distribution.
The project would also initiate a program of complete turnover
to the IAs of smaller NIS (below 3,000 ha).
(d)  Institutional Strengthening of NIA and the IAs:   (4t of total
project cost). The project would: (i) provide staff training,
consultancies, computers and other necessary equipment to NIA
for strengthening and improvements in: design of system
improvement and repair works; equipment management; accounting
system and financial management; and computerized management
information system; and (ii) further expand the participation
of the IAs in the planning, implementation, management and
ownership of irrigation systems under a reformulated program
of turnover, and support the required policy changes,
training, incremental operating costs and consultancies to
implement the reformulated program.
(e)  Environmental Improvement:   (2t of total project cost). The
project would: (i) supplement the resources of the Department
of Health (which are very limited now after the completion in
- 8 -



1994 of the Health Development Project (Loan 3099-PH, approved
in FY89) for schistosomiasis control in and around three
irrigation systems, of which two have a relatively high
prevalence rate of the disease, by providing drugs and
materials, transport, toilet facilities, information
campaigns, consultancy and training (the infrastructure
requirements, such as foot bridges, drainage improvement,
etc., would be included in the systems improvement component
of the project); (ii) provide for erosion control works within
and in the proximity of 31 NIS; (iii) support sediment
monitoring of rivers and canals in three NIS, where sediment
excluders are to be built under the project; and (iv) improve
NIA+s capacity for assessment, management and monitoring of
irrigated areas for environmental concerns by consolidating
environmental work, currently being performed in different
sections or divisions, in an Environment Unit or Division, and
provide it with training and consultancy.
19. Project Cost and Financing. The project cost is estimated at
US$85.6 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$.3
million equivalent (30w of total project cost) and taxes and duties
estimated at about US$1.5 million equivalent. The Bank loan (75w of
project costs net of taxes and duties) is estimated at US$63.0 million,
which will finance 100t of foreign exchange costs and 64t of local costs
net of taxes and duties. A special account would be established in the
amount of US$3.0 million.
Project Implementation
20. The project will be implemented primarily by NIA, with the NWRB
implementing the water resource management component, and the DENR
implementing the watershed management component. For the schistosomiasis
control sub-component, NIA would pass on to DOH the necessary funds,
materials and equipment under a Memorandum of Agreement. A Project
Steering Committee, composed of DENR, NWRB, NIA, and DOH would be
formed. The Committee would be chaired either on a rotational basis or
by NIA (to be finalized at appraisal), and NIA would provide the
secretariat for the Committee and consolidate loan withdrawal
applications to be submitted to the Bank. Individual agencies would,
however, form their own project units to implement the respective
project components.
21. Project Sustainability. The main sustainability issue relates to
the project component for irrigation systems improvement and repair,
which accounts for about 85t of total project costs and depends
significantly on the cooperation of the IAs for efficient operation and
maintenance. To ensure the sustainability of this component, detailed
consultations with the IAs were held by NIA at the planning stage. The
participation of the IAs during the implementation stage would be
ensured through signing of a Memorandum of Understanding, which will
detail the respective responsibility of NIA and the IAs, and through
labor contribution by the IAs to the construction of secondary and
tertiary facilities of the irrigation systems. After improvement,
smaller systems (below 3,000 ha) would be completely handed over to the
IAs and, for the larger systems, responsibility for O&M of specific
-9-



sections of NIS would be handed over under a Memorandum of Agreement.
This is expected not only to improve the efficiency of irrigation
systems in the long term but also considerably reduce NIA+s operating
costs. Support to both NIA and the IAs is included in the project+s
institutional strengthening component, which is designed to facilitate
the sustainability of the systems improvement and repair component. The
reduction in O&M costs, coupled with other institutional strengthening
measures for NIA under the project, the staff reduction and other
streamlining measures currently underway at NIA, and efforts being made
to increase the ISF collection under the ongoing IOSP II (Loan 3607-
PH),would help improve NIA+s financial viability and contribute to the
project+s sustainability. Under the WRDP, NIA would make all efforts to
achieve a target of 75% ISF collection efficiency in the 18 systems
selected for improvement. These would then serve as valuable
demonstration models in cost recovery and user management.
Environmental Aspects
22. Since the project+s physical works would include only improvement
of existing NIS, no major new earth movement, water regulation or
storage, or deforestation, and, therefore, no major environmental risks
are involved. On the contrary, the project would have important
environmental benefits arising from the following: (a) the project
would help formulate a national water resources management plan and a
watershed management strategy and investment program, strengthen the
regulatory role of national agencies, and develop NIA+s capacity for
environmental monitoring of irrigated areas; (b) the project would help
control schistosomiasis in and around three irrigation systems; (c) the
project would include provision for vegetative erosion prevention
measures for micro-catchments in the vicinity of irrigation systems; and
(d) by raising incomes and creating employment in the rural lowlands,
the project would contribute to stemming the increasing out-migration of
poor farmers from these rural areas to uplands and coastal areas, where
such migration has caused serious environmental problems -- forest and
other resource depletion and erosion in the uplands, and degradation of
nearshore fisheries -- thereby providing indirect but important
environmental benefits. For some irrigation systems included for
improvement under the project, drainage (with schistosomiasis control as
a major indirect benefit) and link canal works would be involved,
necessitating acquisition of right-of-way and compensation. However,
since the farmers involved would also be beneficiaries under the
project, no problems are foreseen
Project Benefits
23. The project would help improve water resources planning,
development and management in the country through policy and
institutional reforms and formulation of water management and watershed
protection and rehabilitation plans and programs; alleviate rural
poverty by directly increasing the productivity and incomes of about
30,000 small farmers on about 27,000 ha incremental irrigated area in
the wet season (mainly through drainage improvements), and about 29,000
ha in the dry season (an additional ,000 small farmers would benefit
indirectly from sub-components for repairs to major structures and
schistosomiasis control); increase agricultural production (mainly rice,
- 10 -



amounting to about 160,000 tons annually) and expand rural employment
opportunities; provide for environmental improvement in irrigated areas;
strengthen NIA+s capacity to deliver efficient irrigation services; and
increase participation of beneficiaries in the planning, implementation
and O&M of irrigation services, thus making these services more
responsive to their needs. The economic rate of return (ERR) of the
project calculated for the system improvement and repair component
(which accounts for 85% of total project costs) is 35%.
Poverty Category
24. The project belongs to the Program of Targeted Interventions since
the proportion of the poor among project beneficiaries (over 50%) is
substantially higher than their proportion in the overall population of
the country (37%). The project components which will primarily benefit
the poor (improvement and repair of NIS, and environmental improvement)
would account for over 80% of the Bank loan amount.
Risks
25.    The magnitude of risks varies for different project components:
(a) For the water resources and watershed management components, the
risks are negligible since the components mainly include studies and
procurement of equipment, and the amounts involved are well within the
Government+s financing capability. Grant cofinancing may also be
available for these components. (b) Risks are also negligible for the
environmental improvement component, which has a small financing
requirement, and whose main sub-component, schistosomiasis control,
would be implemented by an experienced agency, the DOH. (c) For the
systems improvement and repair component, the technical risks (design
and construction quality) are relatively minor, and would be further
reduced during implementation through intensive supervision. However,
there are significant financial and institutional risks relating to the
system improvement sub-component. Based on the past experience with the
Bank-supported projects in the Philippines, the main financial risk is
inadequate and delayed fund releases by the Government, which could
delay implementation. To resolve this long-standing problem, the Bank
recently completed a Public Expenditure Review, which has resulted in
agreements with the Government on adequate and timely finding of
priority public investments. Moreover, the Government+s Medium-Term
Public Investment Plan (MTPIP) for 1993-98 envisages near doubling of
budgetary allocations to NIA over the remaining years of the plan
compared to the 1994 level. The 1995 and 1996 allocations, which are
already much higher than the 1994 allocation, demonstrate the
Government+s commitment to the MTPIP. If this trend continues,
counterpart funding should cease to be a major problem. The
institutional risk is the most significant for the systems improvement
sub-component, since the main objective of the sub-component (improved
water use efficiency leading to increased irrigated area) can not be
realized without the full cooperation and discipline of the IA members.
The participatory process adopted for the formulation of the component
and to be adopted for its implementation (para.21), the agreement with
the IAs already obtained for management turnover of systems after
improvement, and the support to be provided to the IAs under the
institutional strengthening component, are all expected to minimize the
- 11 -



risk of non-cooperation of the IAs, but intensive supervision of this
part of the project would still be necessary during implementation.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 12 -



