Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4110 PH
                               Loan Agreement
                    (Water Resources Development Project)
                                  between
                         REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated December 20, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4110 PH
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.   The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 , with the modifications set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 6.03 is modified to read:
     "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of
     the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
     have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for
     a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time the
     Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an
     amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project's
     costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at
Page  2
     any time the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be
     financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or
     fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the
     Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement
     or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having
     taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to
     remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures
     in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been
     eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d)
     at any time the Bank determines that the procurement of any
     contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is
     inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
     the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures
     in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been
     eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e)
     after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain
     unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have
     received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
     with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice
     to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
     Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon
     the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be
     canceled."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Action Plan" is the Action Plan for Reforms Relating to the
National Water Resources Board of November 1995;
     (b)  "DENR" means the Borrower's Department of Environment and
Natural Resources and any successor thereto;
     (c)  "DENR Parts of the Project" means Parts A.2 and A.3 of the
Project;
     (d)  "DENR Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) (i)  of this Agreement;
     (e)  "DOH" means the Borrower's Department of Health and any
successor thereto;
     (f)  "IA" means Irrigators' Association, an association of farmers
who jointly own and operate a communal irrigation system or who share
the use of a portion of a national irrigation system, registered with
the Borrower's Security and Exchange Commission in accordance with
Batas Pambansa Blg. 68, otherwise known as the Corporation Code of
the Philippines, as may be amended from time to time; and "IAs" means,
collectively, Irrigators' Associations;
     (g)  "Irrigation System Improvement Plan" means an irrigation
system improvement plan furnished to the Bank in accordance with Part
B (2) (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, for each NIS selected under
Part B.1 of the Project;
     (h)  "NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration, a
government-owned entity responsible for irrigation development and for
the design, construction, operation and maintenance of the national
irrigation systems, and any successor thereto;
     (i)  "NIA Special Account" means the special account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
     (j)  "NIS" means a national irrigation system which is operated
and maintained by NIA;
     (k)  "NWRB" means the National Water Resources Board, an agency
of the Borrower attached to the Borrower's Department of Public Works
and Highways, which is responsible under the Philippine Water Code of
1976 for coordinating, supervising and regulating the development,
Page  3
utilization and protection of water resources in the territories of
the Borrower, and any successor thereto;
     (l)  "Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Policy Framework
for Resettlement of Project Affected Families of February 1996, as
amended in August and September 1996, approved by the Borrower through
NIA, which sets out the policies and procedures governing land
acquisition, resettlement and compensation in connection with the
implementation of Part B of the Project, and the reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said policies and
procedures;
     (m)  "SPAF" means a seriously  project affected family as defined
in the Resettlement Policy Framework; and
     (n)  "Special Accounts" means the DENR Special Account and the
NIA Special Account, collectively, and "Special Account" means one of
the Special Accounts.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to fifty  eight million dollars ($58,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars:
          (i)  a special deposit account for Parts A.2 and A.3 of the
               Project; and
         (ii)  a special deposit account for Parts A.1, B, C and D of
               the Project; each in a commercial bank specifically
               authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng
               Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
               Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
               seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out
               of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
               with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
Page  4
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
               in dollars for value the first day of such Interest
               Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
               for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or
               next preceding the first day of such Interest Period),
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
               a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
      (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
      (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months'
notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
      Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.1 and D.1 of the Project
through NWRB, Parts A.2 and A.3 through DENR, Parts B, C.2, C.3, D.2
and D.3 through NIA, and Part C.1 through DOH, all with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services, personnel and other resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continuing
implementation of the objectives of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.   (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
           (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                statements of expenditure submitted during such
                fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                              Other Covenants
     Section 5.01. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank at
Page  6
least annually on the progress in establishing a comprehensive
institutional and policy framework for water resources management in
accordance with the Action Plan.
     Section 5.02.  The Borrower shall cause NIA to:
     (a)  take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and
in such amount as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
     (b)  carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practice under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
     (c)  at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accor-
dance with sound engineering, financial and agricultural practice.
                               ARTICLE VI
                      Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Department of Finance
          Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex
          Manila
          Republic of the Philippines
                                   Telex:
                                   40268 CB-CONF
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
Page  7
               By /s/ Raul Ch. Rabe
                                               Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Javed Khalizadeh-Shirazi
                                               Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated            % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                    Dollars)         to be Financed
DENR Parts of the Project
(1)  Works                         6,600,000      100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  72% of local
                                                  expenditures
(2)  Goods:                                       100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures, 100%
     (a)  for Part A.2                            of local expenditures
          of the Project             100,000      (ex-factory cost) and
                                                  80% of local
     (b)  for Part A.3                            expenditures for other
          of the Project           1,500,000      items procured locally
(3)  Incremental Operating Costs:
     (a)  for Part A.2
          of the Project              20,000      25%
     (b)  for Part A.3
          of the Project             480,000      25%
Parts A.1, B, C and D of the Project
(4)  Works:                                       100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
     (a)  for Part B.1                            72% of local
          of the Project          31,000,000      expenditures
     (b)  for Part C.1
          of the Project             100,000
     (c)  other works             14,700,000
(5)  Goods:                                       100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures, 100%
     (a)  for Part C.1                            of local expenditures
          of the Project             200,000      (ex-factory cost) and
                                                  80% of local
     (b)  other goods              2,700,000      expenditures for other
                                                  items procured locally
Page  8
(6)  Incremental Operating Costs:
     (a)  for Part C.1
          of the Project              20,000      25%
     (b)  for other Parts
          of the Project             580,000      25%
                                  __________
     TOTAL                        58,000,000
                                  ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means compensation
for additional staff under Parts A.3, C.3 and D.1 of the Project;
honoraria for staff under Parts A and C.1 of the Project, and for
non-governmental organizations participating in Part A.3 of the
Project; remuneration for Farmer Irrigator Organizers and honoraria
for Water Resources Facilities Technicians acting as Institutional
Development Officers under Parts D.2 and D.3 of the Project;
operating costs for equipment under Part C.3 of the Project,
additional administrative support, printing and travel cost of
project staff.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures under Category 4 (a) for a
NIS under Part B.1 of the Project until: (i) all necessary land
acquisition, compensation and resettlement have been completed in
accordance with Part B (1) (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and
(ii) the Irrigation System Improvement Plan for such NIS has been
approved by the Bank in accordance with Part B (2) (b) of Schedule
5 to this Agreement;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories 4
(b), 5 (a) and 6 (a) until the Memorandum of Agreement between NIA
and DOH has been executed in accordance with Part C of Schedule 5
to this Agreement; and
     (d)  payments made for expenditures under Categories 1, 2 (b)
and 3 (b) under Part A.3 of the Project until the Borrower has
provided the Bank with a list of selected critical watersheds and
the Bank has given its concurrence thereto.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
     (a)  works under: (i) contracts costing less than $5,000,000
equivalent, (ii) force account and (iii) community participation;
     (b)  goods under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 equi-
valent; and
     (c)  Incremental Operating Costs;
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
Page  9
                               SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (a)
developing an appropriate policy and institutional framework to
improve water resources development and management; (b) initiating
an integrated program for watershed management; (c) improving
efficiency in irrigation in order to raise agricultural production;
(d) improving irrigation services by strengthening the responsible
agencies and by promoting the turnover of irrigation systems to
water users; and (e) improving the environment in irrigated areas.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:   Water Resources and Watershed Management
1.   Formulation of a national water resources plan and establishment
of information networks for the collection and dissemination of data
on water resources through the provision of consultants' services,
goods and training.
2.   Development of a long-term national strategy for watershed
management and an investment and institutional strengthening program
therefor through the provision of consultants' services and study
tours.
3.   Improvement in the management of selected critical watersheds
through, inter alia, reforestation, agro-forestry, river bank
protection, farm system improvement and provision of infrastructure.
Part B:   Improvement and Repair of National Irrigation Systems
1.   Improvement of fourteen (14) selected NIS listed in Part A of
the Annex to this Schedule, serving about 110,000 hectares, through,
inter alia, the construction of silt excluders and new structures
to regulate and control water level and distribution, resectioning
of the canals, strengthening of the banks, excavation of new
drainage canals, and installation of measurement facilities.
2.   Major repairs of structures of the NIS of Lower Chico and
Apayao-Abulog in Cagayan Province, Region 2, of Santa Cruz-Mabacan
in Laguna Province, Region 4, of Sibalom-San Jose in Antique
Province, Region 6, of Aklan-Panakuyan in Aklan Province, Region 6,
of Gibong and Cabadbaran-Taguibo in Agusan del Norte Province,
Region 10 and of Tago in Surigao del Sur Province, Region 11,
together serving about 34,000 hectares; and strengthening of the
Masiway dam.
3.   Construction of five (5) silt excluders in the NIS of Amburayan
in La Union Province, Region 1, of Daet-Talisay-Matogdon in Camarines
Norte Province, Region 5, of Lupon in Davao Oriental Province, Region
11, of Batutu in Davao del Norte Province, Region 11 and of Malasila
in North Cotabato Province, Region 12, together serving about 16,000
hectares.
Part C:   Environmental Improvement
1.   Control of schistosomiasis in the areas covered by the NIS of
Andanan in Agusan del Sur Province, CARAGA Region, of Dipolo in
Zamboanga del Sur Province, Region 9 and of M'Lang/Malasila in North
Cotabato Province, Region 12, together serving about 8,000 hectares,
through the provision of, inter alia, equipment, materials, toilets,
and drugs and the launching of an information campaign.
2.   Control of erosion in critical areas in thirty-one (31) selected
NIS listed in Part B of the Annex to this Schedule, serving about
152,000 hectares, through the planting and maintenance of appropriate
vegetation to prevent rainfall runoff erosion of vulnerable slopes,
Page  10
gullies and embankments.
3.   Monitoring of the sediment pattern in the NIS of Dipolo, Jalaur
Proper and M'lang to establish the pattern of sediment load and its
entry into canals and movement downstream.
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening and Training
1.   Strengthening of the technical capabilities of NWRB through
adequate staffing and the provision of consultants' services, goods
and training.
2.   Strengthening of the technical capabilities of NIA in the areas
of accounting, equipment management, irrigation system design,
irrigation management, computerized management information system and
environmental assessment and management, through the provision of
consultants' services, training and equipment.
3.   Development and strengthening of IAs through the provision of
consultants' services and training and the recruitment of Farmer
Irrigator Organizers.
                                 *****
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                          Annex to Schedule 2
Part A
     Name of NIS                   Province            Region
1.   Magapit                       Cagayan               2
2.   San Pablo-Cabagan             Isabela               2
3.   Tumauini                      Isabela               2
4.   Magat River Integrated
     Irrigation System-District II Isabela               2
5.   Angat-Maasim                  Bulacan/ Pampanga     3
6.   Camiling                      Tarlac/ Pangasinan    3/1
7.   Balanac                       Laguna                4
8.   Baco-Bucayao                  Oriental Mindoro      4
9.   Pagbahan                      Occidental Mindoro    4
10.  Jalaur (Proper)               Iloilo                6
11.  Sibalom-Tigbauan              Iloilo                6
12.  Dipolo                        Zamboanga del Sur     9
13.  Andanan Wawa                  Agusan del Sur
                                    CARAGA
14.  M'lang                        North Cotabato        12
Part B
     Name of NIS                   Province            Region
1.   Tagudin                       Ilocos Sur            1
2.   Dumoloc                       Pangasinan            1
3.   Lower Agno                    Pangasinan            1
4.   Magapit                       Cagayan               2
5.   San Pablo-Cabagan             Isabela               2
6.   Angat-Maasim                  Bulacan/ Pampanga     3
7.   Camiling                      Tarlac/ Pangasinan    3/1
8.   Porac-Gumain                  Pampanga              3
9.   Tasmoris                      Tarlac                3
10.  Malatgao                      Palawan               4
11.  Dumacaa                       Quezon                4
12.  Sta. Cruz-Mabacan             Laguna                4
13.  Tigman                        Camarines Sur         5
14.  Hinagyanan                    Camarines Sur         5
15.  Jalaur (Proper)               Iloilo                6
16.  Sibalom-San Jose              Antique               6
17.  Barotac-Viejo                 Iloilo                6
18.  Daguitan                      Leyte del Norte       8
19.  Salug                         Zamboanga del Sur     9
Page  11
20.  Dipolo                        Zamboanga del Sur     9
21.  Sibuguey Valley               Zamboanga del Sur     9
22.  Labangan                      Zamboanga del Sur     9
23.  Pulangui                      Bukidnon             10
24.  Muleta                        Bukidnon             10
25.  Andanan                       Agusan del Sur
                                   CARAGA
26.  Padada                        Davao del Sur        11
27.  Siluay                        South Cotabato       11
28.  Lupon                         Davao Oriental       11
29.  Banga                         South Cotabato       11
30.  Alip                          Maguindanao          12
31.  Rugnan                        Lanao del Sur        12
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in dollars)*
July 15, 2002                                 1,220,000
January 15, 2003                              1,255,000
July 15, 2003                                 1,295,000
January 15, 2004                              1,330,000
July 15, 2004                                 1,370,000
January 15, 2005                              1,415,000
July 15, 2005                                 1,455,000
January 15, 2006                              1,500,000
July 15, 2006                                 1,545,000
January 15, 2007                              1,590,000
July 15, 2007                                 1,640,000
January 15, 2008                              1,690,000
July 15, 2008                                 1,740,000
January 15, 2009                              1,790,000
July 15, 2009                                 1,845,000
January 15, 2010                              1,900,000
July 15, 2010                                 1,955,000
January 15, 2011                              2,015,000
July 15, 2011                                 2,075,000
January 15, 2012                              2,140,000
July 15, 2012                                 2,200,000
January 15, 2013                              2,270,000
July 15, 2013                                 2,335,000
January 15, 2014                              2,405,000
July 15, 2014                                 2,480,000
January 15, 2015                              2,555,000
July 15, 2015                                 2,630,000
January 15, 2016                              2,710,000
July 15, 2016                                 2,790,000
January 15, 2017                              2,860,000
________________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
     repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
     Conditions.
                              SCHEDULE 4
                              Procurement
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Page  12
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
3.   The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
     cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in
     accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under
     paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 equi-
valent, which may be required for use at different times and in
scattered locations, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
     (b)  Works estimated to cost less than $2,500,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $29,600,000 equi-
valent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.   Direct Contracting
     Drugs and other goods for Part C.1 of the Project costing $200,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.   Force Account
     Works under Parts B and C.1 which meet the requirements of para-
graph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and (a) in the case of Part B, costing
less than $600,000 equivalent per assignment, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $18,000,000, and (b) in the case of Part C.1,
costing less than $25,000 equivalent per assignment, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may, with the
Bank's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance
with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
5.   Community Participation
     Works for Parts A.3, B and C.2 of the Project estimated to cost
less than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $11,600,000, may be procured from IAs or other groups of
farmers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  13
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to (a) each contract for (i) goods estimated to cost
$1,000,000 equivalent or more, or (ii) works estimated to cost
$5,000,000 or more, and (b) the first three (3) contracts each for
goods and for works, regardless of the estimated cost thereof, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                           Implementation Program
A.  Part A of the Project
1.   In respect of Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
NWRB to:
     (a)  (i)  undertake and, by December 31, 1999, furnish to the Bank
               for its comments a national water resources planning
               study in accordance with terms of reference developed
               in consultation with the Bank; and
         (ii)  thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the
               recommendations of said study taking into consideration
               the Bank's comments thereon.
     (b)  (i)  undertake and, by December 31, 1999, furnish to the Bank
               for its comments a study for the improvement of the
               national networks for the collection of data on stream-
               flow, groundwater and water quality, in accordance with
               terms of reference developed in consultation with the
               Bank; and
         (ii)  thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the
               recommendations of said study taking into consideration
               the Bank's comments thereon;
     (c)  (i)  undertake and, by December 31, 1999, furnish to the Bank
               for its comments a study for the establishment of a
               national water information network, in accordance with
               terms of reference developed in consultation with the
               Bank; and
         (ii)  thereafter take appropriate actions to implement the
               recommendations of said study taking into consideration
               the Bank's comments thereon;
     (d)  by June 30, 1997, assign to the Bureau of Research and
Standards, the Mines and Geosciences Bureau and the Environmental
Management Bureau the formal responsibility for maintaining national
information networks for the collection of data on streamflow,
groundwater and water quality, respectively; and
     (e)  (i)  by June 30, 1997, establish a National Water Resources
Page  14
               Data Coordination Center with functions and respon-
               sibilities defined in consultation with the Bank, and
         (ii)  adequately staff such center with qualified and
               experienced personnel and provide other necessary
               resources to enable it to achieve its purposes.
2.   In respect of Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
DENR to:
     (a)  undertake and, by December 31, 1998, furnish to the Bank for
its comments a study in accordance with terms of reference developed
in consultation with the Bank for the formulation of a comprehensive
long-term strategy and program for the management of watersheds and
the preparation of detailed management plans for critical watersheds;
and
     (b)  thereafter take appropriate actions to implement the
recommendations of said study taking into consideration the Bank's
comments thereon.
B.  Part B of the Project: Improvement and Repair of National
    Irrigation Systems
1.   The Borrower shall cause NIA, prior to commencing work on each
NIS under Part B.1 of the Project:
     (a)  to undertake the acquisition of all necessary land and
other property, compensation therefor and resettlement in accordance
with the principles and institutional procedures established in the
Resettlement Policy Framework;
     (b)  for each NIS where the number of SPAFs is higher than
twenty-five (25), to prepare and furnish to the Bank a detailed
resettlement action plan acceptable to the Bank documenting the
implementation arrangements for resettlement, including compen-
sation, relocation and rehabilitation; and
     (c)  to complete the implementation of such resettlement action
plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   The Borrower shall cause NIA to:
     (a)  prepare and, by June 30 of each year, commencing in 1997,
furnish to the Bank the work program for the following year satis-
factory to the Bank, such work program to include, inter alia, the
plan for the acquisition of necessary land and other property,
compensation therefor and resettlement described in paragraph 1 (a)
above, engineering data, cost estimates, implementation arrangements
and funding proposal;
     (b)  prior to commencing improvement work on each of the 14
selected NIS under Part B.1 of the Project:
          (i)  consult with the IAs affected by such NIS with the view
               to obtaining their agreement on an improvement and work
               plan and their commitment to cooperate and share the
               implementation costs by contributing their share of
               labor; and
         (ii)  prepare and, at least six months prior to commencing
               work, furnish to the Bank for its concurrence an
               Irrigation System Improvement Plan for such NIS in a
               form acceptable to the Bank which shall include, inter
               alia, an operation plan, a maintenance plan, antici-
               pated increase in irrigated acreage, budget and dis-
               tribution of responsibility agreed between NIA and the
               relevant Ias; and
     (c)  implement such Irrigation System Improvement Plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  15
3.   The Borrower shall ensure that all dams and reservoirs supplying
water to the NIS under this Project are maintained and inspected
periodically in accordance with sound engineering practice, underarrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank, to determine whether there are
any deficiencies in the condition of the structures, or in the quality
and adequacy of maintenance or the methods of operations thereof which
may endanger their safety.
C.   Part C of the Project: Environmental Improvement
     In respect of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
NIA and DOH to execute a Memorandum of Agreement satisfactory to the
Bank whereby NIA shall transfer the necessary equipment, materials
and funds to DOH to enable DOH  to implement this Part of the
Project.
D.   Part D of the Project: Institutional Strengthening and Training
1.   The Borrower shall cause an Environmental Unit to be established
as part of NIA by June 30, 1997, with functions and responsibilities
defined in consultation with the Bank, and maintained with adequate
and experienced personnel and sufficient resources to enable such
Unit to fulfill its responsibilities.
2.   The Borrower shall cause NIA to:
     (a)  formulate and, by December 31, 1997, furnish to the Bank for
comments an equipment management policy; and
     (b)  thereafter take actions to implement such policy taking into
consideration the Bank's comments thereon.
3.   The Borrower shall cause NIA to:
     (a)  formulate and, by June 30, 1997, furnish to the Bank for
comments a policy to protect staff who work on NIS which are projected
to be turned over completely to relevant IAs; and
     (b)  thereafter take actions to implement such policy taking into
consideration the Bank's comments thereon.
4.   The Borrower shall cause NIA to:
     (a)  carry out a pilot program of volumetric pricing on at least
one lateral of a NIS by December 31, 1999 in accordance with terms of
reference developed in consultation with the Bank; and
     (b)  consult with the Bank on the results thereof.
5.   In respect of Part D.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
NIA:
     (a)  by December 31, 1997, to:
          (i)  identify Institutional Development Officers working in
               regional offices and transfer them to the field;
         (ii)  identify Water Resources Facilities Technicians to be
               trained to work as Institutional Development Officers
               and provide them with such training; and
        (iii)  provide revised job descriptions to all staff assigned
               to the Institutional Development Program prior to the
               commencement of their new duties.
     (b)  (i)  by June 30, 1997, to set up system management committees
               for all NIS which are included in Part A of the Second
               Irrigation Operations Support Project financed by the
               Bank pursuant to the Loan Agreement between the Borrower
               and the Bank dated June 9, 1993 (Loan No. 3607-PH), with
               membership, functions and responsibilities acceptable to
               the Bank;
Page  16
         (ii)  to monitor the functioning of such system management
               committees and discuss the results thereof with the
               Bank; and
        (iii)  if such results are deemed positive upon consultation
               with the Bank, to establish, by December 31, 1998,
               system management committees for all NIS included in
               Part B.1 of  the Project.
     (c)  by June 30, 1997 to enter into revised Memoranda of Agreement
with IAs providing for direct billing of irrigation services fees for
NIS which have been improved and turned over to such IAs under this
Project and under such Second Irrigation Operations Support Project.
E.  Monitoring and Reporting
     Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, and in accordance with the performance monitoring
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause:
     (a)  each of NWRB, DENR, NIA and DOH to prepare, by June 30 and
December 31 of each year, commencing in 1997, a semi-annual report
of the progress of implementation of their respective components of
the Project; and
     (b)  NIA, commencing in 1997, to consolidate all such reports
and furnish a consolidated semi-annual report to the Bank within
two (2) months after the end of the semester covered by such reports.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                         Performance Indicators
                                SCHEDULE 7
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means for the NIA Special
Account, Categories 4, 5 and 6 (collectively the NIA Categories) and
for the DENR Special Account, Categories 1, 2 and 3 (collectively
the DENR Categories), all as set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to:
          (i)  $3,000,000 for the NIA Special Account; and
         (ii)  $500,000 for the DENR Special Account;
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into such Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $1,000,000 for the
NIA Special Account and $200,000 for the DENR Special Account until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the amounts of $15,000,000 for the NIA Categories
and $2,000,000 for the DENR Categories, respectively.
2.   Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Page  17
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the said Special
Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into
said Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis
of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into said
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               said Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of said Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for said Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to said Categories,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
Page  18
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the said Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account:
          (i)  was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
         (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
               Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
               the Bank:
               (A)  provide such additional evidence as the Bank
                    may request; or
               (B)  deposit into said Special Account (or, if the
                    Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
                    amount equal to the amount of such payment or
                    the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank
into said Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
