Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10151
Reo.rt N1o     o L5 1 *3P  TY?   (1-C1>,
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
(CREDIT 1061-SE)
DECEMBER 9, 1991
Senegal Resident Mission
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIV,ALENTS
CFAF
The exchange rate varied over the project period
and averaged US $1 = CFAF 275
ABBREVIATIONS
CNCA Commission Nationale des Co.-trats de l'Administration
DDI   Division of Debt and Investments (MEF)
DFP   Directorate of Finance and Programming (MPC)
DP    Planning Directorate (MPc)
DPM   Division of Programming and Monitoring (MPC)
MEF   Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MPC   Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
PCR   Project Completion Report
SAL   Structural Adjustment Loan
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1-June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
dfico of Direotor-General
Operations EvAluatlon
December 9, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report os "enegal - Technical Assistance
Proiect-for Economic and Financial Planning (Credit 1061-SEN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Senegal - Technical Assistance Project for Economic and
Financial Planning (Credit 1061-SEN)"I prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatlon.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION-REPOR7
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
(CREDIT 1061-SE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .
Project Identify   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          3
Project Components ...... ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Design   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          4
Project Organization   . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .                      6
Project Implementation   . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        6
Project Results . . . .. ....                    . .......                                   6
Project Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         8
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         8
Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         8
Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          9
Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         9
Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         9
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ...  .              .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . .    .  10
A.   Related Bank Loans/Credits   ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....    .     10
B.   Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        11
C.   Project Cost and Financing   ...  .            .    ....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
D.   Credit Disbursements   ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......       .    12
E.  Compliance with Credit Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        13
P.  Project Studies  ...    . .....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
G.  Mission Data   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .      .    17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT QOMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
(CREDIT 1061-SE)
PREEACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Senegal Teohnical
Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning for which Credit 1061-SE
in the amount of US$5.3 million was approved in August 1980. The credit was
closed on December 31. 1987, three and one-half years behind schedule. All but
US$0.03 million was disbursed, and the last disbursement was on June 8, 1988.
In March 1991, Parts I and III were sent to the Borrower for comment.
At that time IDA also requested that the Borrower prepare Part II of the
report. To date, no reply has been received.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared by
the Bank's Resident Mission in Senegal on the basis of the President's Report,
the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PFIJECT FOR ECONOMIC
b2D FINANCIAL PLANNING
(CREDIT 1061-SE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.      The Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning
supported the Government of Sen;c-al's efforts to improve its economic and
financial management syotem. It focussed on:
a) the portfolio of development projects;
b) external debt management; and
c) public enterprise management
objectives
2.      The overall objectives of the project were:   a) to increase the
benefits of development projects by improving project preparation, selecting
better and more directly productive projects and improving project implementa-
tion; and b) to improve the process of Government financial control.   The
specific project objectives were to reinforce the Ministry of Plan and
Cooperation's (MPC) management of its portfolio of projects, to help the
Ministry of Finance build a system of external dGbt management, and to assist
the unit of "contrats-plans" in the Presidency in tne development and
implementation of detailed "contrats-plans"l for ten parapublic enterprises
(para. 8).
Implementation Experience
3.      The project was identified in November 1979 and approved in August
1980; the Credit became effective in January 1981. The elapsed time between
these stages of the project was short compared to other Bank projects in
Senegal.   However,  the project encountered implementation delays due to
deficiencies in the design of the component in the Ministry of Plan
(paras. 10-17).  These deficiencies included a lack of consideration of the
institutional dimension within the Ministry of Plan and the underestimation of
technical resources needed for building an effective external debt system
(para. 19). Weak project management, which did not make judicious use of the
large  and  diversified  volume  of  available  expatriate  advisory  services
(para. 33), and insufficient Bank supervision (para. 31) also contributed to
the implementation delays.
Results
4.      The project  achieved  some of its objectives.   A new  system of
investment programming and budgeting, consisting of a three year rolling
investment program, was designed and implemented.   This system, when fully



- iv -
operational, will ensure project selection a.ad financi-ng on the basis of a
rigorous evaluation and economic justification (paras. 23-25).  A system of
external debt management in the Ministry of Finance was also established
(paras. 26-27). The project was less successful regarding the management of
public enterprises (para. 28).
Sustainabilitv
5.      These achievements will not lead to improved economic and financial
management unless the Development Management Project (Credit 1910-SE), which
is designed to provide continuing support to Government in all the areas
assisted under the project, is successful. If not, the sustainability of the
project is doubtful (para. 30).
Lessons Learned
6.      The main lessons the Bank can learn from this project are:
a) Careful design is vital for the success of a Technical
Assistance Project which deals with developing govern-
ment capacity in economic and financial management.
such a design should give due consideration to the
appropriateness of the institutional arrangements of
the Government bodies which are targeted for rein-
forcing;
b) If this precondition is not satisfied, bringing large
amounts of additional manpower -- expatriate or
national -- and financial resources does not guarantee
the desired outcome;
c) Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) when concomitantly
implemented with a Technical Assistance Project in
economic and financial planning can serve as efficient
leverage to reinforce the commitment of the Government
and to prompt implementation of the desired acti.as.
In return, a Technical Assistance Project of this type
can facilitate implementation of the SAL by providing
the financial resources needed to carry out design and
implementation studies;
d) A Technical Assistance Project of this type requires
a significant amount of supervision by the Bank.
Because of the variety of subjects to be covered, the
Bank cannot always respond to the supervision require-
ments.   The focus should be on the most important
problems rather than attempting to deal with a large
spectrum of problems; and
e) Before financing a massive volume of expatriate
advisory services through a Technical Assistance
Project, it must be ensured that the Head of the
office which uses them has the requisite leadership
skills to manage them efficiently.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPPQT
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOM-C
AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
(CREDIT 1061-SE)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Eroj2ct Identity
Name     s Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning
Credit No:  1061-SE
Region   : Africa
Country  : Senegal
Sector   s Technical Assistance
Proiect Backaround
1.      The Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning
was conceived to support the efforts of the Government of Senegal in improving
its capability in economic and financial management. A credit in an amount of
US$5.3 million (Credit 1061-SE) was approved in August 1980. The project was
closed in December 1987. It focussed on three areas:
a) the system of developing a portfolio of Development Projects
b) the management of external debt
c) the relationship of Public Enterprises with the Government.
2.      At the time of project preparation, the Government had initiated a vast
program of reforms to deal with the crisis that the economy was experiencing
in the late 1970s. This crisis, which was evidenced by the rapid decrease of
public savings and deterioration of the current account position, was the
result of the weak economic growth that the country has recorded since its
independence in 1960.  This poor economic performance was partially due to the
adverse effects of exogenous factors such as the poor resource base of the
country, the erratic climatic conditions of an economy dominantly based on
aOiriculture, the unfavorable terms of trade, and the two oil shocks. It was
also the consequence of inadequate economic and financial management by the
Government.
3.      Svstem of Developina a Portfolio of DevelolPment Prriects.   The
Government recognized the need to improve its economic and financial management
systems. Although it was receiving massive public aid ($40 per capita), the
projects being financed did not contribute significantly to accelerated
economic growth. In order to ensure that investment projects were economically
and financially sound, a system which efficiently identified, appraised,
selected, implemented and ex post evaluated these projects was needed. Such
a system would also facilitate the timely disbursement of funds from both the
domestic capital budget and external sources. In the two years preceding the
approval of this project, the Government implemented several measures aimed at
improving project execution including the:



-2-
a) establishment of the Division of Programming and
Monitoring (DPM), within the Ministry of Plan, which
developed analytical tools for economic and financial
analysis of projects;
b) establishment of small groups responsible for project
preparation and analysis in the technical ministries
and project agencies;
c) allocation of budget priority to investment financing
to provide counterpart funds for projects financed by
external sources;
d) creation of a unit in the Prime Minister's office, the
Comit6 de Relance des Investissements, to detect and
unblock specific administrative bottlenecks which were
hampering project execution; and
e) training of local staff working in project agencies to
familiarize them with Government and donor procedures
and to attempt to accelerate the various steps in the
project cycle.
4.      Consolidating and expanding these measures required technical and
financial resources which were beyond the capabilities of the Government at
that time.
5.      Management of the Public Debt.  Senegal's public debt and debt service
grew rapidly in the late 1970s. One factor which contributed to this situation
was the dispersion of borrowing responsibilities among several government
offices:   the Ministry of Finance, the office of Prime Minister and the
Ministry of Plan.   To remedy this institutional weakness, the Government
centralized these responsibilities in the Ministry of Finance, and created the
Department of Debt and Investment (DDI).  In order to function efficiently,
this institutional restructuring needed to be accompanied by proper staffing
and provision of analytical skills, which were not available in the Ministry
of Finance.
6.      Paraoublic Sector Manaaement.   With the support of the Parapublic
Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit 764-SE) approved in May 1977, the
Government implemented a reform program to improve the performance of the
parapublic sector. The project focussed on reinforcing the government agencies
responsible for the financial and accounting control of public enterprises and
training officials representing the Government on the boards of public
enterprises.   The next step in this reform program was clarifying the
relationship of public enterprises to the Government.   The wish of the
Government was to establish medium-term-contracts (contrats-plans) between
public enterprises and the Government, setting out responsibilities, commit-
ments and expectations of both parties, particularly those relating to
management's  objectives  and  government  financial  obligations.    As  the
Parapublic Sector Technical Assistance Project was near completion and its
funds fully committed, the Bank used this project to respond to the Govern-
ment's request for assistance in developing this approach in Senegal.



7.      The  project  was  .-oncomitantly  implemented  with  three  successive
structural adjustment credits (SAL I, SAL II, SAL IIi) a-.pproved respectively
in 1980, 1985 and 1987. The Development Management Project (Credit 1910-SE)
was approved in 1988 to continue assistance in the areas covered by the
project.
Project Obiectiveag and Description
8.      The overall objectives of the project were:
a) to increase the benefits o£ development projects by
improving project preparation, selecting better and
.7.ore productive projects and improving project imple-
mentation; and
b) to improve the process of government financial cun-
trol.
The specific objectives of the project were to:
i) improve the ability of the Ministry of Plan and
Cooperation to: (a) evaluate the economic benefits of
development projects; (b) improve the quality of
project identification and reinforce its role in
planning and project selection and preparation;
(c) monitor project execution and expedite solving
implementation problems; and (d) begin a pilot program
of ex post evaluation of completed projects;
ii) improve control and monitoring of macroeconomic
performance and train local staff in project prepara-
tion, execution and evaluation;
iii) speed up project implementation by, inter alia,
upgrading the Commission Nationale des Contracs de
l'Administration (CNCA), within the office of the
Secretary General of the Presidency, which is respon-
sible for contract review and processing;
iv) assist the Ministry of the Economy and Finance (MEF)
in supporting the operation of the reorganized Depart-
ment of Debt and Investment in order to provide
accurate and timely information on debt statistics and
on funding for the public investment program provided
by domestic resources; and
v) assist the former office of the Prime Minister in the
preparation of contrats-plans for the parapublic
sector.
Project components
9.      The project provided advisory support, local and overseas training,
short-term consultancies for studies, additional local staff, operating



support, and vehicles and equipment to the institutions targeted at project
appraisal: Ministry of Plan and Cooperation; Ministry of the Economy and
Fina-.e? the Secretary General of Presidency; and the office of the Prime
Minister until 1981 when it was suppressed and when the unit of contrats-plans
was absorbed by the Secretariat General of the Presidency.  The project was
also used to help prepare, deeiVn, and implement the action plans associated
with the three Structural Adjustment Credits, which were approved between 1981
and 1987.
Proiect Design
10.     The project encountered implementation difficulties which, to a large
extent, were due to shortcomings in design, especially for the component
deal,ng with the MPC.  The main design flaw was the lack of clarity in the
assignment of responsibilities within MPC for managing the difforent phases of
the project cycle. After three years of project implementation, this component
was redesigned. The redesign did not change the objectives of thie component,
only the ways to achieve them. The result of the component redesign was to
separate the task of project planning and evaluation from investment program-
ming (including financing) and monitoring; responsibility was assigned for
these two tasks to reorganized departments within MPC.   A new system of
investment programmina and budgeting (the three year rolling investment
program --- PTIP) was also established at that time.   Other organizational
changes in the Ministries of Planning and Finance were undertaken.
11.     The project was initially based on the assumption that bringing
additional resources -- technical and financial -- to MPC would help consoli-
date the measures, already taken, and intensify the evaluation efforts of MPC
leading to an increase in the number of projects financed. The main weakness
of the approach, in retrospect, was the failure to consider the appropriateness
of the institutional arrangement within the Ministry of Plan and its relation-
ships with the technical Ministries responsible for generating development
projects.
12.     Within the Ministry of Plan, the dispersion of project processing
responsibilities between two different departments (DP and DFP) and the
executive office of the Minister, and the lack of an efficient information
system resulted in many projects being submitted to donors for consideration
of funding before undergoing a thorough economic and financial evaluation. The
Division of Programming and Monitoring (DPM) which was the target of the
project support in the Ministry of Planning was involved in numerous tasks
without assigned priorities.  The staff of DPM was unable to focus on the
primary function of project evaluation due to the competing demands on their
time.
13.     Outside the MPC, the technical Ministries were in different stages of
progress in building project planning capacity. They were not always able to
submit project proposals which contained enough pertinent information to make
a sound evaluation.
14.     The Government and the Bank were slow to recognize the need to address
th9 inst-tutional issues before improving the management of development
projects. One factor which finally prompted action was the poor performance
of the expatriate advisors after 3 years of involvement. In searching for a



way to continiue the project, the Government and the Bank agreed to hire a
consulting firm to carry out a diagnostic study aimed at:
a)  reviewing: (i) the current planning, finanicing, and
monitoring system of the investment program; (ii) the
role of the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation, and its
relationships with the Ministry of the Economy and
Finance,  and the  technical  ministries;  (iii)  the
information systems within the ministries and their
dependent public agencies with respect to project
cycle management;
b)  identifying bottlenecks in:   (i) the evaluation of
financing requests; (ii) the preparation and implemen-
tation of the capital budget, and (iii) project.
monitoring; and
c) proposing plans for an administrative reorganization
of MPC and MEF, including a better distribution of
tasks among their respective units.
15.     The study recommended:
a) the separation of the planning functions from invest-
ment programming: the plan should focus on medium and
long-term development issues, strategy, objectives,
and ways to achieve objectives; it should not include
the list of projects selected for financing;
b) the establishment of a three-year rolling investment
program which would include only projects selected on
the basis of evaluation from predetermined criteria to
ensure adherence of project objectives with those of
the plan. Its rolling nature should make it possible
to take into account new projects not considered at
the beginning of the program.  It will include only
the projects financed by public funds or public
enterprises;
c) linking the investment program with the national
budget to ensure that the projects selected in the
program are realistically implemented on the basis of
the financial capabilities of Government; and
d) clarification of task allocation within the Ministry
of Plan and the Ministry of Finance and also between
these two ministries.
16.     In the Ministry of Plan, the planning directorate (DP) was given the
responsibilities of planning and project evaluation. The former DFP became the
Directorate of project programming, financing, and monitoring. A new committee
made up of the representatives of the two directorates and the Minister's
office, the so-called Comite de Selection, was responsible for the selection
of projects once they were evaluated by the division of evaluation of DP. In



- 6 -
the Ministry of Finance, the reorganizaUion concerned only the Department of
Public Debt and Investments and consisted basically of regrouping the units
dealing with investment financing on a geographical basis into one division
(Division of Investment) responsible for managing all financing rtgardless of
its origin.
17.     The Government approved and implemented the study's recommendations.
The project financed the consulting services which assisted in the evaluation
of the portfolio of development projects constituting the first two year pilot
program covering the period 1985-1987, and the first three year investment
program (1987-88 to 1989-90).
Proiect Organization
18.     Project organization proved unsatisfactory for most of the project's
duration and wis the source of conflict between the Director of the project and
the heads of the other agencies supported by the Project. The Director of the
project, who was also the head of DPM, was seen by the other agencies as having
a purely administrative role.  It is apparent that when a project involves
several beneficiary agencies, designating one of them as project coordinator
is not the best solution. It seems more appropriate to give the responsibility
of project administration to an independent body.  This latter approach has
been adopted in the Development Management Project (Credit 1910-SE) which
continues the actions of the project.
Project Implementation
19.     Apart from implementing effectiveness measures ahead of the planned
date, project implementation was not completed on schedule. Planned for three
years, the project lasted seven years. This was due to the delay in realizing
the need to redesign the project and the time spent to carry out redesign
studies  and  to  implement  study  recommendations.    Another  factor  which
contributed to delays in completion was the underestimation of the time and
resources needed to build an effective public debt management system. Planned
for one year, the duration of the consultant services was seven years. As is
often the case, administrative and financial problems such as lengthy
disbursement and procurement procedures caused delays in project implementa-
tion.
Project Results
20.     The project was partially successful in meeting its objectives.  It
helped:
a) design and start implementation of a new system of
*public investment programming and budgeting; and
b) build an effective external debt management system.
21.     It was less successful in utilizing the contrats-plans process which
was only applied to six public enterprises rather than the ten planned at
appraisal.



-7-
22.     One factor which contributed to the limited success was the enforcement
role of the successive structural adjustment loans which included in their
action plan and tranche release conditions the adoption of an investment
program acceptable to the Bank, and the signature of the contrats-plans with
public enterprises before they can be eligible to use SAL proceeds. Access to
Paris Club debt relief was also a strong motivation for Senegal to improve its
system of debt management.
23.     Investment Programming and Budgeting System.  The three year investment
program covering the period 1987-1990, approved in July 1987, was the first
product of the new system.   It was one of the performance criteria and
condition of tranche release of SAL III and was judged satisfactory by the
Bank.
24.     Major improvements noted were:  (a) better consistency of the program's
size and composition with Senegal's development constraints; (b) more coherent
reflection of development priorities (productive projects and infrastructure
maintenance) in the allocation of resources; (c) more realism in the distribu-
tion of investments among sectors, with increased investment in the rural
sector, service infrastructure, rehabilitation and maintenance; (d) more
realistic investment programming which took into account the feasible rate of
physical execution of projects, and financing flows.
25.     The evaluation of the initial PTIP also noted that further progress was
needed; in particular, additional efforts would be required to deepen the
analysis of economic justification for these projects, to better quantify
recurrent costs and assess financing capacity, and to strengthen sectoral
institutions responsible for project preparation, evaluation, and execution.
26.     External Debt Management.  There were tangible results in the building
of a debt management system.  The system was, however, highly dependent on
expatriate assistance. It was implemented at the heavy cost of seven years of
expatriate services, and its maintenance still requires short-term consultancy
services so as to eliminate the high risk of break down. The Department of
Debt and Investments did not succeed in the timely build up of the capability
of the Senegalese team responsible for the debt management system, nor was the
need for technical assistance reduced.
27.     Specific achievements are as follows:   The Department of Debt and
Investment has developed information flows on external debt and has complete
records on public and public guaranteed debt; a computerized debt monitoring
system has been established to record and forecast these data; the departmental
staff has beer. trained to carry out the routine data collection and maintenance
function; information on debt necessary for the work of the government agencies
and for reports to the World Bank and the IMF reside in the DDI. The work of
the debt division is centered around a computerized system that maintains
records of loan commitments, disbursements and debt service payments. It can
calculate outstanding debt and arrears, and project future debt service
obligations. Information on loan disbursements can be organized by project.
28.     Parapublic Sector Reform.  The contrat-plan process which was applied
to BiX companies rather than the 10 companies originally planned at appraisal
brought little improvement in the relationship of the concerned public
enterprises with the Government. It gave company management more freedom to



- 8 -
achieve production targets set in the contract through the use of appropriate
tariff policy, finan-cial reorganization, investment and staffing.   In the
absence of an external source of financing, however, the Government was not
always able to fulfill its finanicial obligations.  It was, therefore, in a weak
position when it came to sanctioning company management for failing to meet its
production targets.
Proiect Impact
29.     The project contributed to the development of human resources in the
Ministry of Plan and the Ministry of Finance. At: the beginning of the project,
the Government recruited Senegalese University graduates as counterparts to the
expatriate experts. They were trained on the job, attended seminars in Senegal
and abroad and upgraded their skills in project planning and analysis. They
now occupy key positions in DP, DFP, and DDI. There is a risk, however, that
they will leave the services of the Government to join organizations which
offer a better pay and reward system. Some of them have already been recruited
by the private  sector  and the parastatals.    The project  also  financed
acquisition of computer facilities and contributed to widening the computeri-
zation of the investment programming and debt management systems.
Project Sustainability
30.     The Government and the Bank were aware that the achievements of the
project were just the first steps of a long process leading to an effective
system of economic and financial management. To that end, a follow-up action
plan was devised in the Development Management project (Credit 1910-SE). This
project is aimed at strengthening the key government offices responsible for
economic and financial management, developing analytical tools generating
reliable economic and financial data more rapidly and improving the formulation
of economic policy. It also addresses the difficult question of motivation in
the civil service, which is a crucial factor in the efficiency of government
offices.   The fourth Structural Adjustment Credit gives priority to these
issues in its reform package. Sustainability of the project is doubtful unless
these actions are successful.
Bank Performance
31.     The quality of the Bank's performance was uneven.   During project
preparation the Bank did not give proper consideration to the institutional
dimension attached to strengthening government offices.   In addition,  its
supervision efforts were insufficient in the first three years of project
implementation. In 1981 and 1982 there was only one supervision mission per
year from headquarters. In addition, the skill mix of the mission members did
not correspond to the subjects to be addressed. The mission findings focussed
their attention on minor administrative and financial problems at the expense
of technical issues critical to project objectives. After 1982, supervision
efforts were increased, and the Resident Mission, joined by a Resident
Economist in 1984, devoted more time to project implementation.   The link
established between the SALs and the project contributed to correcting the
project's supervision deficiencies.



-9-
Borrower Performance
32.     The Borrower did not succeed in translating its awareness of the need
to improve its economic and financial management and the commitment it showed
during the early stages of the project into efficient management of the
project. The implementation of the project was often hampered by a lack of
counterpart resources which caused delays in financing the salaries of the
Senegalese cfficers. The project management and the head of agencies supported
by the project did not design a monitoring tool to anticipate the difficulties
that the project might encounter. The project Director, who also headed the
planning component, did not judiciously use the diversified expertise made
available by the project.
Consultina Services
33.     The performance of consultants varied from one component to another.
In the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation, the resident expatriate advisors did
not succeed in getting the project officers at the Ministry to set clear
priority objectives in the work program; they did not succeed in keeping the
efforts of the DEPS staff focussed away from multiple tasks unrelated to the
project objectives. Moreover, differences in background, countries of origin
and working methods did not facilitate an integrated and cooperative working
relationship among them.
Project Relationship
34.     The Bank's relationship with the Government and agencies participating
in the project was good. The Government and the participating agencies were
very receptive to Bank advice, and the Bank's patience in agreeing to extend
the closing date of the credit was appreciated.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATlON
A. Related Bank LoanslCredits
----------------------------------------------------------__-------------______---------------------
Credit/Loan No.      Year of          Purpose of Project                   Status
Project Title      Approval
Credit 764-SE          1978       Assist the Government in         Completed in June 82
First Parapublic                   improving the management of
Sector Technical                  the parapublic sector
Assistance
Loan 1931-SE           1980        Support the implementation of   The Government was not able
Credit 1094-SE                    economic adjustment program      to implement successfully all
First Structural                  of the Government including      actions agreed and the second
Adjustment Credit                 management of the investment     tranche was not released.
and the parapublic sector       Closed in December 82.
programs
Credit A27             1986       Support implementation of the    Successfully completed in
Second Structural                 economic reforms of the          June 86
Adjustment Credit                 medium and long-term
adjustment program 1985-1992
Credit 1910            1988       Assist the Government to         Underway
Development                       build up capabilities in                                              °
Management Project                 strategic pianning, financial
and personnel management
=== === === == ===  c   == === ===  c === _== === == === ===  c === ==    = =    c =    = ==_ =   _-_ =-= c--__ ___ __



B. PROJECT TIMETABLE
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------__-----
PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------__-----
Item                          Planned date                    Revised date                     Actual date
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-----
Identification mission                           11179                                                             11/79
Appraisal mission                                -                                                                 3,4/80
Credit negotiations                              5/80                                                              5/80
Board approval                                   6/80                                                              8/90
Credit signing                                   -                                                                 10/80
Credit effectiveness                             1/26/81                  12/31/84, 12/31185,                      1/9181
12/31/86
Project completion                              12/31183                                                          6/30187
Credit closing                                  6130/84                    6/30/85, 6130/86,                      12/31/87
12/31/86
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Estimates                         Actual
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------__-----
IDA  (SDR millions)                                   4.1                             4.0
Government of Senegal                                 189                             232
(7FA million)
-------~: ==                        =  ==  =   ==  =  ==   =  = --- -- --



D. Credit Disbursements
--------------------------------------------------------__-------------------__-----------------
FY81        FY82         FY83         FY84         FY85        FY86         FY87         FY88
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----------------
(annual disbursements)
Appraisal Estimate                      0.60         2.20        1.50         1.00
Actual  (SDRIUSp exchange                            0.72        0.56         0.84         0.47         0.66        0.79         0.54
rate at the time of
disbursement)
Actual as  Z of estimate                0.00        0.33         0.37         0.84          ..           ..
Date of  final  disbursement:   June 8,  1988
==== _== === === _== ==== ==- === === === =======  ===   =c=  _==   ====   =_=  ===   =__  ===



- 13 -
- ------------------t-s---t-Xw--g---------------w----------g--------sS-X---"---------------
E.  COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS                                                  page 1
SECTION                          COVENANT                         STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
3.01.A        The Borrower shall carry out the pro ect             In compliance
in conformity with appropriate practices
3.0l.B        The Borrower shall op en a Project account and,    Partial compliance.
in addition to an initial deposit of CFAF           Delays occurred frequently
10,500 000, make at least quarterly deposits        in the replenishment of
sufficient to meet Project expenditures             the project account
3.02          The Borrower shall employ advisors, experts          In compliance
and consultants with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association
3.03          The Borrower shall employ by November 1, 1980,    In compliance
and maintain in position a chief for DPS
and a chief for the debt division and
implement a recruitment program of Senegalese
staff
3.04          The Borrower undertakes to insure or make           In compliance
adequate provision for the insurance of the
imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit
3.05          The Borrower shall furnish to the Association       Partial compliance.
the procurement documents in such detail            The reporting system was
as the Association shall request, and               weak.  There were no
maintain records and procedures adequate            regular reports on the
to maintain the progress of the project             status of project
implementation despite
the insistence of the
supervision missions.
3.05.C        The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to           Not in compliance. The
the Association a project completion report         Borrower has prepared two
not later than six months after the closing         partial reports for MPC
date                                                and DDI components only.
3.06.A        The Borrower shall take all reasonable              Partial compliance.
measures to facilitate the work of the              The 3orrower was not
advisors, experts and consultants employed          always able to manage
the advisors properiy
in order to obtain
maximum benefit from
their services.
3.06.B        The Borrower shall not amend or waive any           In compliance
of the terms and conditions of employment
of the advisors, experts or consultants
3.07          The Borrower in requesting the Association's        In compliance
agreement to any study included in part B
of the Project, shall furnish to the
Association the appropriate supporting
documentation
3.08.A        The Borrower shall furnish to the Association        In compliance
copies of the 6tudies included in Part B
...... ......... .. u  U.  Umu........mmm      um-.i.u   ma.     ..... w m m m u~im mn m   am......w .w



- 14 -
E.  COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS                                                   page 2
SECTION                          COVENANT                          STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
3.08.B        The Borrower and the Association shall               In compliance
exchange views with respect to the evaluation
and implementation of the recommendations
of the studies
3.09          The Borrower shall, at one year intervals            Not in compliance.
in consultation with the Association, review        The studies were not
the program of studies                              programmed and were
submitted to the Bank at
irregular intervals only.
3.10          The Borrower shall furnish to the                    In compliance
Association, in draft form, the contrats-
plans, take into consideration comments made
by the Association and appropriately reflect
such comments in the final version of the
contrats-plans
4.01          The Borrower shall maintain or cause DPS             Partial com liance.
to maintain separate records in accordance          During the Sirst two
with appropriate accounting procedures              years, the project
management unit failed
to set up an appropriate
accounting system. An
accounting expert helped
overcome the weaknesses
of the accounting system,
substantially improving
accounting and financial
management in the later
years of the Project.
4.02          The Borrower shall cause the vehicles,               Not in compliance.
materials and equipment to be adequately            Regular inspections were
maintained                                          not carried out during
project execution.
4.03          With respect to any proposed development             In compliance for (a)
project, to be carried out in its territory,        issuing the Circulaire.
the Borrower shall issue (a) a circulaire           Not in compliance for (b):
primatoriale pursuant to which the relevant         some proj ects were not
ministries, departments or agencies proposing        submitted to DPS.
any project shall (i) prepare economic and
financial data as reguested by DPS and
(ii) submit said projects to the DPS for
economic and financial analysis and (b)
following the publication of said Circulaire
take all necessary measures to ensure that
the provisions thereof are promptly enforced
4.04          For the purpose of strengthening its CNCA            Partial compliance.
and improving the efficiency of its                 The Circula re was issued,
operations the Borrower shall: (a) issue a          but the necessary
circulaire primatoriale pursuant to which a         follow up measures to
civil servant shall be nominated in all the         implement its provisions
ministries, departments, and agencies of the        were not adequately taken.
Borrower involved in the execution of ant
development project who shall be responslble
for monitoring the progress of contracts
reviewed by CNCA; and 0b) following
publication of the Circulaire ensure that
its provisions are promptly enforced.
nun                mm                       m                          a            an    unn..----w-----ssss-s--- -s-""Y ^ X" X "s """"



F. PROJECT STUDIES                                                                                                     page 1
Title                        Purpose of Project                  Status                Impact of Study
1. Livestock Sector Development   Overview of the livestock sector      Completed         Used as working paper for the VIfV
Plans and the donor meeting for
agriculture sector
2. Valorisation of the molasses   Identify the best alternative for   Completed           Findings of the study are a good
the use of molasses of the                             basis for private investments
Senegalese sugar company
3. Industrial incentives          Effective protection rate             Completed         Conclusions and recommendations
calculation                                            were used in the design of action
plan for the industrial policy of
SAL IV/III
4. Research on peat               Identify the possible use of         Completed          Conclusions of the .study were that i
peat discovered in Senegal                             peat can be used as fertilizer and
for energy
5. Survey on rural handicraft     Establishment of a data base on      Completed          A data base has been established
sector in Sedhiou              the sector
6. Peanut marketing               Identify the weaknesses of peanut    Completed          Findings were used in the
marketing system in order to                           agricultural policy reform
reduce marketing costs
7. Evaluation of input-output     Design a methodological tool for    Not completed;
table for year 1981            the planning process                 continued in
Development
Management Project
8. Urban Sector                   Preparatory study for the urban      Completed          Instrumental for the processing of
sector                                                 urban credit
*g=X=:zS5=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=a:=sS=_S--__=:S-=_C==-=======--=-__ =__ =



F. PROJECT STUDIES                                                                                          page 2
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-___--_-----_----------___----__--------_---
Title                     Purpose of Project               Status              Impact of Study
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__-------------_----_--_____--------------_----
9. Preparation and monitoring    Diagnosis of the investment     Completed        Conclusions and recommendations of
of the investment policy la   programming system of Senegal                    this study the basis for reform
of the investment planning system
in Senegal
10. Fiscal Land Register       Feasibility study of fiscal land    Completed      The study showed that there is
register in the Dakar area to                     significant possibility of
improve proper tax collection                     inreasing revenue for property
tax. Studies are continued in the
ongoing Urban Development Project
11. Filing System in the       Imp.ove the system of filing      Completed
Hinistry of Plan
12. Comparative study on tax   Provide information of tax policy   Completed     Conclusions were used in tax
policy in the neighboring    of the neighbouring centers of                   reform of Senegal in SAL III and
countries                  Senegal                                            SAL IV
13. Employment, productivity   Identify how to increase          Completed       Conclusions were used in the labor
and workers participation    productivity and promote employment              legislation reform under SALs
la Under this topic there are a set of 3 studies carried out by different consultants on the investment programming and
budgeting systems



G. MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Mission         Month/Year      No. of Persons /a   Days in the   Performance
field         Status
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__---------
Identification      11/79
AF PH DI OS lb
Appraisal           3/80-4/80       3 (RR,E,TA)             13
Supervision I       1/81            2 (RR,ARR)               5          1 1  1  1
Supervision II      11/81           2 (FA,LO)                2          2  2  1  1
Supervision III     6/83            3 (RR,E,TA)              5          1 3 2  3
Supervision IV      12/83, 1/84     3 (E,TA,DO)              7          1 2  2  3
Supervision V       6/84            2 (E,LO)                10          1  1 2  2
Supervision VI      5/85            3 (E,OP,E)              10          1  2  2 2
Supervision VII     3/86           2 (E,OP)                 10          1 2  2  2
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__---------
la RR - Resident Representative, ARR - Assistant to the RR, FA - Financial Analyst,
E - Lconomist, TA - Consultant, DO - Disbursement Officer, OP - Operations Assistant
/b AF - Available Funds
PM - Project Management
DI - Developmental Impact
OS - Overall Status



