Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2830-SE
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROiECT
FOR ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
August 7, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =            CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                 =            CFAF 210
CFAF I million          =            US$4,762
ABBREVIATIONS
CNCA       -       Commission Nationale des Contrats de 1'
Administration
CRI        -       Comite de Relance des Investissements
DDI        -       Department of Debt and Investments
DPM        -       Division of Programming and Monitoring
of the Department of Planning (MPC)
MEF        -       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPC        -       Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
Primature  -       Cabinet of the Prime Minister
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Senegal.
Amount:         SDR 4.1 million (US$5.3 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard IDA terms.
Project
Description:   The project would support and strengthen the Government's
ability to identify, select and prepare, monitor execution
of, and evaluate retrospectively its portfolio of development
projects. It would strengthen also the public debt moni-
toring, budgeting and forecasting capacity and improve
coordination between project needs and public financing. It
includes: (a) 11 years of internationally recruited advisors/
trainers (two advisors for 3 years; two for 2 years; one for
1 year); (b) about 68 months of short-term consultants for
training and analysis and 6 months of assistance for project
monitoring; (c) about 210 months of short-term consultants
for project identification, preparation and selection; (d)
about 4 months of short-term consultants to parapublic
enterprises; and (e) about 18 months of overseas training.
The benefits expected from the project include: (a) improved
screening of development projects to increase their benefits;
(b) the establishment of a system that will improve the
pipeline of well prepared and directly productive projects;
(c) better utilization of domestic and external resources
through improved project implementation; (d) obtaining
feedback from ex post evaluation to improve project design;
and (e) improved debt reporting, current expenditure control
and flow of funds analysis. Although there is some risk in a
project of this type, where the benefits will depend largely
on Government's dedication to analyze projects and follow
through with the recommendations of the planner, this risk is
considered acceptable because of the Government's strong
commitment to an improvement of its public investment perfor-
mance through improved planning, project preparation and
supervision capability.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
US$ Thousand
Estimated Cost 1/           Local               Foreign             Total
Consultant services          170                 1,570              1,750
Internal and overseas        240                   490                720
training
Local staff costs            350                      0               350
Equipment and vehicles        50                   250                300
Operating costs                50                  140                190
Studies                      240                 2,160              2,400
Base Cost                  1,100                 4,610              5,710
Contingencies
- physical                    -                    30                 30
- prices                    130                   340                470
Total project cost         1,230                 4,980              6,220
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local           Foreign          Total
IDA                        0.3                5.0            5.3
Government                 0.9                  0            0.9
1.2               5.0            6.2
Estimated Disbursements                  US$ IMillion
IDA   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
Annual                               0.6    2.2    1.5    1.0
Cummulative                          0.6    2.8    4.3    5.3
Estimated Completion Date:   December 1983
Staff Appraisal Report:        There is no separate appraisal report
1/   Project costs are shown net of taxes and duties.
i1B. Totals miay not add due to rounding.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal for SDR4.1 million (US$5.3
million equivalent) to help finance a Technical Assistance Project for
Economic and Financial Planning. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980.
The following paragraphs reflect the conclusions of this report. Country data
appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal, at the western extreme of the African continent, has
three-quarters of its territory in the Sahel zone which suffers from low
rainfall and periodic droughts. In the traditional sector of the economy,
the mainstay is millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally poor,
and periodically food shortages occur in the months between the sowing and
harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of them fed in
the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only marginally. Land
distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable land
is becoming scarce, but in the extreme southeast some good land is still
available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the
capital, a city of about one million inhabitants, the economic base of which
consists of excellent port facilities, an important industrial sector, and a
small but fast-growing tourism industry. With a population of 5.2 million,
Senegal's per capita GNP for 1978 was estimated at US$340.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased at about the same pace as population, at
a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per annum. Two factors were responsible for
this situation. Firstly, with independence, Senegal lost its privileged
position as the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt to
its reduced economic, administrative, and political position. Secondly, in
the latter part of the decade, production of groundnuts (its principal export)
fell, due to unfavorable weather and declining export prices.
5.        In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was hit by sharp
fluctuations in volumes and prices, and even with the achievement of higher
rates of both private and public investment, average annual growth was not
raised above the earlier 10 years' level. Thus, output and incomes were



-2-
depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a
century, which brought a decline in real national income. Thereafter, when
weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural population was
substantially restored, both agricultural and industrial production increased
markedly. However, in 1977 the country suffered another severe drought, the
magnitude of which is reflected in the variations in groundnut crops; from a
historical record of 1.45 million tons in 1975/76 (more than double the
average for the 1968-73 period), output fell to less than 0.6 million tons
in 1977/78; it recovered to about 1.0 million tons in 1978/79, but the
most recent crop fell again, to less than 0.7 million tons. Despite these
wide fluctuations in agricultural production, industrial output (excluding
groundnut processing) did grow at a fairly even rate of about 5 percent a
year. Thanks to the recovery from the earlier droughts, real GDP increased
at about 5 percent between 1973 and 1977, but in 1978 it is estimated to have
declined by 10 percent reflecting the effect of the 1977/78 drought, and,
after recovery in 1979, is expected in 1980 to remain about 4 percent below
its 1977 level due to the bad crops in 1979/80.
6.        The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by
price fluctuations of Senegal's major export and import commodities. In 1974,
the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, because of exceptionally
high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity. However,
in 1975 export prices for both phosphate rock and groundnuts declined sharply.
The recent increase in oil prices brought a further deterioration in terms of
trade, causing a loss in income of roughly 5 percent of GDP compared to the
favorable year in 1974. These wide international price fluctuations, together
with the above fluctuations in output, had serious consequences on domestic
prices, public finance and balance of payments.
Public Finance
7.        The Government has responded with flexibility in adapting its
financial policies to changes in the economic environment. In 1974, the
retail prices for rice, sugar and groundnut oil were raised by 40 to 90
percent in order to reduce consumer subsidies that had ballooned following the
price hikes for these commodities on the world market. Government also
brought producer prices for groundnuts closer to world prices which were
particularly high at that time. The loss of revenue to the Treasury because
of this latter step was expected to be compensated by additional revenues from
the phosphate mine, in which Government increased its participation as well as
levied an 80 percent tax on excess profits, which accrued from the quadrupling
of export prices of phosphates in 1974. In 1974 and 1975, Government did
indeed receive high revenues from phosphates amounting to roughly US$45
million a year, or 12 percent of tax receipts.
8.        These steps led to a net increase in public savings after debt
service from a yearly average of US$25 million during 1971-73, to US$46
million during 1974-76. This high level of public savings was doubtless an
important factor in stimulating Government to increase public investment
outlays from a yearly average of US$24 million to US$49 million during the
same two periods. In addition, however, Government purchases of equity and
lending to domestic enterprises increased sharply, mainly because of increased



-3-
participation in the phosphate mine and the acquisition of two foreign-owned
public utility companies. The combined capital outlays of the Government were
thus substantially in excess of public savings, and were financed in large
part through medium-term foreign bank loans. As a consequence, foreign debt
service carried by the Central Government increased from US$8 million in
1972/73 to US$38 million in 1975/76, representing about 10 percent of Central
Government revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976 eliminated Govern-
ment revenues from this source.  In the following year, Government increased
taxes, limited recurrent expenditures, and undertook some new commercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear that the 1977/78
crop would fail, Government endeavored to avoid famine in the countryside by
importing more cereals and absolving farmers' debts; however, the added
financial burden which these measures entailed was accompanied by reductions
in capital expenditures, which were financed through heavy commercial borrowing
amounting to US$122 million in 1977 and US$200 million in 1978. As a conse-
quence, in 1980/81, when grace periods are over, debt service obligations of
the budget will reach about US$150 million (or 18 percent of Government
revenues).
10.       In August 1978, the National Assembly was called from summer recess
to approve a new fiscal package amounting to US$20 million in additional
revenues. The 1978/79 budget presented a tax reform that aimed at removal of
tariff distortions and administrative deficiencies, but which also increased
Government receipts through reductions in exemptions. Further tax measures
are in preparation for the 1980/81 budget which will bring the ratio of
Government receipts to GDP to 29 percent, as compared to 19 percent in 1970/71
and 23 percent in 1976/77.
Balance of Payments
11.       The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and Senegal's net foreign assets fell to minus US$15 million.
In the following years, the deficit on current account was reduced, but
outflows of private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enterprises
continued, and net foreign assets declined further to minus US$48 million at
the end of 1975. Since then, the situation has not improved. In 1976, the
State Marketing Board purchased a record groundnut crop at the high producer
prices established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power into the
economy and adding to the domestic demand resulting fron the Government's
monetary and budgetary policies, which in turn put added pressure on imports.
However, because both groundnut and phosphate prices were at considerably
lower levels in 1976, export revenues stagnated; even though there were price
declines of the same order in some of Senegal's food imports, the net effect
on the terms of trade was heavily negative. Although the 1976/77 groundnut
crop was good, the balance of payments stayed in deficit. The 1977/78 drought
caused a loss of US$200 million in groundnut revenues, but the Government's
commercial borrowing limited the decline of net foreign assets to US$93



million. In 1979, the groundnut crop was good and Senegal received an alloca-
tion from the EEC STABEX Fund of US$64 million as a payment for the shortfall
in groundnut exports in 1978, but strong import demand, the terms of trade
loss from the hike in oil prices, and the fall in groundnut prices. led to a
further decline in net foreign assets of at least US$90 million 1/, reducing
the level of these assets to minus US$236 million at the end of the year.
These negative reserves were financed by outstanding drawings on the IMF
of US$52 million, by a change in Senegal's position in the monetary union,
and through short-term foreign borrowing by the commercial banks.
12.       Although exogenous factors such as droughts and variations in world
market prices explain in part the fall in net foreign assets since 1973,
it is also due to more perennial factors such as sluggish growth of export
volumes, slow drawings on public aid commitments, increasing debt service
related to heavy reliance on commercial funds, and excessively expansionary
monetary and budgetary policies. Senegal's basic problem has been the failure
of production and exports to respond to higher investment levels and other
expansionary policies.
Stabilization Program
13.       In December 1979, during his annual speech to the National Assembly,
the Prime Minister explained the urgency of modifying prevailing tendencies
in the economy, and outlined a medium-term stabilization and rehabilitation
program. This program was informally but extensively discussed with and
broadly supported by the Bank and the Fund. The main objectives are to
increase substantially the level of domestic savings, especially in the public
sector, over a period of six years, with the first two years focussing mainly
on stabilization, and the following four years (which would coincide with the
Sixth Four-Year Plan) on the achievement of a still modest   higher rate of
economic growth of 4 percent a year.
14.       According to the stabilization plan, public savings after debt
service would increase from 1 percent of GDP in 1978/79 to 3.5 percent of GDP
in 1985, mainly through a freeze of recurrent expenditures in real terms. Any
shortfalls below this target are to be compensated by new tax measures and
increased savings from public entities such as the stabilization fund. This
savings target would allow the Treasury to contribute at least 15 percent to
financing of the public investment program in the near future, to be improved
to 25 percent by 1985. The 15 percent minimum contribution serves a planning
function and is likely to be exceeded in favorable years, but may fall short
in unfavorable years, such as in 1977/78 when it dropped to a negative level.
In such cases, the additional requirements in foreign finance should be on
concessionary terms.
15.       Increased savings in the private sector would be encouraged by
higher interest rates on deposits and savings certificates, and through the
1/   The most recent estimate records a decline in foreign reserves of
US$120 million in 1979 due to an acceleration of imports in the last
quarter of the year.



-5-
allocation of cheap housing loans based on earlier savings performance. In
rural areas, the savings of farmers will be mobilized. However, the bulk of
private savings will have to come from private enterprises. To achieve this
goal, the Government proposes to ease price policies and to impose higher
levies on non-invested profits. A very tight credit policy, in particular for
non-productive Drojects, will evidently increase the need for own funds in the
private sector.
16.       Recognizing that the savings drive will weaken domestic demand and
that production costs in Senegal are too high to meet foreign competition,
the Government is taking steps to provide more protection to the domestic
producers by raising import duties while achieving greater uniformity in their
application, and by subsidizing export industries with excess capacity. This
policy allows for the fact that parity of the local currency is fixed in the
framework of the monetary union to which Senegal belongs and that the CFA
franc has de facto appreciated over time relative to most non-franc curren-
cies, especially the dollar.
17.       The parapublic sector (public enterprises and mixed companies)
represents a serious drain on Government finances and will be placed on a
sounder footing through the conclusion of medium-term program contracts
("contrats-plan") between the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and
individual parapublic enterprises, with the aim to reduce present levels of
budget support. The proposed project would finance assistance for preparation
of these contracts. More scope will be given to these enterprises to adjust
tariffs to more economical levels.
18.       The stabilization program imposes ceilings on commercial borrowing
abroad and restricts its use to projects that generate a sufficient cash flow
to service such debt, and abolishes Government guarantees on loans to private
and mixed enterprises unless such guarantees are required by the statutes of
the lending institution. These measures will bring a highly desirable reduc-
tion in Government's exposure to commercial risks.
19.       To achieve the objectives of the stabilization plan, a recent
administrative reform has placed all public finance functions under MEF.
Of particular importance is the centralization of debt management in MEF
(previously a responsibility split between the Minister of Finance and the
Prime Minister), which will have its own tax resources and bank account, and
an improved system of financial planning and control.
20.       The trend in wages in the modern sector remains a matter of some
concern. After sizable wage increases in 1979, Government decided as of
January 1, 1980, to raise the minimum wage by 25 percent; and Government
salaries were increased from 34.4 percent for the lowest paid workers to 3.6
percent for the highest paid, to be followed by another increase of 7 percent
as of July 1. These increases are meant to compensate for past inflation
and to cushion the effect on real incomes of the stabilization measures.



-6-
Prospects
21.       The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for development of areas less
afflicted by drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. 'This policy
will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its climate and
world market prices, and reduce the heavy burden of food imports.  To stimulate
agricultural production in the Groundnut Basin, which has not substantially
increased since independence, Government proposes to overhaul the state-
cooperative system, trimming the heavy bureaucracy and transferring economic
initiative back to the farmers. Agricultural research will be oriented more
on farm systems than on individual crops, with the objective of lowering the
costs of the agricultural techniques propagated, and better adaptation to
farmers' needs. The Government also aims at a modest expansion of phosphate
mining, and development of light export industries and tourism; moreover,
contracts have been signed for construction of a ship-repair yard, and plans
for a phosphoric acid plant are in an advanced stage. However, with limited
prospects for export growth in the groundnut sector, and because of the modest
scale of the export subsidy scheme, no spectacular improvements in the
balance of payments can be expected. Government counts heavily on the
implementation of a number of large investments, either in irrigation to
diminish the heavy dependence on rice imports, or in export-oriented manu-
facturing industries. However, these investments have long gestation periods
and involve the Government in substantial risks, and a cautious view of the
long-term outlook is therefore warranted. Even if economic growth could be
raised to a modest 4 percent a year between 1982 and 1985, the annual growth
rate between 1977 and 1985, because of the decline in GDP in 1978 and 1980,
would probably not exceed 2.4 percent a year, which is still not above popula-
tion growth.
22.       Government intends to rely more on the private sector for investment
in industry, tourism and other productive activities; however, it will take
some time before this new emphasis will be reflected in the composition of
investments. The private sector has a low propensity to invest because of
Senegal's relatively high production costs, and (after a period of active
state intervention) often insists upon Government participation or loan
guarantees for new ventures, thus reducing the size of its risks. Mloreover, -
some public investments are needed in view of the country's critical depen-
dence on state-financed irrigation.
23.       The stabilization plan will help Senegal to overcome the effects
of the recent drought, the higher oil prices, and the high debt service
built up over the past five years. Its strict implementation is therefore
crucial for Senegal's prospects for economic growth and creditworthiness. To
help Government achieve the structural reforms needed, the proposed project
would expand ongoing technical assistance to the parapublic sector, help
Government in establishing systems to monitor national savings, assist in
strengthening the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation to improve the development,



- 7 -
evaluation and choice of projects, and support the administrative reorganiza-
tion and strengthening in the Ministry of Finance.
Creditworthiness
24.        The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services increased
rapidly from less than 7 percent until 1976 to 13 percent in 1979, and an
estimated 16 percent in 1980, a level which should not be exceeded in
Senegal's current economic circumstances.  This steep increase is mainly the
result of a rise in the share of commercial borrowing from about 25 percent of
total borrowing during 1973-76 to an average of 56 percent during 1977 and
1980.  Thanks to considerable restraint by the Government on commercial
borrowing in 1979 (US$9 million), and the termination of repayments on earlier
commercial credits, debt service will level off in the early 1980's. In the
medium-term, expected improvement in export performance related to better
crops, a few large export-oriented projects, and implementation of the export
incentive scheme is expected to allow Government to keep the debt service
ratio around 15 percent of export earnings.
25.        The weak balance of payments' position is dominated by the need to
strengthen Senegal's foreign reserve position. In the short term, Senegal can
afford low reserve levels through its membership in the West African Monetary
Union which provides for pooling of foreign reserves, and whose currency is
guaranteed unlimited convertibility by the French Treasury.  Moreover, as the
experience in 1978 has shown, JMF and STABEX facilities provide a buffer for
the periodic drops in export revenues linked with droughts and fluctuations
in world market prices. However, if Senegal maintains negative balances for
an extended period, it could weaken the monetary union whose existence is
a cornerstone for Senegal's creditworthiness. The impact on the balance of
payments of the oil price increase and the bad 1979/80 groundnut crop to be
sold at low prices would widen the overall balance of payments' deficit to
some US$250 million in 1980 and about US$100 million in 1981. Since Senegal's
debt service burden is already extremely heavy, full Eurodollar financing of
these deficits should not be envisaged. Foreign donors should therefore be
prepared to raise the percentage of foreign finance in their projects, and
consider program aid in the first instance to help cushion the impact of
these developments on net foreign assets, as well as to support the structural
reforms being undertaken as part of the stabilization plan.
26.        With implementation of the Government's economic stabilization
plan, Senegal would remain creditworthy for some lending on IBRD terms. The
Government has demonstrated its commitment to development by expanding its
public investment effort substantially between 1970/71 and 1977/78, and has
shown adequate capacity to respond to the problems which its vulnerable
economy is bound to encounter periodically. Senegal's prospects for long-term
diversification and growth are modest, but essential to provide a reasonable
basis for social and economic development. Its access to short-term financing
facilities and membership in the West African Monetary Union also reduce the
risks associated with economic fluctuations. However, lenders (including the
Bank Group) should provide a large part of their assistance on concessionary
terms in order to avoid a further rapid buildup of debt service, and should be
prepared to finance a considerable part of the local costs of projects.



-8-
Moreover, in the coming two years, financial assistance of a program nature
and close monitoring of the economy will most likely be required to support
the Government in its structural adjustment policies.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
27.       The Bank Group has had 45 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding amounts to US$279.8 million, including 24 IDA credits, 14 Bank
loans, three blends of Bank and IDA funds, four IFC operations, and one blend
of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits, and IFC investments as of June 30, 1980, and notes on the
implementation of ongoing projects. Physical execution of these projects is
progressing reasonably well, although some operations are affected by the
shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing difficult
public finance situation, as well as by lack of qualified local staff for key
positions. But institutional bottlenecks in several sectors constitute the
largest obstacle to efficient project implementation. The Government is well
aware of the need to reduce delays caused by these problems, and particularly
of the importance of assuring good management supervision of projects in all
sectors.
28.       In this respect, the ongoing Parapublic Sector Technical Assis-
tance Project initiates and implements measures necessary to resolve on a
sectorwide basis some of the issues regarding the financial management and
Government control of public enterprises and mixed companies, particularly
those that are channels for Bank Group assistance. The project comprised a
three-year program to assist Government in improving the efficiency of
Government organizations responsible for strategic analysis, operational
supervision and formal financial control over the parapublic sector and to
upgrade the auditing, financial management and accounting procedures for the
sector as a whole and for a member of the most important public enterprises
and mixed companies. The project provided for expatriate experts and an
increase in local staff for Government control organizations; for auditing,
consulting services and training for four public enterprises and auditing of
three mixed companies; and training for staff in Government control organiza-
tions, for Government representatives acting as directors of parapublic
sector companies and for accountants. The project, at its halfway stage, is
now progressing reasonably well after a difficult start due to problems in
recruiting consultants and later problems concerning adequacy of project
management, subsequent to which the project director and deputy were replaced.
In the proposed project, more direct Bank involvement in recruitment would
help reduce these difficulties and steps have already been taken for early
identification and recruitment. The substantive components of the project
are progressing quite well, although it is too early to assess their impact.
The project is in compliance with Credit conditions. The proposed project
would assist public enterprises in preparation of their medium-term program
contracts (para. 17) which will specify in greater detail government-enter-
prise commitments and expectations.
29.       In addition, the Government has created in late 1978 an Inter-
ministerial Committee (Comite de Relance des Investissements - CRI) which
works closely with foreign aid donors, to expedite preparation of new



- 9 -
investment projects, and to identify bottlenecks in project execution and
take remedial action. The work of this committee has already begun-to
produce some positive results and would be strengthened in the proposed
project through reinforcement of its secretariat.
30.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1977-81 will stay at around 12 percent, of which roughly 54
percent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed
*        debt was 18 percent in 1979, and will (after falling slightly in 1980-83)
slowly start to surpass that level, reaching about 20 percent in 1985. The
Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase from 3.8
percent in 1979 to about 4.9 percent in 1985, a rise which is mainly due to
the increase in Bank loans from 32 percent of the Bank Group's total outstand-
ing and disbursed funds to Senegal to about 42 percent by 1985.
31.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal concur with the
Government's strategy and fall under five main headings. First, priority
continues to be given to rural development, including development of irriga-
tion in the Senegal River Valley Region, rainfed agriculture in the well-
watered southern regions of the country, intensification of groundnut
production and diversification into new crops and new regions, national
projects for improvement of agricultural research and for reforestation, and
a Small Rural Operations Project which was approved by the Executive Direc-
tors earlier this year. As in the past, agricultural lending over the next
few years is expected to exceed one-third of the total. Second, the Bank
Group has supported diversification of the economy by lending to the growing
industrial sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Develop-
pement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance
company established with Bank Group assistance in 1974, and through an
ongoing project for development of tourism infrastructure. Third, Bank
Group projects have supported modernization and expansion (where economically
desirable) of the country's infrastructure. In the recent past, a Second
Aviation Project was approved in FY79 and a Fourth Highway Project was
approved earlier this year. Also, an engineering project approved in FY79
finances studies and technical assistance for water supply and sanitation
development in eleven secondary centers, and is expected to pave the way for
future Bank Group involvement in that sector. Fourth, assistance is being
provided under the Third Education Project approved in FY79 to help the
Government re-orient and expand the country's education system at all
levels. Bank strategy in these three projects has focussed on: (a) meeting
the need for trained high- and middle-level technicians and managers in the
modern sector and in agricultural development activities, by supporting
technical training in secondary schools and specialized institutions for
technician training; and (b) supporting institutions responsible for the
development of primary education. Finally, continuing assistance is being
provided to help Government increase its absorptive capacity for planning,
executing, and managing development projects through institutional support
within individual Bank Group projects, and through broader efforts such as
the Parapublic Sector Technical Assistance Project. The proposed project is
intended to reinforce the development and use of these ongoing efforts
within the technical ministries through strengthening the role of central
ministries and making better use of improved analysis in the technical



- 10 -
ministries. Several Bank Group operations, notably in tourism, telecommuni-
cations, port infrastructure, loans to SOFISEDIT, and in airport development,
have the additional merit of generating revenues for the Senegalese Treasury.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
32.       In spite of the external resources available to its development
effort, and although per capita official development aid has been about $40
in most years, Senegal has not achieved real increases in per capita income.
This can be attributed partially to its poor resource base, severe climatic
conditions to which its predominantly agricultural economy is subjected,
deteriorating terms of trade, and the continuing difficult public savings
and public finance situation. However, other important reasons for the
country-s poor economic performance stem directly from weaknesses in the
system for the identification, selection, preparation, execution and ex post
evaluation of development projects.
33.       Senegal's economic development is guided by four-year national
plans which are prepared by the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation (MPC)
following a lengthy process of consultation with technical ministries,
parapublic sector companies, and regional and local administrations. With
the help of technical assistance provided since 1972 by the UNDP, the plans
have proved to be useful guides in identifying sectors which should receive
priority in the allocation of domestic and external resources. But the
plans have so far served only as general guidelines, since they are not
prepared on the basis of sound sectoral analysis which could effectively
identify the types of investments which could contribute most fully to
development. Nor are the plans based on adequate economic evaluation of
proposed projects. The Government's central planning mechanism has not been
effective in evaluating the merits of individual projects. There has,
therefore, tended to be an over-dependence on infrastructure operations
which are relatively easy to prepare, but which are often not entirely
productive. A pilot unit within the Division of Programming and Monitoring
(DPM) of the Planning Departmemt in MPC has, over the last several years,
initiated formal economic screening techniques and project monitoring
s3stems. At present it has neither the staffing nor the powers to require,
or to assist in, data preparation by the appropriate ministries. Its focus
on better analysis and monitoring has, however, been generally well received
by the other ministries and the formalization and expansion of the pilot
unit under the proposed project is expected to receive adequate cooperation
from other ministries.
34.       This situation is similar for the completion phase of the project
cycle where the lack of an institutional capacity to assess the impact of
completed projects has meant that the planning process does not benefit
from lessons to be learned from previous projects.
35.       The current Four-Year Plan (1977-81) reflects Government's increas-
ing commitment to finance development in the directly productive sectors,
especially in rural areas, and to focus planned investments on benefitting



- 11 -
the lower income groups and the poorer regions of the country. To help
achieve these objectives, Senegal has been able to attract substantial
external aid from a large number of donors, most recently from lending
agencies of the OPEC countries. However, some of these funds have not been
effectively utilized, particularly in the case of donors which depend exclu-
sively on national Governments to offer well prepared projects ready for
financing.
36.       A further constraint in the development process is that committed
funds from external donors as well as from the Government itself do not
disburse as rapidly and as efficiently as expected. This situation is due
in large part to a Government administration which has an overwhelming
variety of procedures for contract approval and overall financial management.
One result of this heavy bureaucracy is that project execution often suffers
severe delays (with concomitant increased costs), and new funds are conse-
quently slow to be committed. While some control against the possible
misuse of Government funds is fully justified, Government has recognized
that certain procedures should be reviewed to increase their efficiency.
37.       Government has become increasingly concerned about its poor
performance in managing the project cycle and aware of the need for improving
project identification, selection, preparation, execution and evaluation.
Over the past two years a number of measures principally to improve project
execution has been taken (often in consultation with, or with the informal
assistance of the Bank Group) including, in addition to the DPM pilot
unit:
(i) establishment of small groups responsible for project
preparation and analysis in technical ministries and project
agencies;
(ii) allocation of highest priority in the investment budget
to providing counterpart funds for projects financed by
external sources, a measure intended to accelerate the
utilization of donor commitments;
(iii) creation of the Comite de Relance des Investissements (CRI)
within the Prime Minister's Office to help improve project
execution by unblocking specific administrative bottlenecks
which are brought to its attention with DPM as its secretariat;
and
(iv) organizing a series of training sessions for local staff
working in project agencies to familiarize them with Govern-
ment and donor procedures, and thereby attempt to accelerate
the various steps in the project cycle.
38-       The above measures have had some success, indicated best by dis-
bursements for Bank Group projects which, as a percentage of appraisal
estimates, have increased steadily from about 30 percent at mid-1978 to
about 55 percent at end-1979. It is recognized that this figure cannot
in itself be used as a measure of speedier execution, but it does give some



- 12 -
indication that performance is improving. Other donors have also ex-
perienced some improvement in their disbursement rates. Across sectors,
however, performance varies widely, with disbursements ranging from 66% for
education and technical assistance to 31% for industry and tourism. The
proposed project will have industrial, other productive and export-oriented
sectors as primary targets for assistance.
39.       The above must, however, still be considered only the beginning of
what will undoubtedly be a long process. The immediate need is to consoli-
date the measures already taken and planned into a coherent system, and to
extend its coverage in the Government.
40.       Government has recognized the improvements brought about by its
actions thus far to improve project implementation and by the benefits
from, for example, planning cells in technical ministries financed by the
Bank and other donors. Government, therefore, wishes to expand the more
rigorous technical and economic analysis already initiated in DPM and some
ministries to all projects of significant size during project identification,
preparation and selection. MPC has hitherto been unable to play a strong
control role in project selection and preparation principally because of
insufficient analytical capacity due to lack of staff and resources. The
strengthening of MPC would be the primary focus of the proposed project.
41.       In the framework of the medium-term stabilization and rehabilita--
tion program the Government has set itself a number of macroeconomic targets
that will have to be reached during the coming five years in order to reduce
the balance of payments' deficits and to bring the economy to a trend of 4
percent annual growth. In view of the relatively high debt service on
foreign loans, Government intends to put strict limits on further commercial
borrowing and base the financing of its investment program, to a larger
extent than in the past, on concessionary capital flows and increased
domestic savings. The implementation of this policy will rest to a large
extent on the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) which needs additional
specialized staff to fulfil this task. Since no Senegalese economists with
this type of experience are available, Government has asked the Bank for
assistance in financing expatriate consultants who would train Senegalese
officials and develop the analytical ability required. Partially as a
result of the Parapublic Sector Project, the Government intends to establish
medium-term contracts ("contrats-plans") between parapublic enterprises and
Government, along the lines of those developed in Europe, setting out the
responsibilities, commitments and expectations of both parties, particularly
those relating to management's objectives and results and Government finan-
cial obligations. A model "contrat-plan" appropriate to Senegal has been
developed and, in the context of the proposed project, Government has
requested continued Bank assistance for finalizing "contrats-plans" for
about ten key enterprises in the para-public sector, which have been selected
in agreement with the Association.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project was identified in November 1979 following
a request by Government. Subsequent preparation was undertaken by Govern-
ment with th^- assistance of the Bank's resident mission in Senegal, and the
project was appraised in March 1980 by a mission composed of Messrs. J.
Brown, I. Harvey and S. Amar. Negotiations were held in Dakar on June 2-4,
1980, with a Senegalese delegation led by Mr. Abdou Malick Sow, Director of
Planning.  A Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this report.
There is no separate appraisal report but further details on the proposed
technical assistance project are in Annex IV.
Project Objectives
43.       The project would support a three-year program aimed at: (a)
strengthening and improving Government's ability to identify, select,
prepare, monitor the execution of, and evaluate retrospectively its port-
folio of development projects; (b) strengthening Government's public debt
monitoring, budgeting and forecasting; and (c) specifying in greater detail
the relationships of parapublic enterprises with Government. The project
would assist principally the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation (MPC), the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), the Office of the Secretary General
of the Presidency and the Primature. The overall project objectives would
be: (a) to increase the benefits of development projects by improving
project preparation, selecting better and more directly productive projects
and improving project implementation; and (b) to improve the process of
Government financial control. Primary emphasis would be to improve projects
in the directly productive and export-oriented sectors.
44.       Specifically this project would help:
(i)  improve the effectiveness of MPC to:  (a) evaluate the
economic benefits of development projects; (b) improve the
quality of project identification and to reinforce MPC's role
in planning and project selection and preparation; (c)
monitor project execution and expedite solving implementation
problems; and (d) begin a pilot program of ex post evaluation
of completed projects;
(ii)  improve control and monitoring of macroeconomic performance;
*                          train local staff in project preparation, execution and
evaluation;
(iii)  speed up project implementation by, inter alia, upgrading
the Commission Nationale des Contrats de l'Administration
(CNCA), within the Office of the Secretary General of the
Presidency, which is responsible for contract review and
processing for approval;
(iv) assist the Ministry of Economy and Finance (IMEF): (a) to sup-
port the operations of the reorganized Department of Debt and



- 14 -
Investments in order to provide timely historical and pro-
jected information on debt statistics and Senegalese funds
provided for projects financed by Government or external
sources; and (b) to strengthen the Departments of Budgeting
and of Forecasting; and
(v) assist the Primature in the preparation of "contrats-plans"
for the parapublic sector.
Project Description
45.       The project would comprise:
(a) about eleven man-years of advisory/training support of which:
(i) eight man-years (a senior economist/group leader, a
senior industrial economist and a senior social services
economist) would strengthen the Division of Programming and
Monitoring (DPM) in MPC; (ii) one man-year (a senior public
finance economist) to strengthen the Debt Division of the
Department of Debt and Investments (DDI) in MEF; and (iii)
two man-years (an advisor on "contrats-plans") in the Prima-
ture for preparation and implementation of medium-term
"contrats-plans" for about ten key parapublic enterprises;
(b) about 68 man-months of short-term consultancy services
would provide analytical, management and training support to
DPM (38 months), to DDI (16 months), to the Department of
Budget (6 months), and to the Department of Forecasting (8
months); a further 6 months of short-term consultants
would help DPM monitor and supervise the proposed project;
(c) about 210 man-months of consultancy services to assist DPM
and other relevant ministries and agencies in the identifica-
tion, selection, and preparation of new projects and evalua-
tion of completed projects in the sectors at which the
project is aimed;
(d) about 4 man-months of short-term consultancy services to
assist the Primature in specific matters relating to "contrats-
plans"; and
(e) about 18 months of overseas training for DPM technical
staff and Primature and MEF senior staff and provision for
additional local staff and for equipment, materials, vehicles
and operating costs required to support the project.
46.       The project is expected to be implemented over three years within
the period 1980/81 to 1983/84.
Ministry of Plan and Cooperation (MPC)
47.       Although the technical ministries are, and would continue to be,
responsible for project preparation, the responsibility for selection of



- 15 -
projects and the preparation of development plans rests with MPC. Within
MPC, the project would strengthen DPM, a division of the Planning Depart-
ment. As noted earlier, DPM has hitherto been unable to play a strong role
in project selection and preparation of development plans, principally
because of insufficient analytical capacity due to lack of staff and resources.
The role envisaged for DPM, addressed in the project, would: (a) reinforce
and extend the use by technical ministries of more rigorous project prepara-
tion and selection procedures, with assistance for those technical ministries
which do not yet have functioning planning units; (b) improve data collection,
*          processing and analysis for improved monitoring of project execution; (c)
initiate ex post evaluation of projects with feed-back into the planning
cycle; and (d) assist MPC and MEF in developing sound criteria for sectoral
allocation of the development budget.  The pilot unit in DPM (para 33) has
already prepared detailed guidelines which specify the financial, economic and
summary technical data required for their analysis.
48.       DPM would be strengthened by extensive internal training and
assistance to be provided by the advisors and short-term consultants.
Initially there would be a substantial backlog of work required to undertake
more rigorous analysis of the existing portfolio of proposed projects.
This economic and financial analysis would relate to project ranking and
selection for development planning; it is expected, however, that DPM will
need to provide substantial assistance and guidance to some technical
ministries for preparation of basic data. Beyond this, DPM would implement
an extensive program of external training and seminars in methods of project
identification, preparation, evaluation and monitoring. This would be aimed
at assisting the MPC and existing planning cells in other ministries as well
as for assistance to such ministries in setting up new planning cells, for
training of regional staff and project directors involved in project prepara-
tion and implementation and for coordinating data collection needs and
information dissemination between DPM and other ministries (para 57). DPM's
strengthened role is expected to reinforce the planning and preparation
carried out by planning cells in technical ministries. DPM would, as a
principal element of its output, provide the Comite de Relance des Investisse-
ments (CRI), for which it is the secretariat, with project monitoring data
and general recommendations for improving implementation. DPM would implement
actions requested by CRI to improve specific project execution.
49.       Based on the successful organization of the pilot unit (para 33),
DPM would have four sector functional units dealing broadly with: (a)
industry; (b) social services; (c) infrastructure; and (d) agriculture.  Of
the three advisors/trainers to be financed for DPM under the project, the
senior economist/group leader (who is already in post) would advise and
assist the DPM chief and staff on the infrastructure sector and would
provide overall guidance to the advisory group, the senior industrial
economist would advise and assist on the productive sectors and the senior
social sector services economist would be similarly responsible for the
social sector and would coordinate all DPM internal and external training
activities (proposed terms of reference for the two new positions are in
Annex IV, Appendix 1). Assurances have been obtained that Government would
retain the advisors/trainers by November 1, 1980 (para l(a) of Schedule 4 to
the Credit Agreement). French technical assistance is currently providing



- 16 -
one expatriate advisor for the agricultural sector. Assurances have been
obtained that Government would maintain employment of the senior economist!
group leader and the agricultural sector advisor during the project (para
l(a) of Schedule 4 to the Credit Agreement). A service section would
provide documtentatilon, statistical and data collection and processing backup
to DPM. Short-term consultants would be employed to provide technical advice
for project analysis and for designing and implementing internal and external
training programs. The project would also finance overseas training in
specialized subjects (see para 57). The project would include equipment,
materials and vehicles for DPM.
50.       The project would finance about 210 months of consultants princi-
pally for the identification, selection, preparation and analysis of proj-
ects not yet identified as well as some assistance for ex post evaluation.
Although the use of these funds would be at the discretion of the DPM,
primary responsibility for project identification, preparation and feasibi-
lity studies would remain with the technical ministries. At least half of
the consultancy funds would be utilized for studies aimed at improving the
pipeline of projects in the directly productive and export-oriented sectors.
Criteria for use of these funds have been agreed (Annex IV, Appendix 3)
(Schedule 5 to the Credit Agreement).
51.       To assist in ex post evaluation, Government would begin a pilot
program of associating DPM and technical ministry staff with World Bank
(and other donor) project completion and Operations Evaluation Deparment
missions in Senegal.
52.       To emphasize the importance of DPM and to give authority to their
strengthened role, assurances have been obtained that Government would
ensure, through an executive order (Circulaire Primatorale): (a) that all
development projects costing more than CFAF 100 million (US$500,000) would
be submitted to DPM for economic and financial review, to ensure consistency
with criteria laid down by DPM; and (b) that ministries undertaking prepara-
tion studies for such projects would be required to prepare the economic and
financial data requested by DPM (Section 4.03 of the Credit Agreement). The
executive order would also provide that projects smaller than US$5 million
would be handled on a no-objection basis with DPM allowed two weeks for
comments. Issuance of the executive order is a condition of effectiveness
(Section 5.01 (b) of the Credit Agreement).
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)
53.       Department of Debt and Investments.  Government has decided to
merge the Department of Investments (which participates in donor negotia-
tions and prepares disbursement requests) with the Debt Division to form the
Department of Debt and Investments (DDI). The Debt Division has previously
lacked the resources to carry out its functions of monitoring Government
debt and guarantees and of making projections. The result has been a
significant and largely uncoordinated increase in Government debt obligations.
The DDI will help to ensure that Government commitments to borrow money in
future would correspond more closely to project needs and would remain
within prudent limits. The project includes expatriate technical assistance



- 17 -
for one year to assist in improving debt reporting operations in DDI and
short-term consultants for the project to provide technical and training
assistance plus advice on organization and staffing of the new department.
The proposed terms of reference for the advisor are in Annex IV, Appendix 1.
The project also would include incremental Senegalese staff for the DDI and
equipment, vThicles and materials.
54.       Budget Department.  Since the savings behavior of private agents
will show, at most, only gradual improvement, Government has put the empha-
sis of the economic adjustment policies on a substantial increase in budge-
tary savings. Also, since tax pressure is already relatively high, Govern-
ment has decided to increase budgetary savings by putting a ceiling of 10
percent on the annual increase of its recurrent expenditures, an increase
just about equal to annual inflation. However, such a freeze on recurrent
expenditures in real terms will place considerable strain on the budget
preparation process. Government's public investment program will create a
continuing need for new recurrent expenditures for maintenance or operating
personnel for the new assets; freezing the level of overall recurrent
expenditures would, therefore, imply substantial cuts in existing expendi-
tures. Present emphasis of the budgetary process in Senegal is on screening
new expenditures. For some years now, percentage cuts on existing expendi-
tures have been practised, but may not provide an optimum distribution of
limited public funds. The Minister of Finance has, therefore, asked the
Director of the Budget to prepare objective criteria by which to judge the
level of the existing recurrent expenditure in different fields, inter alia,
through international comparisons. To help execute these studies and train
Senegalese officials, the project would finance about six months' consulting
time of an already selected public finance expert in the Budget Department.
55.       Forecasting Department.  Although improved budget control will
contribute most to public sector savings, Government has taken a number of
policy measures, and is considering others, to improve the savings perfor-
mance of other sectors in the economy. At present Government has limited
analytical tools to monitor the impact of these policies. The national
accounts are produced with a delay of three years and the financial studies
are limited to the capital flows that pass through the treasury. The
Minister of Finance has asked the Director of the Forecasting Department to
set up a flow of funds analysis that would cover the entire economy, a
statistical analysis that would enable him to forecast the savings perfor-
mance of the different sectors in the economy. In order to set up this
analytical ability, the project would finance about 8 months of consultancy
over three years.  A consultant has already been selected.
Secretary General of the Presidency and Other Ministries
56.       Senegal has established a lengthy procedure for contract award and
approval which helps to ensure that domestic and foreign resources spent by
the Government are properly and efficiently utilized. Although these pro-
cedures should be maintained, they have caused in some cases delays in
contract approval. The project would include strengthening of the National
Commission for Contract Approval (CNCA) in the Office of the Secretary
General of the Presidency to speed the review of bidding documents at an early



- 18 -
stage to determine their adherence to the appropriate procedures and to speed
the approval of contracts. The project would provide for an additional local
staff position and minor equipment and materials to improve the efficiency of
the CNCA. A training program would be implemented to increase the familiarity
of Government services and project agencies with Government procedures.
Several ministr4es now have full time staff to process contract documents,
and this has already speeded CNCA review. Assurances have been obtained
that Government would issue an executive order (Circulaire Primatorale)
pursuant to which civil servant would be nominated in all ministries and
project agencies responsible for monitoring the progress of contracts and
ensuring that Government procedures are followed from the beginning of the
contract approval cycle (Section 4.04 of the Credit Agreement). Issuance of
the executive order is a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01 (c) of the
Credit Agreement).
Training
57.       In addition to the advisors in DPM and DDI, who would also be
responsible for training, the proposed project would include funds for
short-term consultants, equipment, vehicles and materials necessary to
prepare in-country seminars dealing with project identification and prepara-
tion, execution and ex post evaluation, and contract approval procedures of
Government and donors. About 24 seminars occupying 75 seminar-days have
been planned by DPM for the first year of the project and would reach about
600 people. These seminars would be intended for: regional planners (9
seminars, 180 people); planning cells in technical ministries (5 seminars,
100 people); project managers (2 seminars, 80 people); and "information-users"
for those using DPM analytical output (8 seminars, 230 people). Similar
follow-up seminars would be planned for the second and third years of the
project. The advisors in DPM would conduct the seminars and would be
responsible for preparing the training packages of which the seminars would
be one part. The advisors would be expected to have finalized details for
first year training within six months of arrival. They would utilize for
training, as required, the short-term consultants noted above. The project
would finance about 14 months and 4 months of short duration overseas
training for DPM technical staff and for senior level civil servants respon-
ble For the implementation of the "contrats-plans", respectively, in
pecialized subjects where training is not available in Senegal. The
p-oposed project would finance periodic short trips, as agreed by the
Association for the consultants and Department Directors of Budget and of
Forecasting for macroeconomic discussions with the World Bank Group and the
nternatlUnal Monetary Fund, in order to increase exposure of Senegalese
-Staff to a larger group of financial interlocutors.
larapublic Sector
58.        l proposed project would finance an advisor for about 2 years
and about 4 months of short-term consultants to assist the Primature and
parapublic enterprises in developing and implementing detailed "contrats-
plans" for about ten key parapublic enterprises. Assurances have been
obtained that the advisor would be employed by November 1, 1980 (para 5 of



- 19 -
Schedule 4 to the Credit Agreement). Assurances have also been obtained that
the proposed "contrats-plans" in draft form would be furnished for review by
the Association and that final "contrats-plan" would take into account com-
ments made by the Association (Section 3.10 of the Credit Agreement).
Project Organization
59.       The project is expected to be implemented over a three-year period.
Each ministry, the Office of the Secretary General of the Presidency and the
Primature would be responsible for the implementation of its components.
Overall administration of the project would be coordinated by the DPM which
would also record funds committed and spent. In order that DPM can carry
out its proposed work program effectively and implement its internal and
external training programs, assurances have been obtained that the two
professional Senegalese presently in the DPM plus two others returning
from overseas training in mid-1980 would be progressively increased to
seven professional staff by November 1, 1980, and to eleven by August 1,
1981, plus adequate support staff and professional Senegalese staff for the
DDI would also be progressively increased to seven by November 1, 1980 and
to twelve by August 1, 1981 (Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement). Govern-
ment has furnished to the Association a program for recruiting the appro-
priate number and level of Senegalese staff which are essential to the
success of the project, including the chief for DPM and the chief for the
Debt Division of the DDI. Assurances have been obtained that a chief for
DPM, who would be responsible for overall project coordination, and a chief
for the Debt Division of the DDI both with qualifications, experience and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, would be appointed by
November 1, 1980 (Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement). In order to facili-
tate project implementation assurances have been obtained that Government
would establish a revolving fund of US$50,000 at the Treasury. Govern-
ment would provide a posteriori control of expenditures made through the
revolving fund. Opening of the account at the Treasury and the initial
deposit of US$50,000 is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(a)
of the Credit Agreement). The account would be replenished by Government at
least quarterly on the basis of supporting documentation for expenditures
incurred and project forecasts. The services receiving assistance under the
project would prepare quarterly reports on project execution which would be
discussed by the CRI and submitted to the Prime Minister, to the appropriate
coordinating and technical ministries and to the Association. Included in
the project would be six months of consultants to assist DPM in monitoring
and evaluating the project and its training aspects every six months during
its execution and making recommendations for improving the transfer of
skills to Senegalese staff.
Costs and Financing
60.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is estimated
at US$6.2 million equivalent including physical and price contingencies with
a foreign exchange component of US$5.0 million (80% of total project costs).
The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 4.1 million (US$5.3 million equivalent) would
finance the entire foreign exchange component of the project and 25% of local



- 20 -
costs amounting to US$0.3 million. Other local costs estimated at US$0.9
million equivalent would be financed by Government. Retroactive financing of
about US$75,000 is recommended to meet recruitment costs of technical assis-
tance experts in order to accelerate project implementation and to finance
experts urgently required in the Budget and Forecasting Departments of MEF.
Details of project costs are given in Annex IV, Tables 1 through 8. The cost
of consultants, including allowances and travel, would amount on average to
about US$10,000 per month for advisors and US$11,500 per month for short-
term consultants.  Physical contingencies of 10% have been used only for
equipment, materials and vehicles. Price contingencies of 10% per annum
have been included for advisors, consultants, local salaries, equipment,
materials, vehicles, training and scholarships.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       The selection of advisors and consultants would be in accordance
with Bank Group procedures. Assurances have been obtained that all the
terms of reference, qualifications, conditions of employment and contracts
for consulting services would be subject to prior approval of the Association
as would the list of studies to be financed with the use of those funds
allocated for project preparation (Sections 2.02 and 3.07 of the Credit
Agreement).  It is expected that most of the technical assistance would be
provided by foreign consultants. However, the Association supports Govern-
ment's wish to use qualified local consultants as much as possible, either
independently or in collaboration with foreign firms. The proposed credit
would finance 100% of consultants' costs. Equipment, materials and vehicles
would be procured through competitive bidding following local advertising
procedures which are acceptable to the Association, because of the small
size and timing of individual purchases. For contracts under US$10,000,
local shopping would be employed (Schedule 3 to the Credit Agreement).
Proceeds from the proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) for advisors and consultants, overseas training: 100%
of total expenditures (SDR 1.8 million - US$2.3 million
equivalent);
(b) for studies: 100% of total expenditures for consultant
services (SDR 1.84 million - US$2.4 million equivalent);
and
(c) for equipment and vehicles: 100% of total expenditures
(SDR 0.23 million - US$0.3 million equivalent).
SDR 0.23 million (US$0.3 million equivalent) would be unallocated.
Project Benefits and Risks
62.       The major benefits of the project would include: improved screen-
ing by MPC of development projects to increase their contribution to produc-
tive sectors; the establishment of a pipeline of well prepared and directly
productive projects which can be submitted to donors, including the World
Bank Group; more efficient utilization of domestic and external resources



- 21 -
due to increased supervision of project implementation; and the start of ex
post evaluation which should lead to changes in project design and execution.
The project would also aim at improving the matching of the financial needs
of projects and available resources by better management of Senegal's
external debt and domestic resources.  The introduction of "contrats-plans"
for about ten. key parapublic enterprises would be aimed at improving the
efficiency of those enterprises through improved definition of their operating
environment with Government and providing specific criteria against which
performance can be measured. While initially dependent in part on expatriate
technical assistance, the project's strong training component would help to
transfer the appropriate skills to Senegalese staff in order to give a
permanent character to the improvements that the project would introduce.
63.       The largest risk of the project would be that Government's present
emphasis on more productive projects and the importance of project execu-
tion would not be maintained, despite its improved record over the past
several years. Government's request for this project; the support it has
received at the highest levels of Government; and the critical importance
of the stabilization program launched by the Government (para. 13 et seq)
which the project would help implement indicate that this risk would be
small and acceptable. Technical assistance projects inherently include the
problems of recruiting suitable advisors capable of cooperating with and
training local staff, and of finding qualified Senegalese counterparts. To
reduce this risk and to improve the quality of consultants the Association -
would assist Government in locating and employing qualified consultants.
Several suitable consultants have already been identified and tentatively
agreed with Government. With regard to local staff, the Association would
request confirmation from Government that it would staff the project ade-
quately (para 57).
Measurable Results of the Proposed Project
64.       At the end of the three-year implementation period, it is expected
that the project would have helped Government to improve, inter alia, the
following: (i) a system for developing a pipeline of well-prepared projects;
(ii) an information system which can spot poor project execution and a set
of procedures to intervene effectively to improve implementation; (iii) a
system of debt reporting and forecasting as well as improved programming of
development expenditures; (iv) developed "contrats-plans" for about ten key
parapublic enterprises; and (v) the establishment of an ex post evaluation
capacity.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Senegal and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 22 -
66.        Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are men-
tioned in the text and are listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional con-
ditions of effectiveness are: (a) that the revolving fund referred to in para-
graph 59 has been opened with an initial deposit of US$50,000; (b) that the
executive orders referred to in paragraphs 52 and 56 have been issued.
67.        I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed De-
velopment Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 7, 1980



- 23 -                                          Annex 1
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEIGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                      - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL            196.2
AGRICULTURAL      81 * 0                              MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OP SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 180.0       240.0    340.0                  228.9                   726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     121.0       139.0     181.0                 80.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      3.4         4.4       5.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.6        23.7      24.9                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        24.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       17.0        22.0      28.0                 27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     43.0        55.0      67.0                 82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.0        42.9      44.3                 44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                         54.0        54.2      52.8                 52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. ANID ABOVE                  2.0         2.9       2.9                  2.8                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.4       2.6                  2.7                      2.7
URBAN                              3.5         2.9       3.2                  6.8                      4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0         47.0      49.0                 47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     27.0        23.0      22.0                  19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.0       3.2                  3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
UJSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         125.0        83.0     104.0                 91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REOUIREMENTS)                   92.0        95.0      95.0                 90.2                    92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          62.0        64.0      64.0                 53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0        20.0      19.0                 18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     41.0        35.0      32.0                 27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0        40.0      42.0                 45.3                     50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           93.0          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..       37.0                23.2                     31.0
URBAN                               ..          ..       68.0                58.0                    66.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       23.0                16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                 28.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 67.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        .                     ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         22376.0     16673.0   15704.0              30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4110.0kc   2684.0    1608.0                5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            840.0       810.0    900.0                1198.9                  1141.5
URBAN                            281.0       356.0
RURAL                           2001.0      1171.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        22.2      26.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..       7.6
RURAL                               ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



-24 -                                      Annex I
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATB)IG
HDST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  l     1 970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 27.0        43.0      47.0                 57.7                    61.7
MALE                 36.0        53.0      57.0                 74.2                    69.2
FEI1ALE              17.0        33.0      37.0                 54.1                    51.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0        10.0      11.0                 10.0                    20.6
MALE                  4.0        15.0      16.0                 13.7                    29.2
FEMALE                2.0         6.0       7.0                  7.i                    14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 23.0          9.0      10.0                  6,8                     7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             ..        45.0      49.0                 45.0                    36.6
SECONDARY                         34.0        29.0      22.0                 25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        5.6/d      10.0      10.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0         9.0       9.2                  3.6                    38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        40.0        68.0      64.0                 31.5                    83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.4       0.4                  1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  6.0         5.0       7.0                  4.6                    24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       0.7                   ..                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1590.3      1911.8   2232.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  39.7        39.1      38.0                 33.5                    38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.6        79.7      77.0                 80.7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.4         6.6       8.0                  8.1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.6        44.3      42.8                 4Z.2                    38.8
MALE                                56.7        54.5      53.0                 55.1                    48.4
FEMALE                              36.8        34.3      32.8                 29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.1                  1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.5/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3. 2je
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.4/.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                138.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      82.0                 86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     194.0                107.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
a=ong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1964;  /d African population only;  /e Population.
April, 1980



Annex 1
- 2 5 -Patge 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although the data are drues from sources generally judged the east eutiorltatite and reliable, it ahonld alas be nnted tiht they say eno be inter-
natiunaily -onPeebls b-ecu.se of the bark of *tanduedized dof-itio-s and  -noepta used by different  -oantries in tIlecting the datn.  The data see, nate-
theles-, usetfl tC deasribe orders of magnitude., idioate trends,  nd ohurareeti-e  -taine najat diifferetnos betueenncoutries.
The refereoue groups are (1) the sae country group of the subjent tannery t nd (2) f    nounnry group aith soeabat high.er average inco=e thna the .nuntry group
af the subjoor ouatty  Meseept far "Capital Sutplu: Oil Efparrts" group where "Middle  enin-e North Afrtin  asnd Middle East" is theses because of treneges
seeio-raieuesl affinitiet). ln the refseteet  group data the averages are popubltiona  eighted ath=etio  enans for eath indi-ator sod ehown onei  uhet at
least half of the couetesee in a graup has dute ftr thut indioatoe. Sitre the -overage of -ouotries among the indicotprs depeeds on the -vailability of
data and is not uniform, ctutios  -sat beeset- ised in relasing averages of one indioator to another.  Thyre averages are only -sefun inotp-arig the value
of one in.diater atua time assn  the c-oetrp and oeferece grpup :.
LAND AREA (ohous.ad 9q.kt.)                                                              ioyultion  -r  Ph-snucno- fopu,latio  dnlided by eusier as pta-ttutg phy-
To.t.  - Tutrl trace a.e..oesprisiag land urne  nd itlaoduatees.                          .lolava .an..  .oa  ron a nodnoul atnal at  _ _unersity levol.
Agricultural - Estimate of agti-nlt-rl arena sed toeporarily or petPa. ently           fopulation net Nursing Petrno  - Paynlatuan divided by eu=ber of pranticnl g
fot  -oss, pastures, market nod kitthes gardens or to lie fallow; 1977 data,.          mle -nd female graduate threes, pouctical n-_ses, Ind assisraet purses.
PoplaionOt  fteinild    etl.s yea t` -l - Prys.inrio  (ennui,
GNP PEt CAPITA (US$) - GNP pet -apita astiares at -arteet market prints, cel-               urban, tnd minI) dinided byhpeit tepon'a   nuehe  of hospital heds
tainted by same .osversion method as W-eld Bntk Atlar (1976-Il baui); 1960,               available in pablin nad private gepetal and spectalzeed hospital ad re-
190,1 and 1978 dat.                                                                      habilitation testers.  hospitals ate establishbests pe-easestly staffed
by as li-c one physin ian. Estubiahesets pso-fieig priesipaily ...stodial
ENERGT CONSUMsPTION PER CAPITA - Annual tossueptios of  -o -iettlal erergy  tcoal           oats   e st et ioid ed.  total hospit.als, however,  isoide how7th and medi-ul
and lignito, petroleum, uatnuea  gas and hydro-, nuolear and geother=l elet-              tenters nor petFe  ently stuffed iy a phymiciae (hut by a madi-al a.seietat,
trioity) id kilageass of noal equitsleot pet napita; 196f, 1971, and 197-  -urse, midwife,  tct.) uhinh off-er i-patient a-temesdstiot and provide 
data.                                                                                    limited teoge of medi-lo  f-oilities.  for  tatis tinal ptrp tees utbat hopi-
tale isolade WHO: yrlipal gon-ra  and opo,lalloed b-mpitlsl, nod meal1
POPULATION AuD VITAL STATISTICS                                                             tlhopial         strut at hon yitols end rediol trd maternity centers.
Tntel Puoplation, Mid-Yoar (=illions) - Ai  of July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1978            Adim.snons per Hospital bed - Tntel nutber of adtissio- s to or discharges
data.                                                                                   Crot hspitals dividod by the number of bedt.
Urban P-puIltion (fesrent of toral) - Rlten of urban to total populatio;
different defisitious of utbno areas map affert eo=parobiliny of dots hyOUSIN
-ntsgoonutrios; 19ff, 1990, ond 19ff fern.                                              Averegs Site  of  -ouseohld (parsons pee h.osebol  - total, urbon, -nd rural-
Pooait 'olotisA hnu-eild  -oeis-  of a grasp atof                                                                           vial  who shr. ine    uatt
P-ulriete  io peas 200D1 - Currant popuiation pt-jentrons are bused on 1980            Ad hteio  anei maul.  A benedr or ledger may at may  -ot bh  lncluded in
total population   by age anndsan  their maroally and fertility rates.              the ho-sehold foe statisticol porpotos.
P-njeotio  ptarsmtaete  far mortality rates co=peise of three levels essa-         htge umbe of y o   pe              m-    ,r   -  aug
inbg 1fe expectancy at birth inoroe.ing with ceuntry's pee capita it.eote           bveta  nutbt p ersospna   Per nil tbas  and rutel oo.uptsd conventional
level, -nd female life expectanpy stsbilifiog at 77.5 yease.  The paea-              duellings. tespectivtly.    -ellingsexlde  nton-psownpent sotutesoand
teteos for fertility  eate ales hase three Istels assuming decline is                unetnpied pat.
fertility aceotding to in-e 1evel and  peso family penig pett            o         A    n so El         yitr.t of d                -, d e l -
Ench tounrry is thes ussigned ens of thea  rite co-binatio-s of  -etaliyi                               lings  it       tiity  ie litg quartes asd tuta
and ternility trends for peojection purposes.                                        of total, arias, and ruti deellings e-spetively.
Sainar..y ,opulation - lo a utstlo.aty population there iS so groith stno-
the birih oats is equal te sie death rate, end also the ag  stucturere-    EDUCATION
=ains constant.  This is achievod auly nftne  fettility  totes decline to          Adlusrtd Enroll=tct Ratios
the teplace=eut level of unit ert  rpeprduon-ne rate, when .aah generation            Pri.ary school - total, male ans female - Gosta totrl, mule end female
of -osat  replaces itself etectly.  The stationary population asio was                  enrollmost of all ages st rho ptim.ay betel as perentages of trepeotive
estimated 00 the basis of the ptajected oharacteristics of the population               prfim.y sehbas-age populati.s; eorpally inoludes childrep aged 6-11
in the vent 2G0O, and the sate of decline of ftertility tate to replaeo-                yenar  but adjrsnnd for diffeoef lengths of priesty edunnefes; for
meet btel .                                                                              cousnelesoi~    1   an...th i -alesl educatIon e_reles_  ma  .. eeed bli pre.tee
lest stationary nopuierion  is reaohed - The yeet ohen stationary population              aloneens  pupils ate  bel1ow n ab-ove the sffiictl school age.
aoie baa bees reached.                                                                Sedondary school - total, male aed female - Ceaspored as above; secondary
Population Dersitv                                                                          education requires at lsean fear pears of approved prIm'ary idstutctit;
Pee   . kh. - Mid-yeas population  per squate kilometer fllD  he-tates) of                provides generb, vonetisnul, or teshter tr-ising ipstracriots fon pupils
tota l aea.usuall  of 12 to 11 psurs af uge; -tosses peedseoe course  us  ge.ettlly
Per as. kh. as Iicultal lud - Copated no above f-or ugicultural land                     eob Ldef.
Populatiot Age Steucture (percent) - Childeen (0-14 years), esrkirg-age (15-                       netbeloal, ter              to  other peogea=s ehinh opetate ledepen-
64 years), and tensed (65 yeats end aver) an p-ecetengos of =id-y-ar papa-                dently or us departments of seco.dery ibstitutious.
lation; 1960, 1971, and 1978 darn.                                                      Puoul-teh-er ratio-peiearv. end secondary-a1tal studeetsenrolled is
Population Grown  lane (peetent) - trtal - Aonnet greuth rates of total mid-                petmary end secondary levels divided by nubers of seacherskn tie
year poplais for 1950-60, 19A-7, nd 1970-M               .                                      P     g le
Poysutlos Growth lute ftstoatt) -..ra.-Annual groan   tes of arias pepu-                  Aduit lite--ny  nute (f_rcrt) - Literate adults (sbls    toed and urite)
lutioss for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                                es t percenage of tota  adult population aged 15 Yests and over.
Crude Bigth Rfte (pe- thousand) - Annual live biths pee thousand of mid-year
populutine; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                              CONSUMPTIlON
loade Disuh Rlte (per thousaed) - hnnpal death  per thousand of mid-yeat                Passenger Cats (pe rtoussnd rpalarion) - Passenger ones compets- mates
population; 1960, 1970, end 1978 data.                                                  cans slatneg less than eight pA euse; secludes umbulen.es.  h-arses and
Gross Resroduction Rlas  - arage number of daughte-s ar            12n will heat in       silitosy vehioles.
her normal reproductite peeid if ahb  experelnces present age-apeeffin  for-         Radio Reosivers (pet thousand Populatior) - All types of r.eeivees fto  rafb
titty rtest  usually five-year averages soding is 1960, 1970, and 1971.                 broadcasts no gereral pubbit per thousand of populatien; excludes asl-
Family Planning - A.e.toa.  Anen.l I (thousands) - Annual camber of aoceptats             tssed -eteivees in countries and it pears mien h egiue rasnu  of radis sons
of birth-cntoetl devines under auspices of -ntioena  famply pl-ning program.            was in effent; data fo  receont years may ast be -o=porable mince east
Fa= ly Plasele-IUsers  eeri (pe ses  f muorned ummed ) - Peerentage of mased              nounnrIes abolished ilnensi=g.
onen of child-beating age  (15-44 years) sin ass birth-contrnl devices to            ft Rvecvers fotrtousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast te
all married e-mes is sume age group.                                                    general publit pet thousand population; eutlades oninceesed TV receite-s
flot AID NuriCrCEIINis o-tneie  eed in years eAse tegiat-ueic  of TV sets wee it effet.t
Codas of fond Productios per Casies f1969-7110011 - Inde- of per "'pita annual            i=wcpuperiCegaldi=s y(petr tbsus  ra nd   uses thet.ed   irpu-
prod-ction of all feud tom-dities.  Productien sol.ades seed and feed and               tieotio" diyoted pgie aily to ree  newdisp gaper", def    Iti. ..efe idn%du
is no calendar  eear basis.  Ceseodities toter primaty goods (e.g. s=ggrca=e           tn be "daily" if it appears at leest fetr ine  asset.
iostead nf augur) uhinh ass edible and  -ntsis =urtie=ts (e.g. eoffee end             Cinema Ans=al Atteedners Pet Casira pet Year-lBased on tie sumbee of
toe  use excluded).  Aggregate production ef sarh  -ountey is bused ot etckers sold during the year, includindead=sss te deive-is cing=as
national average ptodeces poitc  weights: 1961-65, 1970, and 1978 date.                 aed mEbile u.its.
Par capita suolo of oalories (Percent eofrenuiremaets) - Conpated feat
energy equiv'alent of net food tuppi2g available it  unastry per tapita          LABOt POtC
pot day.  Available supplies semprise d-mestie pr-fuotios, imports less             TotAl Labor yoece (thougands) - Eco=omioally actite persons, including
exports, Insd oheges in stook.  set supplies exclude animal  feed,  seeds,            arsed fotres sod unemployed bat e..ludieg hossewive-, mtudeste, ett.
quantities used is food preneseiag, and losses it distributio=.  Require-             Definitt .ie.   ario=s countriestarst- e  o    o-p-ble; 1960, 1970 and
meets woes estiseted by PAO based 01 physiological seeds foe sr-         ti-          1978 dat
vity and health  osidering e.viroumertl tgepeaturt, body weights, age              Feseie (pe-n..t) - FPmale labor force as pe-oe-tage of total lebot forte.
owd see distributio   of populatiow. owd ablowing 10 petoest fun noste at           fgriculture foetneet) - Loi  fore io fns'mhg  forestry, buntg and
bousehold level; 1961-61, 1970, ssd 1077 date.                                        fishitg ns peroontage of renal l.boe force  196g, 1970 end 1978 data.
Pet capita supply of "Irstie (gres  oet day) - Proteti  co=te-t of per capitn         Indusrry (oeroess) - Labo  forte in =ini=g, co=sttuctio=, mgneoftnutig
oet supply of food per fop.  Nee supply of food do defieed on abate.  Re-             end electricity,  taror a=d gfs as perneetage of teten  labor foreo; 1960,
qeiremeute f-r all  -oustries established by UAil   peovide for mimumso               1970 and 197f d
1ileos--e of 60 gras of totak protein pee day a=d 20 grams of ani-       nd         Peenitisanino  lane f'edent) - total, male. aed ienulm-PFarticipatio= or
yulse prorsie, of which 10 grFPa should be animal peroti=.  These steed-              unnlvlry  rates are nobpated us total, male, and female labe fa-or  as
ards ore l.owr thus rinse of 75 geese of totel prtetin and 23 gtees of                poocosnages of roral, male a=d female population of n1 ages .espoetively
a=imal protein es en average far the world, peoposed by 0A0 is the Thied              1960, 1900, ned 1911 dunn.  Theme are ILl's partbcipanos tesorefleoting
World  Peed inreep  1961-65, 1910 aed 1977 data,                                      a ge-sen struocte of thb populatio=, esd lesg ties  trend.  A few esti-
per capita  protein surely from aeipal and  sles -       roteis supply of food de-      mtae  ate ftee  entensi soseces.
rived frp= a=imals and pulses is grams per day; 1961-65, 1970 -nd 0977  dana-   Ocoom,ie Depeedenoy Ratio -  etim  of populatiot Podet 15 nod 65 sod oved
*                                Child (sees 1-4) Mttsality Rgts (pfe  t=nussed) - An=ual deaths par eha Ised nn           en the ennui labor iorce.
age group 1-4 years, to children is this ago group; .or most develepigocoun-
rbies dose derived fine life tables; 1960, 1970 -nd 1977 drat.                      INCOME DISTTIBUTION
percentage of Private lotone (both in cash nod kind) - Received by riohest
HEALTe                                                                                       I peroent, richest 20 percoet, poorest  -h percent, sod poorest 40 pOsce.t
Life Exnecta=cv at Birth (vya-s - Avera ge =u=b- of y--r of life regai.i=g fbe
at birth; 1960, 1970 ned 1978 dana.
Infant Moonaliny Rae (vet thousand) - A==ual deaths of infants under One year   POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
at ago per thousand lies bieths.                                                      Estimated Ahsolute Povesny lecame level IS          S e    pta) -urtan  d oral -
osess to Safe Wetee (percent of toplulatio) - total, arias, and total -                   Absolute  poverty incooe lets1 Os thor ino.me level helo  which a sinimal
Numbi  of people (total, urban, and rural) with cessoi.bleatosse to safe                =utritionall.y adequ.t diet plus essenftil eno-food retuiremats is  t
sneer s_pyly f(itludes tetentd outface  -artes or -e-rsoted but u-nto-wi-sted           offeedablb.
ost  sari as ith- fite  pr-tected bteheblee, springs, and snitesy sells) as            satirated Relative yovett Isooe Level (USS per capito) - arbas a=d total -
pseosengane of lisei  respective pepulutless.  }=a= urban area a public                 Rural reslrive poverty itncom  level is nee-thied of average pet napeita
tsuntsnn or standpost located ens mute than 100 meters teo=mahouse may is               presonee  Intone of oh e counery.  Uriane level is derived teem rho natal
contsidered  aisibeig slebin reosonable access sof thai hoone.  In rural areas           level sinh ad) asomeor foe tighes tout of living in uriane areas.
reatsonble access would imply that tie housewife or members of the housrehld          lestle,ttd topulation Colon Aitolure Poverty Iscose Letel fpersent) -seibne
An nour inns to upend a disproportionate parte of the day is fetching tin               and total - Percente of popalation furanbu  and ruxral) who ate "absolute poor",
tasilyrs tarot toeeft.                                                                                                             2
Acceasseoiatrete liroosal Inertest of oosnlnti   -totai. seiane  aned
rueal - tunis- nf people (Caata, urbat, and ielJ s oerved by excblia
dibpoonl as peroesengrsoaf their respeotive populations.  tunreto dn-                                                 Ecoonomi aned Eocil Data Division
pesal nay inclade the collection snod dntpoaal, unci or olinhucttreatoen,                                        Econnomin Analysis a=d Pro)ettnnnu s0eattment
t hutatneceaand  ests-s. uer by  athe-botne             feote    h.. or  she use of                                                 AprI.,  9 -.
pit pentneu uan sumular bsteallatuene.



SLN8tAL: K- E(JIC90  I13VE1.OMN3T 3TA SKLEETtg
A.t-If3                                    - ,I.t                ~            FrIcinl                                    GrWth 8*te.  MX                                          i hr. In C
1970     197      1972    1973       1974     19751  fff11         1977     1978      1979        1980   1981   1982   1995                 1970.7$   i1975-'    19279-1                    1270 %!1935:~    1179       1902
A.  NATIONAL ACC"8T1p
(to billims. of 1971 CPIAP)
1.GDP                                         iLe      111      113       11       La!      J         297        7919    269        303         A8?    li1    323       362                jLj          LI          3.0                          100.7   102.0   .104.0f
2.  TT sdjuotaost                                I        -       -3       -2        6        -2       -9                    -       -6          -8     -11      -71    -14                   -           -           -0.2                         -0.7     -2.0    -4.0
3.  Coy                                       248      247       260      246      263       275     Ago8         299      2869     297         279     300    311.    348                  2.1         I1.9        i.7                 100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0
4.  l.port. (Jnc. UPS)                         85        82       as       84       as        86      105         116      II7      109         103     10      III     125                 0.2         6.1         2.3                  34.2      31.3     36.7      35.9
5.  Zeports (InC. UPS)                         22        64       82       64       68        77       95         102       77       86          79    100    104       120                 1.4         2.8         2.1                  29.1      28.0     28.9      34.5
6.  Inprt. 'TI .dj.                            73        64       78       62       74        75       86         102       77       00          it      89      97     106                 0.5         1.6         4.8                  29.)      27.3     26.9      30.4
7. R. gcp, T? .dj.                         -12      -18        -9      -22      -11       -11      .19         -14      -40      .29         -32     -16    -14      -19                    -          -                              -4.9      .4.0     -9.8    -.3.
8.  Concoeplion                   ~~~~     ~~~~221  225  225  223       225      243      257         266      261       278        265    268    278        3739                1.9         3.4        1.8                  59.2      84.4     93.6      88.83
9.Cra-e lnecracnt39                                   40        44       458      49       43        50         47        48       48          46      so      52      58                 2.0         2.8         3.2                  15.7      11.6     16.2     16.7
10.  PrIJe.  .Inenten                            19       17       23       18       20        12       18          19       a'5       21         20      20      21       23               -4.6         e.g         1.5                    7.7      2.4      7.1       6.6
II.  P'bltc to-ti.nwt                            12       14       12       17        18       19       21          21       18        22         22      26      27       31                9.6         3.7         5.9                   4.6       6.9      7.4       8.9
12.  CI..g. In. stool                             8        9        9       10        It        9       El           7        5        10          4        4       4       4                   -          -                               52        3.3       3.4      11
13.  DneOtt  0eol~e~ T  ad).27              2        35       23       38         2       33          3                  19         14       32     38       39                3.5       -12.2        12.1                  10.       1.6        .4       12
14.  Nactomal S.vin.g, IT adj.                  52        30       42       28       40        33       is          55       14        18         14       30      36      37                0.6       414.1        12.8                  12.9      11.8      6.1      10.8
15.  GDP (In mis of current 9)514                       892      3085    1247      1411      1900     1934        1947    2003    2479          2633   3108   3525   5104                   17.3         6.9       1.2.6                               -         -- 
S.  SECTOROUPU
.lIIeAdd                                                                                                                                  LO?j~ 23 1fl 27 27 27 29  6  0  8  3I1    323  362  LI  2.3         301019A    100.0   100.l    100.0
2.Agrlc.tar                                  59       52        62       54       59       72        79          74       64       (1          70      84      88     too                 6.0         3.1         3.2                  23.9     28.0      26.7     27.8
.3.  Industry                                  53        54       56       14       60        64       69          72       64        70         67       74     80       94                3.8         2.9         5.0                  21.5      23.1    23.1       26.0
4.PrI-t.t  $.rvice.                           108       112      116      III      III       113      119         120      108       Ila        116     119    120       133                0.9         1.0         2.0                  43.7      40.8     39.0      36.7
3.   1 PebIiC  S.rvIce                         27        29       29       29       27        26       50          13       53        34         34      34      32       33                0.7         5.0         1.0                  10.9      10.1     11.2       9.7
C.  P10171 IVDICF.1 tM9711001
.  pot Fete.  (SWO od  nly)             92      to0       100      121      221      192       169        209       213      213         238     258    294      345                15.9         2.9         8.2
2 I. Ipot Price.                               91       100      t07      129      I94       198      194         210      214      239         279     302    326    491.                               .           .
S.  Terme of Trade                            101      100        94       84      11         97       87         300      too       90          95      65      90      84                -0.8        -1.9        -1.1
4.  CDP Deflator                               97       100      104      112      1)2       147      154         160      168      174         190    207    236    292                    8.7         6.1        10.9
5s. Cosser PrIcaaLi                            96       100      106      1I18     138       181      182         204      201      235         268    295    324    432                   13.1         6.5        80.8
6.  Flood In....teent Prices                   99       1oo      106      114      1la      1.66      167         380      395      208         229    252    277        368         .     10.9         5.8        10.0
7.  Eoch. fRnt (CFA  Papr 1U8$)             *77.7   277.0   252.    222.7   240.5    214.3   239.0             24.17   225.6   212.1          207.1  207.1  207.1  207. 1 --                              --
D.  SELECILCT   INIIJCATORSI'                  1960/65  1965/70  1970178/    S12L              29i                                                                                                         .  tLk"  FODRCE (1971)            Thb386S4      percmpt
I.  ocoRnL                                    2.4       8.1        4.7        11.7          3.9                                                                                                          1.  karlot. ore                   812          69.4
2.  Ar. Nat. Sar...  ..1.               13.5        9.4      13.4          8.1         10.01                                                                                                        2.  Minieng                          2           0.2
3.  He.t1..  cins  .11                      -15.6      18.2       14.3       -88.2         28.6                                                                                                          3.    anftsn869                                  2.9
4.  Floed 1e.en/?F12.6                                  12.5      17.1         16.7         16.6                                                                                                         4.  Poblic Utilitlee                 A           0.3                       0
S.  leport gle.ticityll.                     -0.0      -0.0        0.90o        1.83        0.86S.C..r-in1                                                                                                                                                 .
6.  leport.lCDP                              32.0      29.9       32.9         38.4        35.5                                                                                                               Cootroctlo.-..                 17           1.5
7.  Zop-rt./CDP                              28.9      24.9       27.4        29.1         30.7                                                                                                          6.  Prlret  Ser-ice.               1'2          90.8
8.  Reeo-rre Gap/GDP                         -3.1      -5.0       -5.5        -9.3         -4.8                                                                                                          8.  Other                           24           2.1
Total                       1170         100.0
P.  PUBLIC FINANICE
(L.n bIllion. of ...... 8 CFAP                                          N.%ol.I*leaotn                                                     le ontl                              Csth got,                                      't)   Share In CotEnt GOP
and floet Years) Li                        1      ]j7        3 flg-   M Ing      j     W-j    !f_T?7         7       FY79        FY80    FY81    FY85               FY7I-75   yY75-80    M28-85                     IFY71   FY75   FIY79    "SW0'1 II r5
1.  sudgeI A&vORnee                          46.4     92.0     55.1    W54        77.3     87.2   304.8        330.1    329.3        160.0  174.0  280.0                   13.6       12.7        11.8                    19.0   20.7   26.4   29.8   28.4
2.  Current lop. (exnd. Interest)            "1       31A       i J     ILl    611         adi    EL-           12_4    114          130.0  133.0R1LO3                    JJ.4         46                                 17.3   17.6   23.4   24.2   20.1
3.  Sodg. Soa. hefore Debt Service            4.1      8.0       4.8     6.5      13        7.0      16.5       12.'       24.6       30.0   36.0   78.0                      -                                            1  .7   2.1     5.0      5.6     7.9
4.  OEh.r PblIl. Saving.j /9                  1         .j       14   !  24        0j       4.8-    10.2         3.6        2.0        4.-0     7.0    -_                  ___                        -                    0.6     0.0     0.4      0.7      _t
S.  PobI. Sav, before Debt 3&rvice            2.6    10.2        7.2    13.7      11.8     11.8      28.7       16.1       36.6       34.0   43.0    78.0                                 --                               2.5     3.2     5.4      6.3     7.9
6.  Debt Servlce                               -       I U      .1.3      33       43       8.7      10.5        36 3      23.9       26.0   33.0    51.0                  32.5       413 .1                               1.0     11      42        .8     5.6
7.Love L bl. S.Vploc                          1.1     J4         5.4    1l         7.       3,      16.3        -0.2        4.7        0.0   12.0   23.0                                                                           2    3 L  0.9    1.1     2.3
8.  Public I.nestmtons /3O                   I2Y      13        I"      29        3T"      A5                              5 "T2U      IT 77          1                   26.3        31.4        17.0                     5.       .4    I7       11.2
9.  Pnr-ete6a of ..lf fl.n.oing (2)   24.0    68.4             33.5    38.4    22.3         7.7    40.0         nag.        9.3        13.3   16.6   21.2
30.  Dblt Sevice In p..conneAe of
....... IX                           5.4      2.1       3.3      4.5      3.2     10.0      10.0        14.6      16.9        16.3   17.8   19.6
Theo* pro.r4ctfons  c         hec the  Gov.nree.nt'c stbihll-i-a  plan wIll be Ia.pleinted.
Coot of iIving iod.. of Lr-ditio..l fanille. in Dekac.
CelColelted fro.aIn. vaue torot.. . Prices .r Montont price. adjucted for chmegea to ter. of trade.
A4jost.d fnc I-ee- of ... d. wh.r. pp.op,ete.
C.lC.ILatd on thee, year. - .r.. g.of CUP and thle flv.y, wrn  a- of fined In.-swt,ent  Incont                  pte-..o
Ce1nol.tod onthree year&  ~.. rero    Inv o  the he... years In c-es.t puries.
COIC.lclaEd4 enIthre  yeaeevra.           afor the la... yoerc In cons.tent princ.6                                                                                                                                                                                             I
FlncI1 years fr.. July I to J.oe  30.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P
LI Ireld..  -cirog  ire.  St.bllntloni.  Veed erd pobll 18.ncrnlne
LIQ  PolIte W-rrteat. .  definnd 17 it.. HLi.&.ty of PI ... ng; centgcey to the notlonCI  dcoeo.Mdetle lcee, the...                             i-erc Inclda  the loll ..*to of prnjaera  in plad4                                                                                (D  (D
en.terprise. io which Ge.r..e.ee..t telkoc a raj., ftrn-1.lo.raponcbhllity, proJect rmponn.. to cht do net  -rape...ne  firrl  -apital  f.r- tlon, ra..r...h prolert. cod ons ailitary enp.nditoc.'.9.. 
-l erretatee &rVIo. hig bcone. of th. I.. CDP In 1980.
FeIroery 1980



- 27 
5ZU8rAL:  &AIMCK OF PAiMT6S A"D EXTEMJAL ASSISTAIC!                                                 AMOE    I
(alitio" cc                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~Page 5
Actuals                                 fietteates                                   ProJlections
1.Z   23I    197       1973     1975          1977     1978    1979           1980    1981       1982     1983     1984      1985
A.  SIfKL(8Y 8ALAICLE OP' PA39ENT
1.  Exports, ime. 81S                                       333      355      602      693      698           869       735      900           948   1,296    1,523    1,697   1,911   2,177
2.  imports, focI. NFl                                    -.373    .483      .691    -793    .852            -989  -1,108  -1,229          -1,390   41,558  -1,748  -1,958  -2, 195   2,462
3.  Resuruce balance                                        .40    .128       -69     -100    -154           4120      -373    _.329          -442    -262      -225    .261    -284        .285
4~.  Factor services net                                    .23      -29      .48      -55        .4          -37       -29      -62           -72     -106     -L.07     -114     -124     -139
Net invesitmt income                             -12      -17       -26      -37      -23           -36      -34       -49          -50       -70      -74      -84      -94      -108
Intemeat public debt                              -5        .7      -14      .19      ..18          -21      -29       -44          -49       -49      -48      -48      -48       -49
Otbar intyeset                                      3        3        2       .3       -1            -4        .4      -12          -19       -38      -41      -44      -49       -56
Yorkers' remittances                             -20       L18      .20       -6       17            18        ZF       30            31       34       38       42        46       50
Other                                              11       10       10       10       12             6        11       13            t5       16       1a       20        21       24
S.  Current transfrer  (oact)                                30       56       64       67        66           65        95       63            76       79       87        90       97      104
6.  CUrrentacount balance                                  -13    -101        -73      -88      -96           -92    -307       -328         -4L36     -289     -245    -w285      -311     -320
7.   rvtecpital (ne t)                                        2      .is       -s        12       16           42        56       69            74       88      100       113      133      151
S.  Capital grants                                            8       19       19       22        23           24        29       26            24       32       32       41        4t      41.1
9.  ?-blic N +1 L7 oans (net)                                11       78       60       56        60            56      135      134           116       93      115      104        98      107
Dlsburee*et%                                      19      100        80       76       8492                  204      212           223      198       214      205      205       2203
lapayments                                        -s      -22       .20      -20      -24           -36      -69      -78          -107     -105       .99     -101    -107      -113
to.  Short-term capital (not) It~                           -12         3       23       to                    . 24       -9      -10            -8       -        -         -        -        -
It.  Capital a.eiL  /2                                         7      -28      -31      -22      -13           -14         3/1L3   20/14         21/15   72/16  -14        -14       -14      -14
12.  Net financing need                                                -                                                                        107/19   99/20   67          76       83       60
13.  Increase in reaervs (13                                          -44       :       -10      -10            -8       -'93     -90         -104        95       55        3        30        5
14.  Level of met foreign assets (end of tbe year)            23      -15      -25      -4.8     -45           -53     -159    -236            -348     -268     -226     -208     -193      -183
S.  LOAN2 COMKIT.11TS                                           _10                TO1      135      127           21~ 35            125           360      303       530      355      40       431
1,188"                                                       16        1        3        7       26            20/3      11        7             a       25       60        30       40       40
2.  IDA                                                      11       24       -        25       11            -         26       25            37       38       25       26        20       20
3.  OPEC Funds                                               -        -        -         4                      3         4                     -        -        -        -         -        -
4.  Other international Institutions                          1        2       10        6       12            21        27/17   46/18          14       21       19       23        25       26
S. france                                                     7        5       16       13       27            28        27       18            33       36       40       44        48       53
6. CermAny                                                    -                17        2         5            4         2       -             is       16       17       19        19       22
7. Ca,da                                                      4                                    4            S                                2        2        2         2        2        2
S.  OPEC countries                                            -        2        9       -          4           -         38/11     6             8        9       10        it       13       14
9.  Other bilateral                                           3/4    SOJ*       4L6    21/7                    t2IL&     20L9     11/10         20       20       23       23        27       30
10.  Q4VSl,ussaa  dan)                                        -                          .         --                     -                      1/12   -          -        -         -        -
It.  Supp  ra                                                  2       14        3        1        t0           22        t0        3            10       15       20        30       30       30
12.  Financial Lnattt,.tioaa  and private bank.                6       so        8       47        28          100       190        6            -        -        -         -        - 
13.  Gross financing need                                                                                                                       108      121      114      145       182      19'4
C.  1.04 TEKSS
1.  Incereat C)4.2                                                  5.8       4.7      41.8     6.1           7.6      6.9      3.9           5.3       6.3      6.7      6.9      7.2       7.2
2.  Crace (Years)                                          6.3      6.1       6.3      6.5      5.6           3.6      3.7      6.4           5.5      4.3       4.2      3.4      3.6       3.6
3.  Maturity iye.ra)                                      30.2     19.8    27.5    23.4    20.1              12.7     13.7    23.7           33.2    20.2       18.9     17.8    1.6.3      56.5
4.   r-at ele,-n  (%)                                     47.0    29.0       39.0    40.0    28.2            13.6     18.9    43.9           74.4    24.5    31.6    20.7    18.2           18.3
S.  Debt service ratio ()3.7                                         7.7      5.4      53.      5.3           6.4    5.2.8    13.2           16.11    14.1      13.6    14.0    14.5        135.1
LI.  Includes errorsaend omissions.
12 nlue  IMF trust fund and 00R sLLocatiove, lIABES  loans and differences betcseen public capitaL influ Se recorded by the Central 3ank and by the 1510D debt report.
/3 nlue  US SI. million Third Wli.do  funda.
14  Denmark.
/5  People's Republic of China to finance imports of Chin.,. surpluses ($10O4 million disbursed so far),
jj  $4 million Ire. U. S. A.
Includes US5 517.4 million coaLmioent from SpaIn and 93.3 mkilion from Denmark.
US AID.
~'1Spain.
L.i0 $12.8 million fcc. Japan and 02 mdllion from, Che United Kingdom.
AL1 837 mtillio from Saudi Arabia and SI million from Abu Dhabi.
LU. An estimated shave of 751? in tIe 0150 miLlion meat of the Diame des:  France $52 million, Saudi Arabia $37 million, Kuweit $35 million and African Development Bank
926, million.
/11   includee STAREX 523.3 million.
/14  Includes STASEX S63.5 million.
/15  lnclodes $13 million SDft aliocation sd STASESX $22.7 mLillion (oeecimtid).
.ai.Icludes STASES $86.9 millIon  (ectineted).
4.2.Inludes $17.6 million IMF Trust Fund.
Includes $13.4 million IMF Trust Fund, 519.6 million Africen Developeant B.ak and $12.8 willion European Investment Bank.
The total fInancing need 4vunta to 5 t5l4million En 1980 includiag $104 million fall in reserve., 922.7 million STASES
The total, financing need wounts to $98 million in 1981, including $86.9 million STABEX, but sn inprovement in reserve of 995 mlltion,
lmbveaLrp 1980,



Annex I
P.ge 6
SE4NtCAL - DLEI AN11) CREDITWoTIIINESS
(iilltuns of current US D.l1arvl
________ A_-___            _  _   _                tatlnltesa                                      Prr lectl.n,
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976            1977    1978       1979          1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
L. 1EUtEDIM AIU LONG-TERH
DEST (Dlabursed only)
1.  Total Public Debt Outstanding                    138.6   203.2   248.3   295.1   350.4           417.1   581.7    716.2            932.8   1125.4   1308.0   1488.6   1670.9   1838.6
2.  Incl.ding undiabu.red                            219.2   361.2   420.4   522.8   616.6            814.5  1156.0   1203.2          1177.0   1457.4   1736.6   2013.6   2301.6   2564.3
3.  Public Debt Sertice                               13.4    29.4    33.4    39.3    42.3             56.5    98.1    122.0           156.3    186.3    212.4    243.2    285.2.    336.6
a.  Interest:                                     4.9       3.2    13.8    18.4    18.1           20.6    29.2       44.1           49.3      59.4      67.6      73.4      80;7      89.7
1.  on projected aid                                 -            -                                                                      49.2       48.0      47.6      48.0      49.4
2.  on additional capital need.                                                               -                                          10.2       19.6      25.8      32.7      40.3
b.  Aorrizatlon;                                  8.5    22.2    19.6    20.9    24.2             35.9    68.9       77.9          107.0    126.9    144.8    169.9    204.5    247.0
1.  on projected aid                            -        -                                                                               0- I5.4   99.1    101.5    107.1    113.3
2.  on *dditional capit4l n**es                 -        -        -        -        -            -        -         -              -     21.5       45.7      68.4      97.4    133.7
4. Other N & LT Debt ServiLc
a.  Other Interaet
b.  Aaortixat*n
5.  Total Debt Service
6.  met Investment Income                             12.0    17.0    26.0    37.0    23.0             35.5    33.6      48.9           30.3      70.0       74.0      84.0      94.2    105.7
7.  Totat payoent on toirtan capital                  25.4    46.4    59.4    16.1    65.1             92.1   131.1    110.1           206.S    256.3    286.4    31A.2    579.4           41.3
A.  DEBT bbRDHN
1.  Public Debt Service Ratio                          3.7      7.7      5.4      5.3     5.5           6.4    12.8       13.2          16.1      14.1       13.6      14.0      14.5      15.0
2.  Payment on Voraign Capital Betie                   7.2    12.3       9.5    10.4      8.5          10.4    17.1       18.4          21.2      19.4       18.4      18.8      19.3      19.9
3.  Public Debt Service/GDP                            1.2      2.4      2.4     2.1      2.2           2.9     4.9        4.9           5.9       6.0       6.0        6.1       6.3       6.6
4.  Public Debt Service/Govt.  aevnvaa                 2.1      3.3      4.5      5.2    10.0          10.0    14.8       16.9          16.3       17.8                 -         -        19.6
C. .,TEERS
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                    3.5      3.5      5.6     6.2      5.2           4.9      5.0       6.2           5.3       5.3        5.2       4.9       4.8       4.9
2.  Public Debt Service/Total DOD                      9.7    14.5    11.6    13.3    12.1             13.5    16.8       17.0          16.8      16.6       16.2      16.3      11.1      18.3
D. DEPENDENCY IIATIOS FOP. R1 o lT DEbT1 1
1.  Cron* Dtibureeente/laporto (ncl.servicee)   5.1    20. 7L  10.4              8.5      9.0           8.8    17.4       16.1          22.2      18.9       17.2      16.4      16.1      15.2
2.  Met Tranaterilc.prts (inct. aervieal)              2.6    14.6       7.8      6.1     6.5           S.4    11.5       10.1           7.8       5.5        6.1       4.9       4.1       4.0
3.  Net Tr*nster/Croee Dlebursoeente                   0.58    0.78    0.75    0.74    0.71             0.61    0.66       0.63          0.52      0.47       0.54     0.51       0.48      0.49
B. EXPOSURE
1.  IbRD Dl.b./Tot.l Gro.. Disbureement                1.9      0.7      1.5      S.3      5.6         14.1      3.2      5.0            3.7       4.5        5.8       7.0       7.5       7.9
2.  BSank Group D01b./Total Groas Dieburemat    23.7            3.9    20.9    24.9    19.9            22.6      7.6      13.2           8.0       9.8       12.6      14.2      13.9      13.8
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                 1.7      1.4      1.1      3.4     4.2           6.5      5.5       5.8           5.6       5.8       6.3        7.0       7.7       3.6
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                          13.1    13.3    14.2    18.1    19.9             21.6    17.9       18.3          16.6      16.4       17.1      18.1      19.1      20.2
5.  JIBiD Debt Service/Total Debt Service              3.0      1.8      1.9      1.9     2.9           3.6     4.2        3.2           3.1       3.3       3.3       4.0        4.2       4.1
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service         3.8      2.1      2.5      2.6      3.7          4.6      4.8       3.8           3.1       4.0        4.1       4.8       4.9       4.9
F.  SXTERNAL DEIIT /Diab.red only                                             (      ndng Dec  31   1979                         0_t.tan4in Dect.ber 1985
Amount              Percent                         Ausunt              Percent
1.  B1D8                                                                    41.8                 5.S                           156.0                 8.4
2.  IDA                                                                     89.0                12.4                           212.0                 13.5
3.  Other Multtlateral                                                      81.0                11.3                           335.5                10.2
4.  Governments                                                            259.4                36.2                           511.9                31.1
5.  Suppliers  Credite end financial Inotitutione                          245.0                34.2                            69.3                  3.8
6.  Others                                                                     -                                               493.9                26.9
7.  Total Public H 6 LT Debt                                               716.2               100.0                          1838.6               100.0
8.  Total Public K1 &Lt Debt (Incl. und4abursed)                          1203.2               168.0                          2564.3                139.5
2.  TOTAL DEBT bERVICE 1980-651/D0  end-1979                  198.37
LI Debt Service to be paid by tke Tra-*ury only (fisacl p-rs).
Public debt only.
High Eurodullar borrowtulo to ftinance Goverumets partiecpation policy.
rebrery IS80.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of June 30, 1980)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                         (US$ Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                 Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Four Loans* and twelve Credits fully disbursed           13.5    50.1
336-SE     1972   Senegal      Housing Site
and Services                8.0        2.4
866-SE     1972   OPTS         Telecommunications   6.2                  0.6
366-SE     1973   Senegal      Second Highway                 8.0        0.1
987-SE     1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance  3.0                   0.2
530-SE     1975   Senegal      Education II                  15.0        5.6
1113-SE     1975   Senegal      Agric. Diversifi-
cation               7.0                4.9
578-SE     1975   Senegal      Terres Neuves II               2.0        0.1
1221T-SE     1976   Senegal      Feeder Roads           6.6                1.6
1222-SE     1976   Senegal      Third Highway         15.0                3.8
633-SE     1976   Senegal      Livestock                      4.2        2.7
647-SE     1976   Senegal      Second Sedhiou                 6.3        3.4
1332-SE     1976   SOFISEDIT   Second Development
Finance             4.2                1.9
1405T-SE     1977   Senegal      Port of Dakar          6.0                1.6
1412T-SE     1977   Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                  5.1
1413-SE     1977   Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                  3.6
764-SE     1978   Senegal      Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.         -       6.3        3.3
775-SE     1978   Senegal      Irrigation                    20.0       11.5
1518-SE     1978   RCFS         Railways III          11.0                7.6
1665-SE     1979   Senegal      Second Airport         7.0                6.7
S-23-SE     1979   Senegal      Water Supply Engr.             2.5        2.4
908-SE      1979   Senegal      Education III                 22.0       21.3
991-SE2/    1980   Senegal      Small Rural
Operations                 11.0       11.0
993-SE2/    1980   Senegal      Fourth Highway                28.0       28.0
1810-SE2/    1980   Senegal      Fourth Highway        10.0               10.0
S-26-SE2/    1980   Senegal       Power Eng and T.A.            3.3        3.3
Total                                   103.1   186.7      142.7
of which has been repaid                6.8     0.6
Total now outstanding                    96.3   186.1
Amount sold                       3.4
of which has been repaid       2.6
0.8
Total now held by  Bank and IDA 1/       95.5   186.1
Total Undisbursed                        47.6    95.1      142.7
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in
1969 was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Not yet effective.



-30 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of June 30, 1980)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal       Obligor             Type of Business      Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant        2.45        1.01     3.46
d-Engrais au Senegal
1972)  BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                     Vegetable Export        -          0.84     0.84
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                Development
Finance Company        -          0.24     0.24
1980   Banque de l'Habitat      Money and Capital       -          0.47     0.47
du Senegal S.A.          Market
1980   Societe Hoteliere        Tourism                3.00         -       3.00
du Barachois, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                        5.45        2.56      8.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
repayment and sales                          2.45        1.05      3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC               3.00       1.51      4.51
Undisbursed Balance                             3.00       0.47      3.47
C. Projects in Execution I/
Cr. 336      Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation started slowly, but is now proceeding satis-
factorily following agreements reached with the Government in October 1978 to
improve performance. The main problem affecting the project has been plot
consolidation and occupancy, but this is now accelerating with the assistance
of a loan scheme by the project agency (OHLM) and the Senegalese national
development bank (BNDS), which is now fully operational. Site development has
also been hindered by the absence of on-site employment opportunities other
than construction-related activities; a unit in OHLM is currently examining
this problem and preparing proposals.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3
Ln. 987   SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
SOFISEDIT was created in March 1974 for the purpose of providing
long-term financing for developing enterprises in industry and tourism. The
first line of credit of US$3 million is now fully committed, and a second
loan (Ln. 1332) is under disbursement. A Project Completion Report is being
prepared.
Ln. 866   Telecommunications ProJect; US$6.3 million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project was designed to improve the quality of telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of northern Senegal. Completion of
project implementation took about three years longer than originally scheduled
mainly because of delays in procurement, resulting cost overruns, and changes
in top management. The physical works are now completed, and the installation
has been successfully commissioned. The Borrower has made significant efforts
over the past two years to improve its management, as well as its accounting
and financial organization. This, together with the audits and financial
advisors financed under the Parapublic Sector Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 764) is expected to result in substantial improvement of the institution.
Cr. 366   Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies. All project items
are now satisfactorily completed. The strengthening program however had to
be reduced from 110 km to about 35 km as a result of higher costs than estimated
at appraisal, and high inflation during implementation; the remaining 75 km
were strengthened under the ongoing Third Highway Project (Ln 1222). The
objectives of the maintenance program were not entirely met due to management
problems and insufficient allocation of local funds, and the technical
assistance was extended under the Third Highway Project. Preinvestment
studies were successfully completed and taken into account in planning of
subsequent projects. Only fellowships awarded under the project remain to be
completed.
Cr. 530   Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation remains about two years behind schedule
because of earlier delays in design and contract awards. These delays,
together with a 10% decline in the value of the US Dollar, resulted in a cost
overrun of about US$6 million. To help compensate for these increased costs,
the Government requested, and the Association has formally agreed, to reduce
the scope of the project by reducing the number of science centers from 11 to
8, the number of rural youth training centers from 30 to 15, and by deleting
from the project the construction and equipment for the Hotel School and
seeking another source of external financing for this component. The Indus-
trial Training and Upgrading Center has started training courses in all



-32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4
trades. Construction and equipping of the Merchant Marine School have been
completed. Construction of the science centers and lower secondary schools
was satisfactorily completed at end-1979 (except for one science center in
Saint Louis which was late in starting and will not be ready until early
1981). Procurement of furniture and equipment is progressing on schedule.
The rural youth training component is still experiencing some implementation
difficulties; but modified educational objectives and a revised implementation
schedule have been agreed with the Government, and all the centers are
expected to be in operation by end-1981.
Cr. 549      Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln 1113      US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The objective of the project is to improve productivity of small
farms through intensification of farmers' agricultural practices, particularly
through increased use of fertilizer and heavy equipment. However, results
over the first three years of the project show that yield increases have been
negligible. Re-orientation efforts were undertaken in agreement with the
Bank, and more emphasis was put on actions which had met favorable results
such as promotion of maize production in the south of the project region, and
integration of agriculture and animal husbandry in the north. Despite these
efforts, and although rainfall has recently been better than average, the
project has still not shown any improvement in additional production or
yields, a result largely of serious management and staffing problems, and an
ineffective extension service. It was therefore decided, in agreement
with the Government and the co-financer CCCE, to re-appraise the project in
an attempt to find new workable solutions to the existing problems. A joint
re-appraisal was carried out in November 1979, and a draft Amendment to
the Credit Agreement was re-negotiated with Government in May 1980. The
Amending Agreement will be circulated to the Board shortly for approval on a
no-objection basis.
Cr. 578      Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project, which is a follow-up to an earlier re-settlement
operation, consists of settling 600 families over a three-year period in the
Eastern Senegal Region, and providing the necessary infrastructure; and
preparing a master plan for agricultural development of the region. The
project has been completed satisfactorily, although about one year behind
schedule, and a Completion Report is being prepared.
Ln. 1221-T      Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing roads; purchase of high-
way equipment and spare parts, and materials and supplies for project
operations; technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring;
construction of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production. The



- 33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5
project had been experiencing serious delays caused by insufficient
financial, managerial, and logistic support; but on the recommendation of
and in agreement with the Bank, the Government undertook a series of measures
to accelerate works, and progress has improved considerably. Works executed
so far are of satisfactory technical quality.
Ln. 1222     Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvest-
ment studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construc-
tion industry.  The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
The pavement strengthening program has been completed. The road maintenance
program begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under this
project, is continued under the Fourth Highway Project to strengthen the
maintenance organization and operations. As a result of currency realign-
ments and a civil works execution period that was shorter than planned, an
amount of about US$2.5 million became available under the loan; the Bank has
agreed to the Government's proposals to use these funds to cover the foreign
cost of extending technical assistance for road maintenance, improving work-
shops and training center buildings, and procuring workshop and training
equipment.
Cr. 633      Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel
financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily and on schedule. Livestock producers
appear to be giving full support to the project.
Cr. 647      Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural and
livestock production through improved farming and husbandry practices.
Project implementation has been going reasonably well until the past season
when production was severely affected by the failure of ONCAD (the national
cooperative and marketing agency) to supply fertilizers as needed. In addi-
tion, the project's overall efficiency is hampered by administrative problems
similar to those being encountered in the Sine Saloum Project (Loan 549/Credit
1113) discussed above. The project has achieved its objectives in total area
cultivated and number of participants; however, findings of the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit show that project impact could be reduced, primarily because
participating farms show no significant yield increases (except for rice)
over those farms outside the project, and because the area cultivated per
participant is smaller than expected. Work on the agricultural development
plan for the Casamance Region by the project-s Planning Unit is now completed,
and further detailed studies are underway.



- 34 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6
participating farms show no significant yield increases (except for rice)
over those farms outside the project, and because the area cultivated per
participant is smaller than expected. Work on the agricultural development
plan for the Casamance Region by the project's Planning Unit is now completed,
and further detailed studies are underway.
Ln. 1332     Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit for
industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a pilot scheme
of assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through SONEPI, the local
industrial promotion agency. The Loan is fully committed. SOFISEDIT remains
nevertheless a fragile institution operating in a difficult environment.
As a result, a third operation, new under preparation, would concentrate
on strengthening SOFISEDIT and streamlining its industrial policies and
administration.
Ln. 1405-T   Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation is now satisfactory. Civil works are almost
completed. The quality of contractors' workmanship is very good, and about
900 meters of new quays have already been put into use. All the technical
assistance services and studies are progressing satisfactorily. Overall
performance of the Port Authority remains satisfactory, but there are con-
tinuing problems with receivables, statistics, and recruitment and reten-
tion of qualified staff.
Ln. 1412-T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln.-1413      Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common
facilities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area
where lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program
of works for preservation and development of Goree Island; and technical
assistance and studies to improve planning, promotion, and training in the
hotel sector. Construction of infrastructure works at the Sali project area
continues to proceed satisfactorily. Major works are nearing completion, and
areas designated for hotel construction should be ready for delivery early in
1981. The construction contract for the common recreation center and commer-
cial areas has been signed. Bidding documents for the Goree component were
approved by the Bank. In 1979, the Government requested the Bank to consider
reallocation of US$3.5 million of Loan funds originally intended for construc-
tion of a pilot hotel at Sali to provide long-term financing for hotel con-
struction at the site. Negotiations to that effect were satisfactorily com-
pleted in January, 1980, and a proposal to amend the project description in
the Loan documents has been approved by the Executive Directors on April 29,
1980. The amendments were signed on May 12, 1980.



- 35 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7
Ln. 1518     Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, -xppl.y of
material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. Contracts for most of the
items for track renewal and maintenance have been signed, and the rest are in
an advanced stage of finalization. Almost half of the total order of locomo-
tive spare parts have been received.  The training program is progressing
satisfactorily. Consultants have completed the first phase of the study of
the optimum structure and ownership of the Senegal Railway (together with the
connecting Mali Railway). Railway traffic in the fiscal year ending June 30,
1979 was slightly below that of the previous year due basically to reduced
motive power availability stemming from major accidents; this situation is
expected to improve following the delivery of two new high-power locomotives,
as well as critical spare parts for the locomotive rehabilitation program.
Cr. 764      Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Government organizations charged with strategic analysis,
operational supervision, and formal financial control over the para-public
sector; and upgrading the auditing, financial management, and accounting
procedures for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important
public enterprises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical
assistance are in place, and work is progressing satisfactorily. Overall
guidance and direction by Project Management had not been very effective, but
Government has recently taken some very positive measures to remedy this
situation. Introductory training seminars for Government administrators and
staff in the control organizations have begun, with more intensive and
specialized courses planned to start by mid-1980. The audit component is
progressing well, and there is already some improvement in the follow-up of
audit recommendations.
Cr. 775      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of 2,220 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED;
consulting services for applied research and studies for future development
of the River Valley. Works on the Lampsar perimeter are progressing satis-
factorily, and completion of land development is expected by July 1980.
Work on the Debi perimeter (financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement) is expected to start shortly. The technical assis-
tance team provided by the French FAC to strengthen SAED is now in place.



- 36 -                        ANNEX II
Page 8
Construction of project headquarters and training center are expected to starL
by mid-1980. Consultants for the studies have been selected in agreement
with the Association.
Ln. 1665      Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Effective November 15, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main
runway and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, and
installation of navigation and visual approach aids at regional airports at
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring. Design work and bidding procedures for the Dakar
airport have been satisfactorily completed, and work is expected to start
later in 1980. Equipment procurement is underway.
Cr. S-23     Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective August 10,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical studies
to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of
water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six regional
capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating
entities in the sector. Consultants have been selected in agreement with the
Association, and work is expected to short by mid-1980.
Cr. 908      Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of May 23, 1979;
Effective August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is designed to increase the supply of high- and middle-
level technicians and managers required for the modern agricultural and
industrial sectors; improve and expand secondary technical and vocational
education; and improve the quality of primary education and establish a solid
base for its future expansion, especially in rural areas. Physical imple-
mentation of the major components is progressing satisfactorily. Tenders for
construction of the National College of Agriculture and the Technical Teacher
Training College, representing about 70% of the total civil works, are being
invited. Bidding documents are being prepared for equipment, valued at about
US$2.0 million, for two secondary technical schools, the Vocational Training
and Upgrading Center, and the Technical Teacher Training College. Imple-
mentation of the educational research and planning component has been delayed
by about six months following a Government review of the role of the proposed
Educational Research Institute.



- 37 -                        ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. 991      Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit of April 2,
1980; Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The ?roject focusses on channelling funds and technical services
to small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing. The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive
activities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision
for a management structure.
Cr. 993      Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.0 million
Ln. 1810     Credit of April 2, 1980; Not yet effective;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government's
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and
programming capacity and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government's soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road mainte-
nance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance and
strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about 200 km
of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road (about 85
km) to two-lane, paved standards.
Cr. S-26-SE Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$3.3 million
Credit of June 18, 1980; Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to assist Government in
developing an overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector. The
project also includes financial and tariff studies, and feasibility studies
for a headquarters building for the new power entity and for the expension of
the generating facilities.



- 38 -                       ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification mission                         November 1979
(b)  Appraisal                                      March/April 1980
(c)  Negotiations completed                         June 4, 1980
(d)  Planned date of credit effectiveness           October 1980
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
Assistance in recruiting advisors and consultants
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  As special conditions for effectiveness:
(i)  establishment of a project account as a revolving fund
and initial deposit equivalent to $50,000 (para. 59);
(ii) issuance of an executive order to ensure that, with respect
to development projects estimated to cost more than CFAF 100
million, relevant ministry departments and agencies under-
taking feasibility studies would (1) prepare financial and
economic data as requested by DPM and (2) submit projects to
DPM for economic and financial analysis (para 52);
(iii)  issuance of an executive order to ensure the nomination of a
civil servant in all relevant ministries, departments and
agencies involved in development projects responsible for
monitoring contract preparation and progress (para 56);
(b) advisors/trainers for DPM, DDI and Primature would be retained by
November 1, 1980 (para 49);
(c) studies for development projects would be selected in agreement
with the Association in accordance with criteria satisfactory
to the Association (para 50);
(d) draft "contrats-plans" for about ten parapublic enterprises would
be reviewed by the Association and the Association's comments
would be reflected in this final version (para 58);
(e) terms of reference, qualifications and contracts for all consultants
to be approved by the Association (para 61).



- 39 -                  Annex IV
Table 1
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Summary Project Costs 1/
(us $o000)
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3                                %     Total
Item                    '81     '82      '83    Total  Local  Foreign  Foreign   Cost
1. Advisory and consul-
tant services         700      650      400  1,750    170    1,570         90    28
2. Training and fellow-
ships                 290      220      210    720    240       490        68    12
3. Local staff                80     120      150    350    350         -         -        6
4. Equipment and vehicles  260         20      20    300      50       250        83       5
5. Operating costs            60      60       60    190      50       140        74      3
6. Studies                   8oo     8oo      800  2,4oo    24o    2,160          90     38
Sub-total              2,190   1,870   1,640  5,710  1,100    4,610            80     92
Physical contingencies   30        -        -       30     -         30      100      -
Price contingencies        70     170      240    470    130        340        72     8
Grand Total            2,290   2,040   1,880- 6,220  1,230    4,980            80   100
1/ All costs in this and subsequent tables are base price of July 1980, and net of
all taxes and duties.
N. B. Totals may not add due to rounding.



40                        Annex IV
Table 2
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Advisory and Consultant Services
(US $'000)
Year 1 '81  Year 2 '82  Year 3 '83    Total
Item                              Cost  Cost  (No)  Cost  (No)  Cost  (No)  Cost  (No)
1. Ministry of Planning
Full-time advisors (years)
l/ 2/                           120   180 (1.5)   300 (2.5)   300 (2.5)   780 (6.5)
Short-term consultants
(months) 1/ 2/                11.5   104 (  9)   126 (11 )    58 (  5)   288 (25 )
Sub-total                                 284          426          358        1,068
2. Ministry of Finance
Full-time advisor (DDI)
(years) 2/                     120   120   (1)    -               -           120   (l)
Short-term consultants
(months) 2/                            4
-  DDI organization           11.5    46   (4)    -               -            46   (4)
-  Budget                     11.5    35   (3)    35   (3)    -                70   (6)
-  Forecasting                11.5    46   (4)    23   (2)    23   (2)    92   (8)
Sub-total                                 247           58           23          328
3. Primature
Full-time advisor (years)2/        120   120   (1)   120   (1)    -               240   (2)
Short-term consultants 2/         11.5    23   (2)    23   (2)    -                46   (4)
(months) 2/                             ___
Sub-total                                 143          143           -            286
Project Supervision
Short-term consultants 2/         11.5    23   (2)    23   (2)    23   (2)    69   (6)
Sub-total                                  23           23           23            69
Sub-total                                 697          650          404        1,751
Price contingencies                        34          100          109           243
Grand Total                               731          750          513        1,994
1/ Allocated costs.
2/ Includes all billable costs.



Annex IV
-tl -                         Table 3
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Training
(us $'ooo)
Year 1 '81  Year 2 '82  Year 3 '83    Total
Item                             Cost  Cost  (No)  Cost  (No)  Cost  (No)  Cost  (No)
1. Ministry of Planning
Full-time advisors (years)
1/ 2/                          120    60  (.5)    60  (.5)    60  (.5)   180 (1.5)
Short-term consultants
(months) 1/ 2/                11.5    69   (6)    34   (3)    46   (4)   149  (13)
Seminars etc.
-  Regional training            -     10           10           10            30
-  Planning training            -      21           21           21           63
-  Project seminars             -       4            3            3          10
-  User seminars                -      15          15           -            30
Sub-total                                179          143          140          462
2. Ministry of Finance
Short-term consultants
(months) 2/                   11.5    70   (6)    35   (3)    35   (3)   140  (12)
Seminars                                  15           15           15           45
Sub-total                                 85           50           50          185
3. Overseas Training
Visits to IBRD/IMF (MEF)                  10           10           10           30
Short-term fellowships (MPC/              17           16           10           43
Primature)
Sub-total                                 27           26           20           73
Sub-total                                291          219          210          720
Price contingencies                       15           34           57          106
306          253          267         826
1/ Allocated costs
2/ Includes all billable costs



-42-                      Annex IV
Table h
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Local Staff Requirements and Incremental Costs
A.  Total Number          B.  Incremental Cost
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3
Item                            '81      '82      '83        '81      '82     '83      Total
(staff years)                  (US $'000)
1.  Ministry of Planning
Cell Director (A)  )
Bureau Chief  (A)  )4                            4          16       16       16         48
Analysts       (B)  )            0       5      10           0       15       30         45
Secretary                        2       2       2           5         5       5         15
Encodeuse                        2       2        2          5         5       5         15
Driver                           -       5        5          -        10      10          20
Planton                          1       1        1          1         1       1           3
Sub-total                                               27        52       67        146
2.  Ministry of Finance              2       2        2          8         8        8         24
Analysts (B) (Est)               2       2        2          8         8       8         24
Analysts (B) (Est)               5      10      12          15       30       36         81
Other         (Est)              5       5       5         12.5      12.5    12.5        37.5
Sub-total                                               44.5      59.5    65.5       169.5
3.  Other Ministries
Primature, etc.                                              3.5     13.5    13.5        30.5
Sub-total                                                3.5      13.5    13.5        30.5
Sub-total                                                  75       125      146        346
Price contingencies                                          5       25       55         85
Grand Total                                                80       150      201        431



-43  -                Annex IV
Table 5
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Equipment and Vehicle Costs
(us $'000)
Unit     Year 1 '81   Year 2 182   Year 3 '83         Total
Item                       Cost      Cost  (No)   Cost  (No)   Cost  (No)   Cost   (No)
1. Ministry of Planning
Vehicles                     10        50   (5)      -             -             50
Office furniture and
equipment                          135            15            15           165
Minicomputer and service               32             5             5            42
Sub-total                             217            20            20           257
2. Ministry of Finance
Office equipment                       20            -             -             20
Sub-total                              20            -             -             20
3. Miscellaneous
Presidency, etc.                       20            -             -             20
Sub-total                              20            -             -             20
Sub-total                             260            20            20           300
Physical contingencies                 30            -             -             30
Sub-total                             290            20            20           330
Price contingencies                    10            -             10            20
Grand Total                           300            20            30           350



-44 -              Annex IV
Table 6
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Incremental Operating Costs
(US $'000)
Item                                    Year 1 '81   Year 2 '82   Year 3 '83   Total
1. Ministry of Planning
Vehicle operating costs                       35            35            35       105
Travel, allowances                            18            18           18         54
Sub-total                                     53            53           53        159
2. Ministry of Finance
Travel, miscellaneous allowances              10           10            10         30
Sub-total                                     10           10            10         30
Sub-total                                     63            63           63        189
Price contingencies                            3           10            17         30
Grand Total                                   66           73            80        219



Annex IV
Table 7
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Studies
(us $ ooo)
Item                                   Year 1 '81   Year 2 '82   Year 3 '83   Total
Studies                                    800           800           800       2,400
Grand Total                                800           800           800       2,400



- 46 -
Annex IV
Table 8
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Financing Plan and Disbursements
(us $'000)
Financing Plan         Disbursements
Item                                        IDA     GOS      Total          Total
1. Consultant services                       1,690       -      1,690
2,300
2. Training                                    640      140       780        )
3. Local staff costs                            -       350       350             -
4. Equipment and vehicles                      300       -        300            300
5. Operating costs                              -      190        190             _
6. Studies                                   2,400       -      2,400          2,400
7. Unallocated                                 270      220       490            300
Total                                     5,300      900     6,200          5,300



_47 _                        ANNEX IV
Appendix 1
Page 1
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ADVISORY/TRAINING CONSULTANTS
The credit will be used to finance about 11 years of advisory/training/
consultancy services for additional posts as follows:
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND COOPERATION
1.   Senior Infrastructure Economist/Planner - Group Leader
Location: Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, Division of Programming
and Monitoring.
Qualifications: Professional economist with wide knowledge and experi-
ence in planning and implementing infrastructure proj-
ects. Sound knowledge of project analysis techniques.
Considerable developing country experience.
Duties:   (1)  Through the use of advisory/training staff in DPM, and
short-term consultants, to train Division staff in all
aspects of project analysis, project preparation, project
selection and portfolio selection, the monitoring of
project implementation and ex post analysis of projects
in the infrastructure sector.
(2) Advise on the selection of short-term consultants for
staff training in the above sectors.
(3) To provide overall coordination for the group of advisors/
trainers.
(4) To advise and assist in increasing: (a) the portfolio
of directly productive and/or export-oriented projects
in the public sectors; and (b) productive investment
in the private sector.
(5) To advise the Director and advise and assist Division
staff in: (a) the evaluation of project financing request;
(b) planning the investment portfolio; (c) the monitoring
of project execution; and (d) ex post analysis of projects
in the above sectors, in cooperation with the Department
of Plan Financing in MPC and the planning and implementa-
tion groups of the other relevant ministries.



- 48 -                       ANNEX IV
Appendix 1
Page 2
(6) Through the use of advisor/trainers in DPM and short-term
consultants, to prepare programs for, and implement the
training of, project evaluation, preparation and execution
staff in other ministries, the Regions and project direc-
tors in the techniques used by the Division.
(7) Advise on liaison with, and assistance to, other minis-
tries and bodies involved in project planning and execu-
tion in the productive sectors and in particular with the
Ministry of Industry and Artisanat, the National Council
for Development Studies, the Secretariat of the Inter-
ministerial Investment Committee and the private sector.
(8) Advise and assist in forecasting relevant economic aggre-
gates (e.g. value added, employment, investment), finan-
cial aggregates (e.g. debt service, public commitments),
and physical aggregates (e.g. production).
Duration: 2 years from mid 1981
2.   Senior Industrial Economist/Planner
Location: Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, Division of Programming
and Monitoring.
Qualifications:  Professional economist with wide knowledge and experi-
ence in planning and implementing projects in industry
and preferably other productive sectors (for example:
mining, tourism, small-scale industry). Sound knowledge
of project analysis techniques. Considerable developing
country experience.
Duties:   (1)  Through the use of advisory/training staff in DPM, and
short-term consultants, to train Division staff in all
aspects of project analysis, project preparation, project
selection and portfolio selection, the monitoring of
project implementation and ex post analysis of projects
in industrial and other productive sectors (principally
mining, tourism, commerce and small scale industry).
(2) Advise on the selection of short-term consultants for
staff training in the above sectors.
(3) To advise and assist in increasing: (a) the portfolio
of directly productive and/or export-oriented projects
in the public sectors; and (b) productive investment
in the private sector.
(4) To advise the Director and advise and assist Division
staff in: (a) the evaluation of project financing request;
(b) planning the investment portfolio; (c) the monitoring



- 49-                      ANNEX IV
Appendix 1
Page 3
of project execution; and (d) ex post analysis of projects
in the above sectors, in cooperation with the Department
of Plan Financing in MPC and the planning and implementa-
tion groups of the other relevant ministries.
(5) Through the use of advisor/trainers in DPM and short-term
consultants, to prepare programs for, and implement the
staff in other ministries, the Regions and project direc-
tors in the techniques used by the Division.
(6) Advise on liaison with, and assistance to, other minis-
tries and bodies involved in project planning and execu-
tion in the productive sectors and in particular with the
Ministry of Industry and Artisanat, the National Council
for Development Studies, the Secretariat of the Inter-
ministerial Investment Committee and the private sector.
(7) Advise and assist in forecasting relevant economic aggre-
gates (e.g. value added, employment, investment), finan-
cial aggregates (e.g. debt service, public commitments),
and physical aggregates (e.g. production).
Duration: 3 years
3.   Senior Social Services Sector Economist/Planner
Location: Ministry of Planning and Cooperation; Division of Programming
and Monitoring.
Qualifications: Professional economist with wide knowledge and experi-
ence in planning and implementing projects in the social
sectors. Sound knowledge of project analysis tech-
niques. Considerable developing country experience.
Duties:   (1)  To advise the Director and advise and train division
staff in all aspects of project analysis, project prepara-
tion, project selection and portfolio selection, the
monitoring of project implementation and ex post analysis
of projects in the social sectors.
(2) To advise the Director and to advise and assist Division
staff in: (a) the evaluation of project financing requests;
(b) planning the investment portfolio; (c) the monitoring
of project execution; and (d) ex post analysis of projects
in the social sectors, in cooperation with Department of
Plan Financing in MPC and the planning and implementation
groups of the other relevant ministries.
(3) Advise on liaison with other ministries and bodies involved
in project planning and execution in the social sectors.



- 50                         ANNEX IV
Appendix I
Page 4
(4) Through the use of advisors/trainers in DPM and short-term
consultants to prepare programs for, and implement the
training of, project evaluation, preparation and execution
staff in other ministries and the regions in the tech-
niques used by the Division.
(5) Overall responsibility for the DPM training program.
Duration: 3 years
The above advisors must be fluent in French and have a working knowledge
of English. All must be capable of team work. Previous experience in train-
ing will carry weight because all advisors will work extensively in preparing
and implementing training programs for local staff. They will be expected to
have prepared outline training programs and materials for the first year of
the project within 3 months of arrival and final programs and materials within
6 months. Their primary objective will be training and skill upgrading of
local staff. They will be internationally recruited.
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
4.   Senior Debt Advisor
Location: Ministry of Economy and Finance, Debt and Investment Depart-
ment - Debt Division.
Qualifications: Professional economist, preferably with an advanced
degree, with substantial experience and senior responsi-
bilities in public finance, preferably with public debt
experience. Considerable developing country experience.
Duties:   (1)  Responsibility for the preparation and publication of the
public debt report.
(2) Advisor to the Chief of the Debt Division, responsible
for: (a) preparing the annual work program; (b) organiz-
ing the preparation and publication of one public debt
report; (c) planning a program for the training of divi-
sional staff to be implemented either personally or
through the selection and employment of suitable short-
term consultants; (d) recommending to the chief of the
Debt Division on the future organization, staffing levels
and work program of the Debt Division; (e) ensuring
appropriate liaison and cooperation with other minis-
tries, especially the Ministry of Planning and Coopera-
tion; and (f) training the Senegalese personnel in the
Debt Division.
Duration: 1 year.
The advisor must be fluent in French and have a working knowledge of
English. The advisor will be internationally recruited.



ANNEX IV
Appendix 1
Page 5
PRIMATURE
5.   Advisor for "Contrats-Plans"
Location: Primature
Qualifications: University degree in public law, economics, finance
or management. Civil servant of Category A or a
contractual agent of a public enterprise at a similar
level with at least five years experience in the
field of financial and management control of para-
public enterprises and practical experience with
"contracts-plans".
Duties:   In association with the President of the Parapublic Sector
Study Group:
(i) To organize and participate in negotiations to prepare,
initiate the implementation and monitor the execution
of three-year "contrats-plans" between Government and
about ten parapublic companies.
(ii) To organize short-term consultancy missions concerning
specific problems relating to "contrats-plans" for
para-public companies.
(iii) To participate in meetings relating to parapublic
companies and to provide overall coordination between
relevant ministries and supervising agencies and para-
public companies.
(iv) To report on a continuous basis to the Secretary General
of the Government and at periodic intervals to the
Prime Minister concerning the progress in preparing and
executing "contrats-plans".
Duration: Two years from November 1980.



-52 -                        ANNEX IV
Appendix 2
Page 1
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND COOPERATION -
DIVISION OF PROGRAMMING AND MONITORING (DPM)
OBJECTIVES OF DPM
1.   To improve the effectiveness of government in identification, prepara-
tion, selection, monitoring the execution and ex post analysis of sound
development projects in the public and private sectors.
2.   To increase the portfolio of bankable projects in the directly productive
and export-oriented sectors and to prepare annual investment programs.
3.   To prepare economic and financial aggregates.
4.   To formalize the procedures for economic selection of projects.
Principal Tasks
Internal training
1.   To increase the internal capacity of DPM to analyze, monitor and evaluate
development projects and to plan the investment program based principally on
economic criteria, through training programs and external assistance.
External Training
2.   To increase the capacity of other ministries, regional administrations
and project directors to prepare, plan. and execute projects through training,
seminars and the preparation of specific guidelines and requirements for
project analysis.
Project Preparation
3.   To assist technical ministries in preparing projects, particularly
in the directly productive sectors, to prepare financial and economic analyses
of prepared projects and, in coordination with the Department of Plan Financ-
ing (MPC) to prepare annual development programs.



_ 53 -                     ANNEX IV
Appendix 2
Page 2
4.   Project Monitoring
(i) to collect physical and financial data concerning project execution
from the responsible ministries or project authorities;
(ii) to prepare data on impediments to efficient implementation on
specific projects data for action by the Comite de Relance des
Investissements; and
(iii) to publish bimonthly data sheets, semiannual reports and annual
bulletins on the status of development project execution.
5.   To initiate, in conjunction with Bank completion and Operations Evalua-
tion Department missions, the ex post analysis of projects and the implica-
tions for future investment.
6.   To increase the portfolio of bankable projects in directly productive or
export-oriented sectors through sectoral, identification and preparation
studies implemented through the DPM or through the technical ministries.
7.   To make physical, financial and economic projections for current and
proposed projects in the plan.
8.   To analyze common bottlenecks in project execution and to propose reme-
dial steps.



- 54 -                 ANNEX IV
Appendix 3
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
Project Preparation Component - Criteria For Use
1.   The primary objective of the project preparation component is to
finance studies for directly productive or export-oriented development
projects utilizing improved procedures for project identification, selec-
tion, preparation or implementation.
2.   A secondary objective would be to improve the economic return of
existing or proposed projects, or as otherwise agreed with Government and
the Association.
3.   Not less than one-half of the proceeds of the credit allocated for
project preparation (US$1.2 million) would be used in the directly produc-
tive or export-oriented sectors (principally agriculture, industry, mining,
commerce, tourism and small-scale industry).
4.   The studies would be implemented by, and under the final control of,
the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation which would have power of approval
for terms of reference and consultant selection. The studies may assist
work in cooperation with any ministry.
5.   The specific studies and all terms of reference and consultant selec-
tion for the studies would be agreed by the Association.
6.   The DPM will review the progress of the studies and the appropriateness
of criteria for study selection, in consultation with the Association, at
yearly intervals, starting by August 1981.
7.   The DPM would ensure necessary consultancy and agreements with relevant
ministries prior to starting any study.



ANNEX IV
- 55 -                       Chart 1
SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PLANNING
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Activity                                    By When                      Responsibility
1.  project timetable agreed              At negotiations/June 4 '80        -
2.  DPM and DDI recruitment timetable
for advisors and Senegalese staff
agreed
3.  Ministerial Arrete merging Debt
with Investment Depts MEF
4.  Draft executive order
requiring project review by
and data submission to DPM
5.  Draft executive order requiring
civil servant named in each
ministry and project agency, to
to be responsible for contract
preparation and supervision                                          MEF
6.  (i) Create revolving fund 1/               October  '80              MPC
(ii) Issue executive orders                 October  '80              MPC/MEF/Primature
4 and 5 1/
7.  Retain advisors for DDM, DDI               Nov. 1 '80                MPC
and Primature
8.  Chief of DPM and chief of Debt
Division of DDI appointed                  Nov. 1 '80                MPC
9.  DPM and DDI professional staff
increased to 7                             Nov. 1 '80                MPC
10. DPM and DDI professional staff
increased to 11                            July 1 '81                MPC
11. DPM preliminary training schedule          Jan. 1 '81                DPM/Advisor
12. DPM final training schedule                May  1 '81                MPC/Advisor
13. Government/Bank review of                  Aug. 1 '81                MPC/DPM
study program                                                     consultant bank
1/   Conditions of effectiveness



