Report No. PID7021
Project Name                     Nicaragua-Telecommunications Sector (@)
Reform Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Telecommunications
Project ID No.                   NIPE55853
Borrower                         Government of Nicaragua (GON)
Implementing Agencies            Empresa Nicaraguense de Telecomunicaciones
(ENITEL) and Instituto Nicaraguense de
Telecomunicaciones y Correos    (TELCOR)
Date PID Prepared                November 2, 1998
Appraisal Date                   November 23, 1999
Projected Board Date             November 10, 1999
A.      COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
Nicaragua's telecommunications sector is one of the least developed in the
Americas, with access to telephone services estimated at less than 3 lines per
100 persons, compared to more than 15 in neighboring Costa Rica. Access to
telecommunications services is particularly scarce in poor rural areas, where
teledensity is less than 1 percent.
ENITEL, the national telecommunications operator and sole provider of fixed-
line telephony, is fully government-owned and has been very slow in
introducing new lines and services (particularly for businesses) and in
improving service quality. In addition, ENITEL is inefficient and lacks the
financial resources to make needed investments in the sector. Among the
challenges facing the company, that make it an inefficient service provider,
are its excess of staff, the low level of local tariffs, currently being
rebalanced, and its overall difficult financial situation, in particular high
levels of short term debt, which have a negative impact on its cash flow.
Cellular services are provided by NICACEL, a private telecommunications
services provider and a subsidiary of Bell South. With only two operators,
the most dominant of which is state-owned, Nicaragua's telecommunications
market is one of the most uncompetitive in the hemisphere, unable to attract
foreign investment.
The current regulatory regime dates back to 1982, with the establishment of
Instituto Nicaraguense de Telecomunicaciones y Correos (TELCOR). Its Director
General is nominated by the Government and has ministerial rank.     TELCOR's
personnel are poorly trained and lack the necessary equipment and systems to
carry out their functions. Tariffs reflect substantial cross subsidies.
International long distance service tariffs are set far above costs to
subsidize local service. TELCOR has been unable until very recently to
introduce the necessary tariff re-balancing to eliminate the current pricing
distortions. However, recent increases in local tariffs are beginning to
alleviate this problem.



In order to improve telecommunications services and compete in the global
economy, the Government initiated a reform program in 1995 to attract private
investment to the sector. The first step was the passing of the General
Telecommunications and Postal Services Law (Law 200). This law separated
policy setting and regulation (the role of TELCOR), from daily
telecommunications operations (the role of ENITEL). The law also clarified the
functions of TELCOR. TELCOR is responsible for granting concessions in all
telecommunications markets, including broadcasting, telephony, fixed radio,
mobile radio, aeronautic and maritime radio, and for granting licenses for the
operation of radio frequencies for transmitters. In addition, TELCOR is
responsible for solving interconnection and other operator disputes, enforcing
a non-discriminatory policy towards consumers, and protecting their interests
against abuse of dominant power by the operators. TELCOR is also responsible
for Postal Policy and Regulation;         Law 210 (see below) separated the
posts from the Ministry into a new entity, Correos de Nicaragua..
As part of the 1995 reform initiative, the Government also passed legislation
(Law 210) creating ENITEL and allowing for the privatization of 40t of ENITEL.
The privatization, however, was unsuccessful due to the rigidity of Law 210,
which required excessive investment obligations and forced the operator to
retain all employees. Moreover, the Government did not encourage ENITEL to
truly organize itself as a company by preparing adequate accounting systems
and financial procedures. The Government postponed the auction of ENITEL as
investors lost interest in the wake of the presidential elections.
With the election of the new Government in 1997, the privatization was re-
initiated with the passage of Law 293 that modified Law 210, in July 1998.
Supported partly by technical assistance financed by an IDA Institutional
Development Credit (#2690), and partly by the proposed Project, 40t of
ENITEL's shares will be sold to a strategic investor (preferred stock with
management control), 10t sold to ENITEL's workforce, and an additional 1l
given to ENITEL workers. Over the next three years, the Government has
committed to sell its remaining 49t through stock placements. The new ENITEL
will have investment obligations to expand and improve service throughout
Nicaragua, especially in rural areas. ENITEL will have three years
exclusivity over basic telephone services, starting with the date of the
privatization. At the end of the period, all services will be under full
competition.
In October 1998, the Government invited investors to participate in the
privatization of ENITEL through an international competitive bidding process.
Two operators pre-qualified in early December. However, due to ENITEL's
difficult financial situation these companies withdrew from the bidding in
April, 1999 causing the privatization process to fail for the second time.
ENITEL has high short term debt, and its low local tariffs did not provide
enough revenues to cover the debt service, pay a large payroll, and give
profits. Since then, the Government adopted an emergency plan to restore
health in ENITEL's finances, consisting of three measures: (1) an increase in
local tariffs (coupled with a decrease in international rates); (2) a
reduction of ENITEL's staff through a voluntary separation program; and (3) a
reduction in ENITEL's debt.
The privatization process has recently been restarted and is currently on
track and legal and financial advisors have been competitively selected. The
-2 -



international bidding process is expected to be completed by May 2000.
ENITEL needs to upgrade the software of its computer systems both in the
switching systems for the telephone network and the X25 data network systems
to comply with the year 2000 requirements.
The following sector issues will be addressed by this project:
Tariffs:   Historically, international rates have been pegged to the US
dollar, as international agreements to terminate calls in foreign countries
dictated settlement charges in hard currency. Also, rates were high,
reflecting the high costs to install and maintain international facilities.
Local rates were expressed in local currency, and as the currency devalued,
the Government did not adjust them to compensate, thereby reducing the rates
in real terms. However, the overall revenues of ENITEL were high, due to the
high number of international calls charged in US dollar terms.
In the last few years technological advances and the introduction of
competition in the telecommunications sector in the US, Europe and Asia, have
forced a reduction in international rates, as local rates in those countries
increasingly reflected actual costs. This has put a tremendous pressure on
ENITEL to increase local rates, as revenues from international calls have
plummeted. Making ENITEL a financially attractive property is key to
attracting a reputed operator to Nicaragua who will expand and improve
services. Therefore, correcting price distortions in the tariff structure will
be the first and foremost policy reform of the project.
ENITEL privatization:    The satisfactory completion of the privatization of
ENITEL is critical to the success of Nicaragua's telecommunications sector
reform effort. To finance the completion of this process and cover the costs
of technical assistance, the Government is seeking additional funding from
IDA. The US$1 million allocated from the Institutional Development Credit for
this initiative was intended to be initial and therefore did not cover all of
the necessary costs.
Law 293 requires ENITEL to commit to maintaining the number of employees
during its three-year exclusivity period. However, it will be given
flexibility to replace staff who do not have the required skills, as long as
ENITEL complies with the existing labor code. ENITEL has started a voluntary
separation program that offers workers a month of salary for each year of work
plus two months for each 5-year period of work. The program has been very
successful; since its adoption about 600 workers have resigned. ENITEL
expects to recover the cost of the program in about one year. ENITEL plans to
increase the amount of money allocated to this program with the assistance of
the Government in order to reduce the number of staff before privatization.
TELCOR:   Once ENITEL is privatized and Nicaragua opens up its
telecommunications sector, TELCOR's ability to effectively regulate the sector
becomes critical. Currently, TELCOR has neither the qualified staff nor the
systems to carry out its functions. Moreover, TELCOR is not independent from
the executive branch; the President continues to have overarching authority.
This project will support the institutional strengthening of TELCOR and
reforms to its charter to increase its independence from the Government.
As more players enter into the market, TELCOR will need to develop the ability
to design and execute new licenses, as specified in Law 200. First, new
- 3-



operators will need to interconnect to ENITEL, then to the other carriers, to
send and receive traffic. The terms of the interconnection, including
technical, price and opportunity, will be subject to negotiations between
parties as well as the sanctioning by TELCOR. Second, it will be important
that TELCOR enjoys independence from the executive branch, and has strong
technical capacity and sufficient resources to achieve these tasks.
In addition, TELCOR will have to develop mechanisms for consumer protection,
as required by Law. TELCOR must develop a system to handle consumer complaints
and working arrangements with operators to enforce concession and legal
procedures. Even though TELCOR will be a decentralized autonomous entity
based in Managua, it will have to develop offices throughout Nicaragua to keep
contact with consumers. A corporate relations office will also be necessary
to deal with major users like banks, insurance companies, industries, farmers,
and exporters.
Finally, TELCOR lacks the necessary equipment to effectively comply with one
of its most important functions today, the management and monitoring of the
radio spectrum. This function is even more critical today given the rapidly
growing demand for mobile, satellite and other wireless services, including
wireless Internet access and multimedia services, which will become
increasingly popular in the near future. Effective management of this scarce
resource requires modern spectrum management and monitoring equipment, that
will allow for international coordination of frequency allocations, spectrum
planning, registering of national frequency allocations, as well as detection
of interferences and fraudulent use of the radio frequency spectrum in support
of the associated enforcement function.
Competition:   The strengthening of TELCOR will also be critical in
Nicaragua's ability to prepare a solid and modern sector policy, as well as an
acceptable offer to the WTO Agreement on Basic Telecommunications. Nicaragua
being a signatory to the WTO, the GoN may make commitments to the WTO
Agreement on Basic Telecommunications, which will provide an appropriate
framework and timetable to liberalize, increase competition, and adhere to
internationally accepted regulatory standards.
Rural Access:     Rural areas have very limited access to service as distance,
isolation and lower incomes have made them less attractive to ENITEL. As
competition develops, TELCOR will have to encourage investment in rural areas,
which otherwise will not be adequately served by operators in the future.
Y2K:   ENITEL will upgrade the software of its exchanges for the telephone
network and the software of the X25 data packet network to overcome the year
2,000 problem.
B.      PROJECT OBJECTIVE
The project aims to strengthen the policy and regulatory environment in the
telecommunications sector and improve access to services.
Key success indicators of this objective are:
- Amendments to laws and regulations passed improving autonomy of
regulator
- Regulator strengthened and performing well
- Offer to the WTO Agreement on Basic Telecommunications submitted and
- 4 -



being implemented
- Improved quality, quantity and variety of services
- Spectrum monitoring system implemented and performing well
- Rural penetration of telecommunications services increased
- Successful implementation of Y2K remediation measures
- Successful completion of the privatization of Empresa Nicaraguense de
Telecomunicaciones (ENITEL)
C.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
The project will consist of six components as follows:
1)       Strengthen institutional capacity and policy functions of TELCOR.
Support to:
-       review and draft necessary legal amendments and regulations; and
-       assess and recommend institutional changes to TELCOR
- identify training needs and prepare action plan
- conduct training.
2)      Establish modern radio spectrum management and monitoring system.
Support to:
-       assess needs, develop tender and evaluate offers;
-       procurement of new system; and
-       training in use of the system and adaptation.
3)      Create rural telecommunications development fund.    Support to:
- prepare rural telecommunications strategy
-       analyze legal and economic issues and design new fund;
-       prepare fund guidelines and regulations;
-       undertake demand studies; and prioritize allocation of funds into
rounds
-       prepare bidding process
-       conduct first round of bidding process and allocate fund proceeds
-       finance development of pilot community information centers for
extension of the Internet and telephone service to rural areas.
4)      Completion of privatization of ENITEL.   Support for:
-       legal and financial technical assistance; and
-        public relations campaign.
5)      Project management.   Financial support to the implementing agency,
UCRESEP.
6)      Y2K. Upgrade of software for telephone system and data packet system
for the year 2,000.
D.      PROJECT BENEFITS
The project will benefit all telecommunications users in Nicaragua by
increasing the availability of telephone lines and improving service. The
introduction of competition in the sector and the stronger role of the
regulating agency will serve to control cost of services and also have a
favorable impact on service quality and variety.
The expansion and improvement of telecommunications services would contribute
- 5 -



to economic development and improve the quality of life by improving health
and education services and enhancing public administration. Residents of
rural areas, in particular, would benefit greatly by obtaining access to
telephone services, often for the first time.
Businesses, which increasingly depend upon telecommunication services to be
competitive, will benefit especially from lower costs for international
communications and greater variety of value-added services. Moreover, foreign
investors will be more attracted to Nicaragua if it has a modern
telecommunications sector.
Strengthening TELCOR would lead to more transparent and accountable regulatory
framework, reducing the risks and increasing the interest of private investors
(especially foreign) as operators would know the rules for licensing, tariff
adjustments, interconnection, etc. TELCOR would also gain by increasing its
capacity to manage radio spectrum and thereby ensure the availability of
frequencies and reduce radio interference problems. This would make private
investment in wireless technologies more attractive and improve the quality of
services offered.
The Government also has much to gain from privatization of ENITEL, proceeds of
which will be used for infrastructure investments, rural and social projects,
and debt reduction. In addition, greater competition among telecom operators
will lead to improved services and thereby stimulate economic growth,
resulting in greater revenues to the Government from operator licenses and tax
receipts.
E.      PROJECT FINANCING
IDA                              $US  15.9 million
Government Counterpart           $US    2.2 million
Total Project Cost               $US  18.1 million
F.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The project financial and administrative management unit for all components
would be UCRESEP (Unidad Coordinadora de la Reforma del Sector Publico),
within the Vicepresidency of the Republic. UCRESEP was established in 1995 as
the project management unit for the IDA Institutional Development Credit and
has performed satisfactorily in this function. A financial management and
accounting system, in accordance to new IBRD/IDA guidelines, would be in place
prior to project effectiveness.
Technical management of the ENITEL privatization process will continue to be
handled by a special unit within ENITEL. This unit reports directly to the
Executive President of ENITEL. A special unit within TELCOR will be in charge
of the management of technical project components related to TELCOR. This unit
will report directly to the Director General of TELCOR.
The Government has requested and obtained a Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
to prepare the Project. While the Government did receive some support from the
IDA Institutional Development Credit, it lacks the funding to conclude
ENITEL's privatization. To that end, the Government and IDA agreed on a 2
million PPF to finance the project preparation and to continue the
- 6 -



privatization of ENITEL.
G.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The project supports a sector reform process which is already well underway
and has full support from the Government. While the privatization of ENITEL is
integral to the Government's reform effort and is an important component of
the project, if it is not successfully concluded the remaining project
components are still viable. The institutional strengthening of TELCOR and the
creation of a rural telecommunications development fund can be accomplished
independently of ENITEL's corporate ownership.
If properly implemented, the project's benefits should be permanent since the
improved legal and regulatory framework would provide for adequate operational
and financial independence for TELCOR.
H.      LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS OPERATIONS
Lessons learned in other telecommunication restructuring and privatization
projects are reflected in the project design. These are:
- A clear, predictable regulatory framework is a prerequisite to attracting
investment in the sector;
- Government should create an independent, technical, and self-financed
regulatory entity to grant new licenses, solve disputes among operators and
protect the public interest;
- Government should not participate as a provider of telecom services, which
are more efficiently run by private companies; and
- The financial rate of return for telecom investments in rural areas may not
attract private firms. The Government could establish a financing mechanism
for telecom projects in rural areas.
I.      POVERTY CATEGORY
This project will encourage economic development of poor rural areas by
improving availability of telecom services and thus reducing rural isolation
and the poverty rate. The rural development fund will subsidize investments
to deploy telecommunications infrastructure in rural areas. In addition, as
competition develops, the fund will continue to encourage investment in rural
areas so that these areas are adequately served by operators in the future.
J.       ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
This is a telecommunications restructuring project which involves only
policy/institution-building components. There will be no
construction/installation of new telecommunication systems under the project.
The radio spectrum monitoring equipment to be financed by the project for use
by TELCOR receives radio and other electromagnetic signals to determine which
frequencies are in use and by whom. It produces no pollution, can be small
enough to fit inside a briefcase, and will be operated out of existing
-7 -



physical facilities. In addition, environmental guidelines will be built into
the design of the rural telecommunications development fund, to ensure no
negative environmental impact of rural communications.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project
- 8 -



