Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19810 NI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.6 MILLION
(US$ 15.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
October 28, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Unit
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 25, 1999)
Currency Unit = US dollars
NIO$1.0 = US$0.08
US$1.0 = NIO$12.15
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy of the International Development Association
ENITEL             Empresa Nicaraguiense de Telecomunicaciones
("Nicaraguan Telecommunications Enterprise")
ITU                International Telecommunications Union
LACI               Loan Administration Change Initiative (of IDA)
PMR                Project Management Report
PMU                Project Management Unit
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
RFP                Request for Proposal
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
TELCOR             Instituto Nicaragiiense de Telecomunicaciones y Correos
("Nicaraguan Institute of Telecommunications and Posts")
TOR                Terms of Reference
UCRESEP            Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Programa de Reforma del Sector Publico
("Public Sector Reform Program Coordinating Unit")
WTO                World Trade Organization
Vice President: David De Ferranti
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Task Manager: Eloy Vidal



- i -
Republic of Nicaragua
Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
TABLE Olf CONTENTS
Page No.
A: Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators ......................................................2
B:  Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project ..........................2
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy .................................................................3
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ...................................................5
C: Project Description  Summary .................................................................................7
1. Project Components ..............................................                 ..................                                           7
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project .........................................................8
3. Benefits and Target Population ................................................................                                                 8
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements .................................................................8
D:  Project Rationale .................................................................9
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ...............................................................9
2. Major Related Projects Financed by IDA  and/or other Development Agencies ................................. 10
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design ............................................................... 10
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ................................................................                                10
5. Added Value of IDA  Support in this Project ................................................................                                  11
E: Summary Project Analyses ................................................................                                                           11
1. Economic ................................................................ 11
2. Financial ................................................................                                                                     11
3. Technical ................................................................                                                                    12
4. Institutional ................................................................ 12
5. Social ................................................................                                                                       12
6.  Environmental Assessment ................................................................                                                    12
7. Participatory Approach ..........................                                                                                              13
F: Sustainability and Risks .............................................                                                                              13
1. Sustainability .............................                                                                                                   13
2. Critical Risks .............................                                                                                                   13
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .............................                                                                                  14
G: Main Loan Conditions .............................                                                                                                   14
H: Readiness for Implementation .............................                                                                                           15
I:  Compliance with IBRD/LDA  Policies .............................                                                                                   15



- ii -
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A. 1 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A.2  Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.   Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
MAP



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    I
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Republic of Nicaragua
Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Latin America and the Caribbean Department
Date: October 28, 1999                        Task Manager: Eloy Vidal
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo       Sector Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: 55853  Sector: Telecommunications   Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit    Program of Targeted Intervention:   [] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data    [] Loan         [X] Credit   [  Guarantee        [] Other
[Specify]
For Credits:
Amount: SDR 11.6 million equivalent (US$ 15.9 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                            [X] Multicurrency        [     Single currency (US$)
Grace period (years): 10 [I]  Standard Variable                [     Fixed   [  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard 1
Service charge: Standard
Financing plan (US$mln):
Source                           Local          Foreign           Total
IDA                                                         15.9              15.9
Government                                    2.1                              2.1
Total                                         2.1            15.9              18.0
Borrower: The Republic of Nicaragua
Executing Agency: UCRESEP
Estimated disbursements                          2000      2001      2002       2003       2004
(IDA FY/US$mln)
Annual              7.85      2.33      3.86       1.44        0.42
Cumulative          7.85     10.18     14.04      15.48        15.90
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: March 15,2000
Expected closing date: June 30, 2004
1 A variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance set annually by the Executive Directors



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    2
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
A. I'roject Development Objective
1. Jroject development objective and key performance indicators (please see Annex 1):
The Project will help strengthen the policy and regulatory environment in the telecommunications sector and
improve rural access to services by encouraging private investment in those areas. In particular, the Project will
support the development of a modem regulatory framework including the drafting and implementation of legal,
economic, and technical regulations related to tariff rebalancing, interconnection agreements, and technical
plans. In addition, support will be provided to strengthen and improve the autonomy of the regulatory agency
with responsibility for sector regulation, planning, and policy. The Project will support the design and
operations of a rural telecommunications development fund to provide incentives for private operators to
provide telecommunications services in rural areas. Technical and financial support will also be provided to the
new regulator for the establishment and maintenance of a radio spectrum management system. The Project will
fund Technical Assistance for the privatization of Empresa Nicaraguense de Telecommunicaciones (ENITEL),
and also measures to correct the computer programs of the telephone and data networks to overcome the year
200CI problem.
Key success indicators of this objective are:
*  Amendments to laws and regulations passed improving autonomy of regulator and promoting private
investment
*  Regulator strengthened and performing well
*  Offer to the WTO Agreement on Basic Telecommunications submitted
*  Improved quality, quantity and variety of services
*  Spectrum monitoring system implemented and performing well
*  Rural penetration of telecommunications services increased
*  Successful implementation of Y2K remedial measures
*  40% of shares of Empresa Nicaragiiense de Telecomunicaciones (ENITEL) offered for sale to a strategic
investor
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (please see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17496            Date of latest CAS discussion: April 9, 1998
The CAS goals on which the project will have an impact are the following (as further explained in the next two
sections):
a) Modernization of the state
The project will support the modernization of the state in general through the overall improvement in the
efficiency of the telecommunications sector, which will allow businesses, government agencies and the public in
gene.ral, to purchase both traditional and modern telecommunications services in better conditions of price,
quality and timeliness. Access to affordable and advanced telecommunications services is increasingly
becoming a key factor in enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of the productive sector.
In particular, the privatization of ENITEL and the institutional strengthening of TELCOR, will play a decisive
role in delivering this result. The former will reduce the demands for scarce public funds, liberating resources
for other important government objectives. The latter will



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    3
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
create a modem regulatory entity capable of maintaining high standards of service provision in the sector and
will benefit directly from the Project, becoming in itself, as a public entity, an example of public sector
efficiency.
b) Develop the rural sector
Ready access to telecommunications services of sufficient quality in rural areas is increasingly quoted as one of
the most important factors in overcoming isolation, enhancing economic activity and promoting social
integration of these areas with the rest of the country and with the global community, in general. The Project
will specifically target the provision of telecommunications services to the rural areas of Nicaragua, by
promoting the provision of both private and public telephones and Internet services, among others.
c) Consolidate growth through private sector development
In the same measure as the public sector, the private sector will benefit from enhanced access to modem
telecommunications services, promoting increased efficiency, better marketing and customer care, as well as a
wider range of products and services that can be delivered.
More directly, through the privatization of ENITEL and opening up the sector to private investment, the Project
would support the creation of one of the largest private enterprises in Nicaragua, and will act as a spearhead
toward the eventual introduction of private sector participation in other infrastructure sectors, with the generally
observed benefits of enhanced efficiency and transparency in the provision of public services.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
a) Main Sector Issues
* Low quality and level of access to services
There are only 3 telephone lines per 100 population in Nicaragua, compared to 10 per hundred average for Latin
America, and to 15 per 100 in neighboring Costa Rica. Access to telecommunications services is particularly
scarce in poor rural areas, where teledensity is less than 1 percent, and many of the municipalities do not have
telephone service. Quality of service is poor, with long waiting times to repair service, a large number of faults,
and high percentage of billing errors. Cellular services are provided only by NICACEL, a private
telecommunications services provider and a subsidiary of Bell South, in Managua, the center and pacific regions
of the country.
* ENITEL needs to improve its efficiency and effectiveness
ENITEL, the national telecommunications operator and sole provider of fixed-line telephone services, is filly
government-owned and has been very slow in introducing new lines and services (particularly for businesses
and government users) and in improving service quality. In addition, ENITEL needs to improve its efficiency
and lacks the financial resources to make needed investments in the sector. Among the challenges facing the
company, that contribute to inefficiencies as a service provider, are its excess of staff, the low level of local
tariffs, currently being rebalanced, and its overall difficult financial situation, in particular high levels of short
term debt, which have a negative impact on its cash flow.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    4
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
* Regulatory framework and TELCOR are inadequate
The current regulatory regime dates back to 1982, with the establishment of the Instituto Nicaraguense de
Telecomunicaciones y Correos (TELCOR), initially as both operator and regulator, but since 1995 only
regulator. The regulatory environment limits foreign investment in telecommunications companies to 49% of
their equity. TELCOR's Director General is nominated by the Government and has ministerial rank. Its
personnel are poorly trained and lack the necessary equipment and systems to carry out their functions,
particularly in the area of frequency spectrum management and monitoring. Tariffs reflect substantial cross
subsidies, with international long distance service tariffs set far above costs, subsidizing local service.
b) Government Strategy
* To improve the Regulatory Framework and to strengthen TELCOR
In order to improve telecommunications services and compete in the global economy, the Government initiated
a reform program designed to attract private investment to the sector. The first step was the passing of the
General Telecommunications and Postal Services Law (Law 200 of August 18, 1995), separating policy setting
and regulation (the role of TELCOR), from daily telecommunications operations (the role of ENITEL). The law
also clarified the functions of TELCOR.  TELCOR is responsible for granting concessions in all
telecommunications markets, including broadcasting, telephony, fixed radio, mobile radio, aeronautic and
maritime radio, and for granting licenses for the operation of radio frequencies for transmitters. In addition,
TELCOR is responsible for solving interconnection and other operator disputes, enforcing a non-discriminatory
policy towards consumers, and protecting their interests against abuse of dominant position by the operators.
HIowever, the law limits foreign investment and TELCOR's autonomy. The Government wants to promote
private sector participation in the sector through the improvement of the regulatory framework and the
strengthening of the regulatory institution.
e  To attract private sector participation in the Sector and in ENITEL
As part of the 1995 reform initiative, the Government also passed legislation (Law 210 of December 7, 1995)
creating ENITEL and allowing for the privatization of 40% of its shares. The privatization, however, was
unsuiccessful due to the rigidity of Law 210, which required excessive investment obligations and forced the
operator to retain all employees. Moreover, the Government did not encourage ENITEL to truly organize itself
as a company by preparing adequate accounting systems and financial procedures. The Government postponed
the auction of ENITEL as investors lost interest in the wake of the presidential elections of 1996.
Witlh the election of the new Government in 1997, the privatization was re-initiated with the passage of Law 293
of July 2, 1998, that modified Law 210. In October 1998, the Government invited investors to participate in the
privatization of ENITEL through an international competitive bidding process. Although two operators pre-
qualified in early December, they withdrew before the bidding was completed, inter-alia, because ofENITEL's
high short term debt, and because its low local tariffs did not provide enough revenues to cover the debt service,
pay a large payroll, and provide profits.
Since then, the Government adopted an emergency plan to restore health in ENITEL's finances, consisting of
three measures: (1) a sharp increase in local tariffs (coupled with a moderate decrease in international rates); (2)
a reduction of ENITEL's staff through a voluntary separation program; and (3) a restructuring of ENITEL's
debt. These measures prepared the ground for a renewed effort to privatize ENITEL.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    5
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
a) Change Regulatory Framework to attract private sector investment and promote competition
The Government analyzed the current regulatory framework and concluded that it needs to amend the
Telecommunications Law to promote private investment participation in the sector, in particular to eliminate the
current cap on foreign investment. Moreover, TELCOR is not independent from the executive branch; the
President continues to have overarching authority. The Project aims at improving TELCOR's operational
autonomy to consolidate it as a modern and professional regulatory entity.
One option that the Government considered, was the creation of a multi-sectoral regulatory entity. However, this
option will need amendment of the Laws and Regulations of several sectors, and dissolution of a recently
created electricity commission. The Government decided to increase the operational autonomy of TELCOR, as
opposed to creating a multi-sectoral entity, for reasons of simplicity and efficiency.
Correcting price distortions in the tariff structure will be another critical regulatory area which the Project will
address. Historically, international rates have been pegged to the US dollar, as international agreements to
terminate calls in foreign countries dictated settlement charges in hard currency. Also, high rates reflected the
high costs of installing and maintaining international facilities. Local rates were expressed in local currency, and
as the currency devalued, the Government did not adjust them to compensate inflation, thereby reducing the
rates in real terms. Nonetheless, for many years, the overall revenues of ENITEL were high because of the large
volume of calls charged in US dollar terms.
In the last few years, however,  technological advances and the introduction of competition in the
telecommunications sector in the US, Europe and Asia, have forced a reduction in international rates, as local
rates in those countries increasingly reflected actual costs. This has put a tremendous pressure on operators to
increase local rates, as revenues from international calls have plummeted. In a competitive environment, tariffs
have to be closely aligned with costs, in order for them to be both sustainable and non-discriminatory. Tariff
regulation is therefore an area in which TELCOR will need substantial assistance.
b) TELCOR strengthening
Once ENITEL is privatized and Nicaragua opens up its telecommunications sector, TELCOR's ability to
effectively regulate the sector becomes critical. As more players enter the market, TELCOR will need to
develop the ability to design and execute new licenses, as specified in the Telecommunications Law. First, new
operators will need to interconnect to ENITEL, then to the other carriers, to send and receive traffic. The terms
of interconnection, both technical and financial, will be the subject of negotiations between parties as well as of
disputes, which will have to be eventually solved with TELCOR's mediation.
In addition, TELCOR will have to develop mechanisms for consumer protection, as required by Law. TELCOR
must develop a system to handle consumer complaints and working arrangements with operators to enforce
concession and legal procedures. Even though TELCOR will be a decentralized autonomous entity based in
Managua, it will have to develop offices throughout Nicaragua to keep contact with consumers. A corporate
relations office will also be necessary to deal with major users like banks, insurance companies, industries,
farmers, and exporters.
Furthermore, TELCOR lacks the necessary equipment to effectively comply with one of its most important
functions, the management and monitoring of the radio spectrum. This function is even more critical today given
the rapidly growing demand for mobile, satellite and other wireless services, including wireless Internet access
and multimedia services, which will become increasingly popular in the near future. Effective management of
this scarce resource requires modern spectrum management and monitoring equipment, that will



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    6
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
allow for international coordination of frequency allocations, spectrum planning, registering of national
frequency allocations, as well as detection of interferences and fraudulent use of the radio frequency spectrum in
support of the associated enforcement function. The Project will support the design, preparation of bid
speci]fications, purchase, installation, testing, and commissioning of a modem radio frequency management and
monitoring system, and training of TELCOR's staff in its use.
Currently, TELCOR has neither the qualified staff nor the systems to carry out its functions effectively. The
Project will support the institutional strengthening of TELCOR, including inter-alia technical assistance to
develop regulations, issue licenses, review tariff policies, draft interconnection agreements, and a complete
training program for TELCOR's staff, in addition to the procurement of the above-mentioned spectrum
management and monitoring system.
c) Privatization of ENITEL
With the support of the Project, fourty percent of ENITEL's shares and management control will be sold to a
strategic investor, ten percent to ENITEL's workforce, and an additional one percent given to ENITEL workers.
Over the next three years, the Government has committed to sell its remaining 49% through stock placements.
The new ENITEL will have investment obligations to expand and improve service throughout Nicaragua.
ENITEL will have three years exclusivity over basic telephone services, starting on the date of the privatization.
At the end of the period, all services will be under full competition.
Local tariffs were substantially increased in September, while international tariffs were reduced, providing a
10% overall revenue increase for ENITEL. Additionally, the Government has started a voluntary separation
program that offers workers a month of salary for each year of work plus two months for each 5-year period of
work. The program has been very successful; since its adoption about 600 workers have resigned. ENITEL
expects to recover the cost of the program in about one year. ENITEL plans to increase the amount of money
allocated to this program with the assistance of the Govemment in order to reduce the number of staff before
privatization. Coupled with the reduction of 20% of costs, these two measures have increased the attractiveness
of the company.
An additional measure, to restructure its debt, is underway. These three measures have prepared ENITEL for a
new privatization process. Making ENITEL a financially attractive property is key to attracting a reputed
operator to Nicaragua who will expand and improve services. Invitations to prospective investors to pre-qualify
for the bid were issued on September 22, 1999, and the process is expected to be completed in May of 2000.
d) Increased access to telecommunications services in the rural areas.
Because of their isolation, rural areas need ready access to telecommunications services even more than urban
areas. However, the sparse population, remoteness and difficult topography of the villages, as well as the lower
incomes of their population, reduce the supply of rural telephones. The Government has recognized the need to
provide telephone services to the poorest of Nicaragua and has decided to create a Fund from operator's
contributions to provide financial incentives to private companies to invest in the rural areas.
The Fund, managed by TELCOR, will operate by inviting operators to bid for licenses to operate rural
telecommunication services in the rural areas of a defined region of the country (rural sub-projects). The Fund
will aeward a license and financial incentives to the operator that commits to install, for the minimum subsidy,
the required number and type of telephone lines, payphones and Internet access points in the target region,
according to the terms of the bid specification.
The Project will support the creation of the Fund, development of the Operational Manual, demand studies and
will finance a limited number of rural sub-projects.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          7
Nicaragua                                                          Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
e) Mitigation measures for the year 2000 computer problem.
ENITEL needs to upgrade the software and hardware of its computer systems both in the telephone exchanges
and the X.25 data network used by the banking system to exchange information, to comply with the year 2000
requirements. The Project will support the software and hardware upgrades for the telephone exchanges and
data network. Since January 1 is only a few weeks away, ENITEL has already contracted the supply of these
upgrades, and will request reimbursement under the proposed Credit. The Government has requested IDA to
allocate up to ten percent of the Credit amount for retroactive financing for this component.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (please see Annex 1):
Indicative    % of     IDA-       % of IDA-
COMPONENT                             Category       Costs      Total    financing    financing
__       (t.)    _(S$m
]) Strengthen the institutional capacity and policy functions of  Policy/  2.48     14%        2.12         85%
TELCOR:                                               Institution
* review and draft necessary legal amendments and       building
regulations (e.g. to make the entity more independent;
model licenses; tariff re-balancing; consumer protection;
interconnection agreements; environmental regulations)
* assess and recommend institutional changes to TELCOR
(e.g., structure, management, procedures, administration)
* identify training needs and prepare action plan
* conduct training
2) Establish modem radio spectrum management and        Institution       4.35      24%        3.89         90%
monitoring system:                                    building
* Assess needs, develop tender and evaluate offers
* Procurement of new system
* Training in use of the system and adaptation
3) Create rural telecommunications development fund:    Policy/           1.44       8%         1.26        88%
* prepare rural telecommunications strategy             Institution
* analyze legal and economic issues and design new fund  building/
* prepare fund guidelines and regulations               Investment
* undertake demand studies and prioritize allocation of funds
into rounds
* prepare bidding process
* conduct first round of bidding process and allocate fund
proceeds
* finance development of pilot community informnation centers
(telecenters), for extension of the Internet and telephone
service to rural areas
4) On-going privatization of ENITEL:                    Policy            3.93      22%         3.39        86%
* legal and financial technical assistance
* public relations campaign
5) Project management. Financial support to the implementing  Project     1.47       8%         1.31        90%
agency                                                Management
6) Y2K. Upgrade of software for telephone system and data    Emergency    4.33      24%        3.92         90%
packet system for the year 2,000
TOTAL                                             18.00      100%       15.90        88%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    8
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
2. KEey policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
*  TELCOR institutional strengthening and increased operational autonomy
*  Installation of modem spectrum management and monitoring system
*  Tariff rebalancing
*  Support for ENITEL privatization process
*  Full liberalization of the sector
9  Improvement of access to service in rural areas
O  Support for the introduction of new telecommunications services
3. -Benefits and target population:
The project will benefit all telecommunications users in Nicaragua by increasing the availability of telephone
lines and improving service. The introduction of competition in the sector and the stronger role of the regulating
agency will serve to control cost of services and also have a favorable impact on service quality and variety.
The expansion and improvement of telecommunications services would contribute to economic development
and improve the quality of life by improving health and education services and enhancing public administration.
Residents of rural areas, in particular, would benefit greatly by obtaining access to telephone services, often for
the first time.
Businesses, which increasingly depend upon telecommunication services to be competitive, will benefit
especially from lower costs for intemational communications and greater variety of value-added services.
Moreover, foreign investors will be more attracted to Nicaragua if it has a modem telecommunications sector.
Strengthening TELCOR would lead to more transparent and accountable regulatory framework, reducing the
risks and increasing the interest of private investors (especially foreign) as operators would know the rules for
licensing, tariff adjustments, interconnection, etc. TELCOR would also gain by increasing its capacity to
manage radio spectrum and thereby ensure the availability of frequencies and reduce radio interference
problems. This would make private investment in wireless technologies more attractive and improve the quality
of services offered.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project financial and administrative management unit for all components would be UCRESEP (Unidad
Coordinadora de la Reforma del Sector Publico), within the Vicepresidency of the Republic. UCRESEP was
established in 1995 as the project management unit for the IDA Institutional Development Credit and has
performed satisfactorily in this function. A financial management and accounting system, in accordance to IDA
guidelines, is in place. However, UCRESEP will implement the new LACI system for production of PMRs.
Technical management of the ENITEL privatization process will continue to be handled by a special unit within
ENIT EL. This unit reports directly to the Executive President of ENITEL. A special unit within TELCOR will
be in charge of the management of technical aspects of the project components related to TELCOR. This unit
will report directly to the Director General of TELCOR.
The implementation arrangements will be reflected in implementation agreements to be signed by effectiveness
with TELCOR and ENITEL.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    9
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
The Government and IDA agreed on a 2 million PPF to finance the project preparation and to continue the
privatization of ENITEL.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
IDA's strategy for the telecommunications sector calls for shifting the government's role from ownership and
operations to policy making and regulation, promoting efficiency and service quality, and increased private
sector participation in investments and provision of services. The proposed project approach is consistent with
this strategy, while other alternatives were rejected because they were not.
The first alternative was to introduce competition in the market by strengthening the current Government-
dependent regulator rather than seeking to increase the regulator's independence. However, since a direct
linkage between the regulator and the Government would severely restrict the former's ability to arbitrate in a
competitive market free of political pressures, this approach was rejected.
The second alternative was to focus only on the reform of the regulator and not include the privatization
component, since it is already an on-going process. This alternative, however, would put the current
privatization process at risk, since the funds currently available for that process had been depleted by January
1999. The best chance to achieve real sector reform is to provide additional funding for the privatization
together with improving the regulatory function. Thus these two components are mutually reinforcing.
Another alternative which was considered was a cross-sectoral regulatory body (power, water,
telecommunications, etc.) in order to achieve economies of scope/scale. During project preparation an
economic consultant explored this option and provided a report on an entity that would combine the Electricity,
Water and Telecommunications Sectors. However, this option was rejected because it would have required
amendments of the Electricity and Water laws and the dissolution of the newly created electricity commission.
Also considered was the question of what happens with the Project if the Privatization of ENITEL does not take
place because of lack of investors' interest. The answer is that the project would continue to be viable for
several reasons. First, an improved legal and regulatory framework would attract investment to the country.
Second, a strengthened Regulator would instill confidence to investors, that would see their investment secure as
they could discuss issues and resolve problems with a capable institution. Third, people and businesses in the
rural areas would benefit from the operation of the rural fund, since they would gain access to
telecommunication services. Therefore, the Project is beneficial even if the privatization is not successful.
However to ensure that the Rural Development Fund is used to finance private companies only, the new Rural
Fund Regulations will be reviewed with IDA, and a disbursement condition for this component would be agreed
with the Government.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        10
Nicaragua                                                         Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
2. Major related projects financed by IDA   and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
_ w ::;i:0 ; ; ; : 0 : --0- 003; ~~~~~LatestSuprisio  (Form t590) Raitings0
\~~SCO ISSUE                                       PROJECTSS? 
IDA-financed:
Nicaragua: Modernization of public sector to  Institutional Development Credit      S                   S
facilitate private sector development; includes
privatization of ENITEL
Nicaragua: Reduce rural poverty, includes    Rural Municipalities Project          HS                   HS
institutional development as a component (relates
to rural service fund)
Nicaragua: Improve efficiency, effectiveness and   Health Sector Modernization      S                   S
equity of Nicaraguan health system (relates to
possible tele-medicine applications)
OECS: Opening sector to competition and      Telecommunications Sector              S                   S
creat:ion of a regulator                     Reform Project
Dominican Republic: strengthen regulator and  Telecommunications Regulatory
expand rural telecom services                Project (not yet effective)
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank: Nicaragua:  Power Sector Reform and
creation of new regulatory framework for power   Investment Project (in
sector                                       preparation)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
Lessons learned in other telecommunication restructuring and privatization projects are reflected in the project
design. These are:
*   A clear, predictable regulatory framework is a prerequisite to attracting investment in the sector;
*   Government should create an independent, technical, and self-financed regulatory entity to grant new
licenses, solve disputes among operators and protect the public interest;
*   Government should not participate as a provider of telecom  services, which are more efficiently run by
private companies; and
*   The financial rate of return for telecom  investments in rural areas may not attract private firms. The
G,overnment could establish a financing mechanism for telecom projects in rural areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The strength of the Government of Nicaragua's commitment to privatization and strengthening the regulatory
framework for telecommunications is demonstrated by:
*   Enactment of Law 210 which separated ENITEL and TELCOR functions.
* Enactment of Law 293 in July 1998 to allow privatization of ENITEL.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   11
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
*  Privatization process begun with creation of unit within ENITEL and competitive selection of legal and
financial advisors.
*  Official launching of the privatization process of ENITEL published in the Financial Times on
September 22, 1999.
*  Reduction in the number of ENITEL staff by 600.
*  Initiation of restructuring of ENITEL's debt.
*  Tariff increases in January and September 1999.
5. Added value of IDA support in this project:
The Government of Nicaragua values IDA for its worldwide experience in telecommunications, privatization
and the modernization of regulatory frameworks, as well as for its overall coordination of such programs.
IDA's presence also lends international credibility to the privatization process, which may encourage more
competitive bidding and thereby improve the private provision and efficiency of telecommunications services.
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
The relatively strong performance of the telecommunications sector in recent years has made a significant
contribution to the country's economic growth. Taking into account the benefits of the reform program
supported by the project and the high levels of unmet demand, it is expected that the average annual rate of
growth of the telecommunications sector over the next several years will gradually reach close to 15% and will
taper off slightly thereafter.
The economic benefits of the project are likely to include: increased competition; improved range and quality of
service provision; reduced prices for advanced services that will allow businesses and the Government to reduce
telephony costs and expand their use of information technology; and expanded access to telecommunications in
rural areas. Leveraging rural subsidies with a broader sectoral reform program will yield significant returns over
the longer term. Indeed, the total costs of the subsidies are likely to be a small fraction of the returns.
Increased telecommunications access to international markets will allow for reduced purchasing costs and new
export opportunities, especially in the services sector. Advanced information services also have wide-ranging
applications in health care and education, and these will become more affordable as prices fall. Such indirect
benefits, although difficult to quantify, are certain to far outweigh the directly measured impact.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):
As shown in Annex 4, the project will have an internal rate of return of 23%, according to the assumptions made
and the detailed financial analysis (in the Project File) that was conducted to evaluate the financial impact of the
project.
Tariff rebalancing: To better reflect actual costs and thereby encourage competition in local services, TELCOR
has recently (September 1999) allowed increases in the tariffs for monthly line rental and local calls. Despite
these increases, however, cross-subsidies still exist between international and local services. To correct this
further, there is a need for prices of local services to gradually reflect costs. To this end, the project would
support studies for tariff rebalancing which will be submitted to TELCOR for study and approval. In addition, a
progressive tariff rebalancing scheme will be included in ENITEL's new operating license, to prepare the
company for competition after the transitory period.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 12
Nicaragua                                            Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Fiscal impact. The financial analysis (in the Project File) suggests that, overall, there will be a positive fiscal
impact for the Government, primarily due to increased growth in the sector. Amendments to the law, to be
proposed and approved with the help of the project, will allow for the imposition of a new 1% levy on end-user
telecommunications services and net international settlements. The revenues from this levy will be allocated to
the rural telecommunications development fund for its operations to subsidize the expansion of
telecommunications services in rural areas.
3. Technical:
Teclhnical viability is mostly a concern for the equipment required for radio spectrum monitoring and direction-
finding. While this equipment is readily available, it is highly specialized. Portable monitoring and direction-
finding equipment is required for compliance and interference resolution. To minimize technical risks associated
with, this project activity, the following requirements have been built into the component design:
a.   A technical training program for TELCOR personnel on radio spectrum management, monitoring, and
measuring; and
b.   Procurement of radio spectrum management and monitoring equipment, which will be on a turn-key basis
and include engineering, installation, commissioning, testing, systems training, one-year warranty, one-
year operational support, and Y2K compliance.
4. IThstitutional:
Executing agency: UCRESEP.
The Government of Nicaragua will be the borrower. TELCOR created a unit that will be responsible for the
policy, economic, and technical tasks of the Project related to their components: Institutional strengthening of
TELCOR, Radio Spectrum Management, Rural Fund. ENITEL created a unit that will be responsible for the
economic, technical and financial tasks related to the Privatization of ENITEL and Year 2000 components.
UCRESEP will be in charge of Procurement, Administration and Accounting tasks of 'the Project. The
privatization unit in ENITEL will cease to exist after the transaction is closed. AsTELCOR's unit develops
capacity to handle the procurement, administration and accounting tasks of the Project, this unit will assume
UCRESEP's functions, under an amendment to the Credit documents and the implementation agreement to be
signed by TELCOR for effectiveness. The project management component provides resources for key staff of
the I'MU and executing agencies, office equipment/supplies, as well as long-term technical assistance to the
regulator (estimated for the first year after new legislation is passed). An important aspect oflDA's supervision
of the project will be to ensure that adequate resources are, in fact, being dedicated to the project and that project
management tasks are being undertaken in a timely manner by appropriate personnel.
5. Social:
Studies will be undertaken to identify the communication needs of rural areas, design a Fund to provide
financial incentives for private sector provision of services and the process for bidding to extend coverage to
these areas, on a least cost subsidy basis.
6. Environmental assessment.
Environmental category: C
This is a telecommunications restructuring project which involves only policy/institution-building components.
There will be no construction/installation of new telecommunication systems under the project. The radio
spectrum monitoring equipment to be financed by the project for use by TELCOR receives radio and other
electromagnetic signals to determine which frequencies are in use and by whom. It produces no pollution, can



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    13
Nicaragua                                                       Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
be small enough to fit inside a briefcase, and will be operated out of existing physical facilities. In addition,
environmental guidelines will be built into the design of the rural telecommunications development fund, to
ensure no negative environmental impact of rural communications.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
This project is intended to benefit all telecommunication users, especially poor and rural citizens that
currently do not have access to services.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Telephone operators (ENITEL and NICACEL) have been consulted. ENITEL is, of course, integrally
involved in the privatization component.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project supports a sector reform process which is already well underway and has full support from the
Government. While the privatization of ENITEL is integral to the Government's reform effort and is an
important component of the project, if it is not successfully concluded the remaining project components are still
viable. The institutional strengthening of TELCOR and the creation of a rural telecommunications development
fund can be accomplished independently of ENITEL's corporate ownership.
If properly implemented, the project's benefits should be permanent since the improved legal and regulatory
framework would provide for adequate operational and financial independence for TELCOR.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                            Risk Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
Sector Related CAS Objective
Political will to give regulator autonomy wanes           M         Secure consensus of Government before draft
laws are considered
Government delays execution of project                    M         High profile of the ENITEL privatization
initiative by including as condition of ESAF in
IMF program
Regulatory agency staff are not sufficiently qualified and  M       Regulator has flexibility/ autonomy in staffing
agency does not have adequate financial resources                   decisions existing budgetary resources available
until license fees generated
Investors not interested in privatized ENITEL              H         Design the privatization process to make
ENITEL attractive to potential investors
Project Outputs
Inadequate quality of preparatory and other technical outputs  N    PPF to finance preparation; IDA's non-objected
TORs for external assistance
Inadequate capacity to implement project                  N         IDA to continue to work with UCRESEP under
PPF
Overall Risk Rating                                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      14
Nicaragua                                              Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
3. lossible ControversialAspects (ProjectAlert System):
Lack of social acceptance of privatization plan  S  M        Public relations campaign designed to stress
benefits
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity),
0 (Other); Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. E,ffectiveness Condition
The Government will enter into an Agreement under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, with TELCOR
for components 1, 2 and 3 of the Project (as defined in C. 1, Project Description Summary), and with ENITEL
for components 4 and 6 of the Project (as in Cl.) setting forth their respective responsibilities for
implementation.
The Government will submit to IDA satisfactory evidence that it has carried out the Action Plan to improve
procurement management, organization and functions (see Annex 6).
2. Disbursement conditions:
Disbursement condition for the Rural Development Fund component would be the preparation and approval by
IDA of the Rural Development Fund Operational Manual that will include the procedures for implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the Rural Telecommunication Subprojects, the procedures for the selection of the
Eligible Enterprises including the procurement requirements as per Section 3.13 (a) of the Guidelines for
Procurement under IDA Credits and the environmental safeguards of Rural Telecommunication Subprojects to
IDA.
3. Dated Covenants:
By August 31, 2000, submit to its National Assembly a Draft Law, satisfactory to IDA, to strengthen the
operational autonomy of TELCOR and to promote increased private sector investment in the Sector.
By December 31, 2000, the Government will furnish to IDA the Staff Recruitment and Training Plan (the Staff
Development Plan) to be carried out in component 1 of the Project (as of C. 1, above).
By October 31, 2001, the Government will submit a report to IDA assessingTELCOR's capacity to assume full
implementation of the components 1, 2, and 3 of the Project (as described in Section C. 1.)
4. Accounts/Audits:
The Government is selecting the Audit Firm for the Project audit. The PMU will work with the Audit firm to
carry out interim audit work throughout the year, aiming at the timely conclusion of the Audit within the
specified timeframe. The PMU shall prepare and provide acceptable audits for all accounts to IDA. Annual
standard project financial audits will be carried out according to terms of reference acceptable to IDA and shall
be furnished to IDA no later than six months after the close of the project's financial year (December 31).
Initially, the PMU will use the Statement of Expenditures' procedure for replenishment of the Special Account.
However, according to the Action Plan agreed with the Government (see Annex 6), as soon as the PMU
becomes compliant with IDA's Loan Administration Change Initiative program, it will produce and submit to



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    15
Nicaragua                                              Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
IDA a Project Management Report (PMR), which allows for the simultaneous monitoring of financial, physical,
and procurement activity of the project, while also serving as an application for disbursement from the credit
account if so desired.
5. Procurement/Project implementation:
The responsibilities for project management shall initially reside in UCRESEP, until the Institutional
Development Unit in TELCOR is fully operational, at which time this unit shall be responsible for project
management, after satisfactory assessment or Procurement and Financial Management capacity of TELCOR.
The Government will review with the IDA the progress in the capacity of TELCOR to assume full
implementation of the Project.
By March 31, June 30 September 30 and December31 of each year, the PMU shall prepare a quarterly progress
reports of the monitoring and evaluation activities of the Project. The Borrower shall review these reports with
IDA not later than October 31 of each year.
The PMU shall conduct a mid-term review on or about October 31, 2001 to evaluate progress of
implementation against planned objectives.
The PMU shall prepare a project Implementation Completion Report to be submitted to IDA not later than six
(6) months after the closing date of June 30, 2004.
The PMU shall furnish to IDA not later than six (6) months after the closing date a plan for the future operation
of the project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and readv for the start of project
implementation.
[XI The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with IBRDlIDA Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]                                         _--
Task Manager: Eloy Eduardo Vidal_
[signature]
Sector Director: Danny Leipziger_
[signature]
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          16
Nicaragua                                                                    Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Nicaragua Telecommunications Sector Reform
Narrative Summary   Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and   Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                                    (Goal to IDA Mission)
1) Modernization of the state       . Strengthened planning and regulatory     IDA analysis
capacity of the state
2) Devel cp the rural sector        . Reduction in rural isolation and poverty    ITU data                  Overall macroeconomic and
rate                                                                  political stability
3) Consclidate growth through private  . Increased private investment in the sector    Govemment statistics
sector development
Project Development Objective                                                                                (Objective to Goal)
Strengthen the policy and regulatory    . New regulator established and performing    TELCOR, ITU, WTO and  Continued Government
environment in the                    well (issuing licenses, handling         government statistics        commitment to inviting private
telecommunications sector and         complaints, assigning spectrum)                                       participation in infrastructure
improve access to services          * WTO offer submitted w/in 2 yrs with      Project supervision
commitments toward full liberalization
* Implementation of WTO offer begun
* Number of lines (fixed and mobile) per
100 people at least doubled w/in 3 yrs
. Rural access to telecom services increased
by 200%
* Overall improvement in quality of services
(e.g., shorter waiting list, higher
completion rates, lower fault rates)
. Increased variety of services offered
. 40% of ENITEL's shares offered for sale
to a strategic investor
. All services using cost-oriented
methodologies for tariffs by yr. 3
Outputs:                                                                                                    (Outputs to Objective)
1) Strengthen institutional capacity  . Changes in regulatory framework        Project supervision          Political will to give regulator
and policy functions of TELCOR        identified and implemented (e.g., draft                               sufficient degree of autonomy
laws/regulations to give TELCOR
operational autonomy)                                                 Timely execution of project by
. Changes made to structure, management,                                Government
procedures, administration to reflect
operational autonomy                                                  Regulatory agency has qualified
* Tariffs rebalanced                                                    staff and adequate financial
. Model licenses developed                                              resources
. Mechanisms for consumer protection put
in place
* Model interconnection agreements
developed
. Training needs identified and action plan
prepared
. Improved productivity of regulator (timely
processing of licensing, consumer
complaints and other requests)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         17
Nicaragua                                                          Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Project Design Summary
Nicaragua Telecommunications Sector Reform
(cont' d.)
2) Modernize radio frequency   * Frequency allocation requests and  Project supervision
spectrum management and         interference complaints handled
monitoring function             through new system
* Annual increase in number of licensed
transmitters
3) Create rural development    * Operational regulations enacted to  Project supervision
fund                            create fund
* Fund operational
* First round of bidding process
completed
4) ENITEL privatization        * Public relations campaign undertaken   Project supervision  Social acceptance of
* Initial 40% offered for sale to strategic                   privatization plan
investors w/in I yr; 11% to workers
Investors willing to participate
in privatization
5) Guarantee Y2K compliance    * Software updates for switching     Project supervision
of all telecommunications       equipment installed
equipment
Project Components/Sub-   (costs include contingencies)                                      (Components to
components:                                                                                  Outputs)
I) TELCOR Institutional                                                                      Adequate quality of
strengthening:                             US$2.48 m                project progress reports    preparatory and other
I a) establish national                                                                      technical outputs
telecommunications policy
I b) propose commitments to
WTO
I c) propose changes and draft
necessary amendments to legal
and regulatory environment
I d) analyze and recommend
changes to regulations, such as
tariff rebalancing,
interconnection agreements,
model licenses
le) review and propose
institutional changes to
TELCOR
I f) identify training needs,
prepare action plan and conduct
training of managers and staff
Ig) information systems
lh) establish institutional
development unit
2) Establishment of a modem                US$4.35 m                project progress reports
radio spectrum management
system:
2a) Consultancy to assess needs,
develop tender and evaluate
offers
2b) Procurement of new system
2c) Training in use of the system
and adaptation



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         18
Nicaragua                                                          Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Project Design Summary
Nicaragua Telecommunications Sector Reform
(cont'd.)
3) Rural development fund                  US$1.44 m                project progress reports
3a) corisultancy to establish rural
teleconmmunications strategy
3b) consultancy to analyze legal
requirements for the fund
3c) consultancy to undertake
demand studies
3d) consultancy to prepare fund
guidelines and regulations,
prepare and conduct first round
of biddJing process for allocation
of fund proceeds
3e) investment into the fund for
allocation of first round
subsidies to subprojects
4) Additional financing for                US$3.93 m                project progress reports
technical assistance for the on-
going privatization of ENITEL
4a) consultancy by international
legal advisers
4b) consultancy by investment
bank
4c) financial audit
4d) public relations campaign
5) Project management                      US$1.47 m                project progress reports  Adequate capacity to
implement project
6) Y2K mitigation                          US$4.33 m.               project progress reports



Project Appraisal Document                                                                19
Nicaragua                                           Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Annex 2
Telecommunications Sector Reform
Project Description
Project Component 1: TELCOR Institutional strengthening: US$2.48 million (total cost of component)
The Government of Nicaragua seeks to endow the Regulatory Entity for the Telecommunications Sector,
TELCOR, with enhanced capacities and operating autonomy to regulate and arbitrate in a sector that will be
gradually opening to competition and attracting new players. These will demand agile response to their needs in
terns of licenses, radio spectrum and numbering resource allocations, interconnection agreement validation, as
well as neutral and timely resolution of disputes. Society as a whole will also demand that the regulator
guarantee the delivery of services to all citizens and the handling of consumer complaints in an effective and
efficient manner.
Given that TELCOR's Director General is indeed a Minister appointed by the President of the Republic,
TELCOR is incapable of dealing with all these tasks without government interference. This component will
provide a solid basis for TELCOR to develop into a truly independent and capable regulatory entity.
Specifically, this component will provide the technical assistance to address the policy, legal and regulatory
issues regarding the establishment of a truly competitive telecommunications sector with an independent
regulator at its heart.
The following sub-components are part of the institutional strengthening of TELCOR:
la) Consultancy to establish a national telecommunications sector policy:
The Government of Nicaragua lacks an explicit statement regarding their vision and strategy towards the
telecommunications sector in the country. The only statement of telecommunications sector policy is implicit,
embedded in the various sector laws and decrees. Establishing a clear set of policy guidelines will help
legislators and regulators in their task of modernizing the telecommunications sector and give the market a
strong signal of the determination of the Government to open up the sector to competition and promote private
investmnent. The consultancy should finally propose a long-term strategy, with a participatory approach, to
policy development and reform.
lb) Consultancy to draft an offer to the WTO Agreement on Basic Telecommunications
Based on the output of subcomponent la), the consultant will prepare a set of commitments to the WTO
Agreement on Basic Telecommunications, in consultation with both TELCOR and the Minister of Trade. The
Government will submit the country's commitments to the WTO.
Ic) Legal consultancy to review legal and regulatory environment, propose changes to sectoral laws and draft
necessary amendments, with the objective of improving the independence of TELCOR
This technical assistance will review the legal and regulatory framework of the telecommunications sector in
Nicaragua and propose amendments to legislation to guarantee the independence of the regulatory agency. In
reviewing the regulatory regime, the consultant will identify regulations that need to be amended as well as new
regulations needed. The consultant will also assess the possibility of establishing a multisectoral regulatory
agency to regulate the "utility" sectors of energy, telecommunications and water, propose an action plan and the
per-tinent amendments to legislation to take this into effect.



Prcject Appraisal Document                                                                  20
Nicaragua                                            Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Id) Regulatory consultancy to analyze sector regulations, recommend and draft amendments and new
regulations (e.g., tariff regulation, interconnection agreements, model licenses, technical regulations and
standards), including the environmental concerns, both regarding physical layout of lines as well as
consideration for potential impacts and mitigation measures in sensitive areas, and generally support TELCOR
on a long-term basis
This long term consultancy is aimed at creating a coherent corpus of telecommunications regulation and
technical plans, based on the amended legislation, covering the areas of licensing, interconnection, equipment
type approval, frequency allocation and spectrum management, numbering plan and universal service, among
others.
le) Consultancy to review and propose institutional changes to TELCOR, organizational structure,
management, procedures, administration, and propose an action plan to transfer stafffrom the old to the new
structure
This subcomponent will help determine the optimum organizational structure of the new regulatory entity,
assess its staffing needs and propose a transition plan to make the structure evolve from its present to its desired
state. It will review and propose changes to internal procedures for all its functions, and propose a master
information systems plan to automate these procedures.
1]) Consultancy to recruit and train management and staff of TELCOR
Once the new structure of the strengthened TELCOR is decided, and a transition plan agreed upon, the skills of
existing staff will have to be assessed, and a decision made as to who will be retained and retrained by the new
regulator. Any redundancies (not financed through this project) will be consistent with applicable labor laws as
well as with World Bank guidelines regarding severance payments. The potential risk that labor redundancies
entail will be mitigated by the public relations campaign foreseen under component 4. New staff with necessary
skills for the new challenges will have to be recruited and some training given.
In particular, this subcomponent will provide technical assistance to:
-  recruit management and staff of TELCOR (based on output of task le),
*  identify training needs and prepare training plan based on skills assessments,
* conduct training of managers and staff
Ig) Procure computer information systems for TELCOR
This will involve the purchase of a small number of computers, connected via a Local Area Network, to allow
TELCOR to expedite its licensing procedures, and computerize many of the current tasks that are managed by
hand.
Jh) Establish TELCOR 's Institutional Development Unit
This subcomponent will help create an Institutional Development Unit within TELCOR, to lead the process of
institutional strengthening of TELCOR. It will coordinate with ENITEL for substantive issues, and with
UCR1ESEP for administrative purposes.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   21
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Project Component 2: Radio spectrum management system: US$4.35 million (total cost of component)
2a) Consultancy to assess needs, develop tender and evaluate offers
Based on the information given by TELCOR, the consultant will review and finalize the design of the radio
spectrum management and monitoring system, including selection of sites for remote monitoring stations. Draft
bidding documents, including technical specifications will be developed, as well as an estimated budget and
timetable for the implementation of the project. The consultant will assist TELCOR in the evaluation of the
offers received.
2b, 2c) Procurement of new system and training in use of the system
The system will be procured under standard IDA procurement guidelines, and a specific training program will
be designed. Specific training in the use of the new system will be given for technical staff of TELCOR.
Project Component 3: Rural telecommunications development fund: US$1.44million (total cost of
component)
The rural development fund will be made up of contributions by all telecommunications service providers,
assessed as a percentage of their operating revenues (typically 1%). The fund will be used to subsidize
investments to deploy telecommunications infrastructure to those carriers willing to operate in rural areas, which
the Government considers will not be served without the subsidy. Subsidies will be awarded in a competitive
bidding process, where potential carriers bid for a subsidy from the fund. The winning carrier will be the one
that requires the lowest subsidy and will be granted a license or franchise, which can be exclusive or non-
exclusive, to provide service in the concession region. There is evidence from other countries that some rural
areas may not require a subsidy.
3a) Consultancy to develop a rural telecommunications strategy
Consultancy to explore different alternatives, based on international experience, to improve the development of
telecommunications services in rural and underserved areas. Internet services provided through telecenters will
also be a target of this study.
3b) Consultancy to analyze legal status of the fund
Consultancy to determine legal requirements for the creation of the rural telecommunications development fund
and draft required amendments to sector laws. Would naturally be conducted in connection with component 1 c).
3c) Consultancy to undertake demand studies
The consultant will assess the economic situation of the sector in the rural areas of the country, establish the
"zoning" of the country into rural concession regions, evaluate the objective level of service in each region with
a cost/benefit approach (according to the penetration goals established), and prioritize the projects, selecting the
most promising for a first round of competitive bidding. In addition, the consultant will analyze the possibility
of installing a small number oftelecenters in select locations as a pilot project to be expanded subsequently on a
commercial basis into a national network of telecenters and public Internet access points.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 22
Nicaragua                                            Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
3d) Consultancy to prepare fund guidelines and regulations, prepare and conduct bidding process for eventual
allocation offundproceeds
Technical assistance to develop the regulatory structure of the fund, its organization and procedures. The
consultant will design the bidding process and documents involved, including a Rural Fund Operational Manual,
takiing special attention to building environmental guidelines into the process. The consultant will also assist the
administrator of the fund in conducting the first round of competitive bidding to allocate the initial proceeds of
the iund (including IDA-funded subprojects as per component 3e), and licensing.
3e) Subprojects of the rural telecommunications development fund
The bulk of this component will be IDA's financed sub-projects to develop telecommunications services in the
rural! areas. Eligible Enterprises according to the Rural Fund Operational Manual will be selected according to
Intemnational Competitive Bidding as per section 3.13 (a) of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IDA
Credlits".
The goods, works and services required for carrying out said subprojects shall then be procured in accordance
with the applicable procedures of said Eligible Enterprises. TELCOR will allocate Fund resources to the
Eligible Enterprise that complies with the Bid Specification and bids the minimum subsidy for each one of the
sub-projects.
Project Component 4: On-going privatization of ENITEL: US$3.93 million (total cost of component)
4a) International legal consultancy
This subcomponent will provide the legal advisers for the privatization of ENITEL, who will draft all the
necessary legal documents for the transaction to take place, including the conduction of the due diligence
process.
4b) Investment bank fees and charges
This will cover the retainer fee and reimbursable expenses customary charged by investment bankers for this
kind of transactions.
4c) E!VITEL financial audit
For the privatization to proceed, ENITEL's financial statements need to be audited by an accredited
international accounting firm.
4d) Development and implementation of a public relations campaign
It is not expected that the privatization will cause much unrest, given the fact that the workers will have a chance
to own the company. However, it is important to design a public relations campaign that will explain to the
population in general the benefits the privatization will entail.
Project Component 5: Project management: US$1.47 million (total cost of component)
These are the funds allocated for project management activities. The PMU, initially UCRESEP as explained in
the text, will handle the Procurement, Administration and Accounting of the Project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  23
Nicaragua                                            Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
This component includes the Project Preparation activities that were carried out in UCRESEP and ENITEL's
Privatization Unit. The latter used these funds to recruit technical, financial and economic advisors for the
preparation of the privatization. This Unit will cease to exist when the transaction is completed.
As described in the text, once TELCOR develops its capacity to manage the Project, full responsibility of
Project management will be transferred from UCRESEP to TELCOR.
The project will fund local consultants for all three units mentioned above, to provide local legal, economic and
technical advice and carry out necessary financial and administrative procedures. This component will also fund
travel expenses and operating costs such as local transportation, expenses for office space, equipment and
supplies.
Project Component 6: Guarantee Y2K compliance of ENITEL's telecommunications networks: US$4.33
million (total cost of component)
The project will finance the upgrade of all non-Y2K-compliant software (and minor hardware updates) in
ENITEL's switches for the telephone network, as well as equipment in the X-25 data network, to bring them up
to date and compliant with the year 2000.



Projec t Appraisal Document                                                                 24
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Nicaragua: Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
(US$)
P.roject Component                                      Local       Foreign        Total
1) 1'ELCOR Institutional strengthening
Consultancies/Management                         220,556      1,300,000    1,520,556
Training                                          101,795      600,000      701,795
Computer information systems                       16,966      100,000      116,966
Sub-Total                                        339,316     2,000,000    2,339,316
2) Spectrum management system
Consultancies                                      4,082        35,000       39,082
Training                                           15,746      135,000      150,746
Spectrum management & monitoring equipment       408,240     3,500,000     3,908,240
Sub-Total                                        428,069     3,670,000     4,098,069
3) Rural development fund & telecenters
Consultancies                                     26,191       190,000      216,191
Investment Subprojects                            137,847     1,000,000    1,137,847
Sub-Total                                        164,038     1,190,000     1,354,038
4) Additional TA for ENITEL privatization
Consuitancies                                    437,400     2,750,000     3,187,400
Information Campaign                              71,575       450,000      521,575
Sub-Total                                        508,975     3,200,000     3,708,975
5) Project Management
Consultants/Management                            73,483       630,000      703,483
Project audit                                      17,496      150,000      167,496
Miscellaneous (office eq./fiurniture/car/rent)    53,654       460,000      513,654
Sub-Total                                        144,634     1,240,000    1,384,634
6) Y2K software upgrades
Sub-Tocal                                       430,968      3,694,854    4,125,822
BASE PROJECT COST (w/out contingencies)             2,016,000    14,994,854    17,010,854
Contingencies                                         119,328      905,146      1,024,474
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                  2,135,328    15,900,000    18,035,328
Note:
Price contingencies 6% (applied to all)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    25
Nicaragua                                              Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Annex 4
Telecommunications Sector Reform
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Present Value of Flows             Fiscal Impact
Economic       Financial
Analysis       Analysis       Taxes           Subsidies
Project Costs          Greater than
US$ 18.0 mln           financial IRR,  NPV=$3.6mln   US$ 24.9 mln  Budget
due to positive  IRR-23%       (Net Present   subsidies to
externalities                  Value of all    ENITEL would
tax flows,     be eliminated
1999)
Main Assumptions:
* Projecting revenue generated by the increased number of lines and improved revenues per line
* Annual revenues with reform program increase 15% in yrs. 1-5; 12% in yrs. 6-10; 8% in yrs. 11-40; without
reform program revenue only increases by 12%, 9%, and 6% respectively.
- A baseline growth of GDP of 5%
- Continuity of the present exchange rate throughout the period.
- A 40-year implementation period.
* Net Present Values based on 20% discount rate.
Notes
NPV: Net Present Value, discounted cash flow at 20%
IRR: Internal Rate of Return
Taxes: Includes sales tax, corporate profits tax, and import duties on equipment



Project Appraisal Document                                                                26
Nicaragua                                           Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Annex 5
Table SA - Financial Summary
Nicaragua: Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
(US$)
Implementation Period
|  FY00  |IFY01      FY02       FY03      FY04      TOTAL
Prcject Costs
Investment Costs    7,851,097   2,330,680  3,856,543  1,441,565   420,116   15,900,000
Recurrent Costs     1,051,207    350,859    481,251    192,444    60,950    2,136,711
Total             8,902,304   2,681,539  4,337,794  1,634,009   481,066   18,036,712
Financing Sources (%)
IBRD                 7,851,097   2,330,680  3,856,543  1,441,565   420,116   15,900,000
Government           1,051,207    350,859    481,251    192,444    60,950    2,136,711
Total             8,902,304   2,681,539  4,337,794  1,634,009   481,066   18,036,712
Main Assumptions:
- Price contingencies: 6%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    27
Nicaragua                                              Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Annex 5
Table 5B - Financial Summary by Category
Nicaragua: Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
(U S$)
Implementation Period                l
FY00       FY01       FY02       FY03       FY04       TOTAL
Expenditure Category           (USS)  ..
I Goods                       4,084,854    480,000  2,800,000    370,000     10,000    7,744,854
2. Consultants' Services       969,100   1,266,000    367,499    343,500    108,900    3,055,000
3. Training                     180,000    360,000    127,500    54,000      13,500     735,000
4. Rural Telecoms Subprojects        0           0   250,000    500,000    250,000    1,000,000
5. Operating costs of PIU       170,200     92,000     92,000    92,000      13,800     460,000
6. Refunding of the PPF       2,000,000          0         0                      0    2,000,000
7. Unallocated                 446,943    132,679    219,544     82,064      23,916     905,146
TOTAL                       7,85 1,097  2,330,680  3,856,543  1,441,565    420,116   15,900,000
M ain A ssum ptions:
- Price contingencies: 6%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 28
Nicaragua                                            Telecommunications Sector Refonn Project
Annex 6
Telecommunications Sector Reform
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
A capacity assessment was conducted at ENITEL and TELCOR as agencies responsible for procurement and at
UCRIESEP as the management unit responsible for administrative management of contracts and project
accounting. These agencies were assessed in the high risk category, and as such, the project requires close
supervision and compliance with a proposed action plan. This action plan includes improvements in areas, such
as: procurement management; organization and functions; support and control systems; and record keeping.
The Action Plan's main points are: (1) Preparation of a Procurement Plan, for both goods and consulting
services, including programming the main Project contracts and tenders for the 4 years of execution, grouped
accCding to Annex 2 of this document. The Plan will be completed by Credit Negotiations. (2) Training of
Key Staff before Project implementation, in Procurement matters such as the initial plan for procurement for
goods and for consultants, review of data sheets for selection of consultants and goods, review of potential
problems, evaluation methodology, the content of contracts and special conditions of the contracts. Training
will happen in the period after Credit Negotiations and before Credit effectiveness. (3) Preparation of a Project
Operations Manual including the organization of the Project, the responsibilities of each one of the units
involved in the Project, the key staff in each unit and their terms of reference, the initial procurement plan
mentioned above, the budget and expense program, the training program for staff, and Project Procurement
Audit. The Manual will be completed by the end of February, 2,000.
The Project Procurement activities will be supervised every 6 months, reviewing the processes during the period
and the expected plan for the next 6 months, in relation to the Action Plan described above.
The procurement methods are summarized in Table 6A. 1. Procurement of goods and BOO contracts will follow
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 (revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Procurement of consultant services will follow the
"Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", dated January 1997
and revised September 1997 and January 1999. Standard bidding documents (SBD) will be used for all IDA-
financed procurement.
Gooas
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for contracts of US$150,000.00 equivalent or more under
the radio spectrum management component which includes a supply and installation contract for radio spectrum
frequency monitoring equipment. Goods contracts for office and other equipment and computer-related
purchases costing between US$25,000 and US$150,000 will be procured under National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) up to an aggregate of $550,000. For goods under part A of the Project below $40,000 and for contracts
below US$25,000, national/international shopping will be used up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000. Four
contracts to upgrade telephone exchanges and data transmission networks for Y2K compliance will be procured
by direct contracting from the original equipment manufacturers up to an aggregate amount of about US$3.7
million.
BOO Contracts
ICB will be used for BOO contracts financed under the Rural Telecommunication Development Fund. Under
this ftnd, private operators willing to operate in rural areas will compete for contracts based on a selection



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  29
Nicaragua                                            Telecommunications Sector Reforn Project
criteria on qualifications and minimum subsidies. These contracts will conform with Section 3.13 (a) of the
Guidelines for Procurement. The private operators selected in this manner shall be free to procure the works,
goods, and services required for the facility from eligible sources, using their own procedures.
Consultant and Training Services
Consultant and training services will be procured under contracts awarded under QCBS and other selection
methods as indicated in Table 6A.2. Consulting assignments for which a firm is to be hired and which have a
value equal to or greater than US$100,000, shall be procured according to Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS). Project audits shall be selected by least-cost selection (LC) due to the standard nature of the
assignment. Individual Consultants (IC) shall be selected in accordance with section 5 of the Guidelines, up to
an aggregate amount of about US$1.5 million. For the privatization component, teams of legal and financial
advisors selected by QCBS under credit 2690-NI will be rehired by Single-Source Selection for reasons of
economy and continuity. Both teams perforned satisfactorily during the first attempt of privatization and are
familiar with the process.
Review Procedures
Requirements for prior review are summarized in table 6B. All contracts for goods procured under ICB shall be
subject to IDA's prior review.  The first three (3) contracts procured under NCB, as well as
national/international shopping will be subject to IDA's prior review. Consulting contracts with firms estimated
to cost US$100,000 or more, will be subject to prior review of all steps in the process. Contracts for
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 or more will also requirelDA's prior review
of all steps in the process. Short list and terms of reference for all consultant contracts as well as individuals,
irrespective of dollar amount, are subject to prior review.
Disbursement
Disbursement will take place over the four-year period of the project, with an anticipated project closing date of
June 30, 2004. The disbursement schedule is presented below. (The allocation of loan proceeds is provided in
Table 6C). Disbursements for the first year reflect the refunding of the Project Preparation Advance of US$2
million. There will be retroactive financing up to 10% of the credit amount to finance the most urgent measures
of the Y2K component.
FY00           FY01          FY02           FY03          FY04
Annual      7.85           2.33          3.86           1.44          0.42
Cumulative     7.85           10.18         14.04          15.48         15.90
An Action Plan for the establishment of a financial management system was agreed to between IDA and
UCRESEP, dated September 3, 1,999. According to this plan, a project accountant and an accounting firm as
project auditor is being selected. Further, a Financial Management Assessment was carried out in UCRESEP,
and found the entity ready for Project Implementation.
The main elements of the Action Plan are as follows. (1) ENITEL, TELCOR and UCRESEP agreed on the
physical and financial indicators for project monitoring, before Credit Negotiations. (2)UCRESEP is hiring the
Audit Firm. (3) UCRESEP/TELCOR is purchasing a computer software for the preparation of Project
Management Reports ("PMRs") under LACI, compatible with the existing accounting system. (4)
UCRESEP/TELCOR will prepare a Project Manual, including the budget and financial planning of
expenditures, the timetable of events and the processes needed for generation of the PMRs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                30
Nicaragua                                           Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
The Action Plan also seeks to incorporate the use of procedures under IDA's Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI), but would allow for the initial use of traditional disbursement procedures (which include
direct payments, special commitments, Statements of Expenditure (SOE)) until the new LACI procedures are
fully in place. In either instance, a Special Account shall be established and maintained in US dollars in the
cen'ral bank, or a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
Using the traditional disbursement procedures, US$900,000 (about four months of eligible expenditures) would
be the authorized allocation for the Special Account. The use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) would be
allowed for the following types of expenditure:
*   contracts for goods costing less than US$150,000;
*   contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than US$ 100,000;
*  contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than US$50,000;
* training; and
* operating costs.
Once a full conversion to the LACI procedures has taken place, the PMU would produce and submit to IDA a
Project Management Report (PMR) on a quarterly basis, which allows for the simultaneous monitoring of
financial, physical, and procurement activity of the project, while also serving as an application for disbursement
from the loan account to the Special Account. The amount will be based on the expected eligible expenditures
for the subsequent six-month period. Using LACI procedures, the total amount in the Special Account would
not exceed US$3.18 million.
In addition to submission of quarterly PMRs or the use of traditional disbursement procedures, the project will
be required to submit an annual audit report to IDA, the format of which was discussed with the borrower. The
audit should be performed by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and the report should be received by
IDA no later than six months after the close of the project!s financial year (December).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 31
Nicaragua                                            Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Table 6A. 1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$)
Procurement Method                     Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                 Nat'l/Int'l
(As per table 6C)               ICB        NCB       Shopping     Other        NIF
1. Goods                          3,500,000    350,000    200,000    3,694,854    888,569   8,633,424
(3,500,000)  (350,000)   (200,000)  (3,694,854)      (0)  (7,744,854)
2. Consultants' Services                                            3,055,000     779,208   3,834,208
(3,055,000)        (0)  (3,055,000)
3. Training                                                           735,000      117,541    852,541
(735,000)        (0)   (735,000)
4. Rural Telecommunications       1,000,000                                        137,847    1,137,847
Subprojects                   (1,000,000)                                           (0)  (1,000,000)
5. Operating Costs of PIU                                             460,000      53,654     513,654
(460,000)        (0)   (460,000)
6. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                         2,000,000                2,000,000
(2,000,000)             (2,000,000)
7. Unallocated                                                        905,146      119,328    1,024,474
(905,146)         (0)   (905,146)
Total                           4,500,000    350,000    200,000   10,850,000    2,096,149   17,996,150
(Total IDA Financed)          (4,500,000)  (350,000)   (200,000) (10,850,000)       (0) (15,900,000)
Note:
Figures in brackets are financed by the IDA credit
ICB:    International Competitive Bidding
NCB:   National Competitive Bidding
NIF:    Not IDA-financed
Nat'l/lnt'l shopping: National and international shopping
Other:  Includes direct contracting (for Y2K component) and selection of consultants under IBRD/IDA guidelines;
Includes refunding of the PPF, which was used to finance consultants services
It also includes unallocated category, for which no procurement method has yet been foreseen



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  32
Nicaragua                                             Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Table 6A.2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$)
Consultant Services                Selection Method                               Total Cost
(incl. Training)     QCBS          CQ          SS          LC          NIF
Firms              1,360,000               2,750,000   150,000      670,574       4,930,574
(1,360,000)            (2,750,000)    (150,000)         (0)   (4,260,000)
Individuals                     1,530,000                           226,176       1,756,176
(1,530,000)                                (0)   (1,530,000)
Total               1,360,000    1,530,000  2,750,000     150,000     896,750     6,686,750
(5,790,000)
Note:
Figures in parentheses are financed by the IDA credit
QBCS:   Quality and cost-based selection
CQ:      Consultant's Qualifications (for TELCOR and ENITEL's execution units)
SS:      Single-source selection (for privatization component)
LC:      Least-cost selection
NIF:     Not IDA-financed



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  33
Nicaragua                                            Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Table 6B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure              Contract Value       Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category                 (Threshold)           Method                 Prior Review
1. Goods                     > $150,000              ICB                   Prior Review
< $150,000              NCB                  Prior Review first 3 contracts
< $25,000               Nat'l/int'l shopping  Prior Review first 3 contracts
All                  Direct Contracting    Prior Review
(for Y2K)
2. Consultants' Services     > $100,000              QCBS                  Prior Review
and Training               for firms *
< $50,000               CQ                   Prior Review
for individuals*
< $100,000              LC (for audit firm)  Prior Review
forfirms*
All                  SS (for privatization    Prior Review
for firms *           advisers)
*Short list and TORs for all consultant contracts as well as all individuals, irrespective
of dollar amount are subject to prior review.
Note:
ICB:   Intemational Competitive Bidding
NCB:  National Competitive Bidding
Nat'l/Int'l shopping: National and intemational shopping
QCBS: Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
CQ:   Consultants' Qualifications
IC:    Individual Consultants
SS:    Single-Source Selection
LC:   Least-Cost Selection



F'roject Appraisal Document                                                                34
Nicaragua                                            Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Table 6C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds a/
Amount
Expenditure Category                                (US$)    Financing Percentage
1.    Goods                                             7,744,854     100% of foreign expenditure,
80% of other local expenditures
2.    Consultants' Services                             3,055,000                100%
3.    Training                                            735,000                100%
4.    Rural Telecommunications Subprojects              1,000,000      100% of the amount specified
in each Subproject Agreement
5.    Operating costs of PIU                              460,000                90%
6.    Refunding of the Project Preparation Advance      2,000,000     Amounts due pursuant to Section
2.02. (b) of the Credit Agreement
7.    Unallocated                                         905,146
TOTAL                                            15,900,000
a/ The description of the expenditure category as defined in the Credit Agreement



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  35
Nicaragua                                            Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Annex 7
Telecommunications Sector Reform
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$72,600            US$70,700
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  8 months
First IDA mission (identification)                                  01/13/1999
Appraisal mission departure                    12/07/1998           08/23/1999
Negotiations                                   10/01/1999           10/20/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  03/15/2000             /_/19
Prepared by: ENITEL and TELCOR
Preparation assistance: Project Preparation Facility
World Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Eloy E. Vidal                            Task Manager
Juergen Franz                             Sector Leader
Juan Navas-Sabater                        Telecoms Specialist
Kashmira Daruwalla                       Procurement Analyst
Marta Molares-Halberg                        Senior Counsel
Michael Fowler                         Disbursement Officer
Jaime Roman                       Principal Procurement Specialist
Adan Cajina                          Procurement Consultant
Luz Zer6n                            Financial-Consultant
Susan Hume                             Operations Officer
Marta Priftis                          Program Assistant



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      36
Nicaragua                                               Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Annex 8
Telecommunications Sector Reform
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. World Bank Staff Assessments
Economic and Financial Analyses of the Project
C. Other
Ley de Incorporaci6n de Particulares en la Operaci6n y Ampliaci6n de los Servicios Piblicos de
Telecomunicaciones, Ley 210, December 1995
Ley de Reforma de la Ley 210 de Telecomunicaciones, March 1998
Analysis of the Current Legal and Regulatory Framework of the Telecommunications Sector
ENITEL Information Memorandum
Draft Concession Contract - ENITEL
Design of the Frequency Spectrum Monitoring and Management System for TELCOR



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                       37
Nicaragua                                                                                     Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Nicaragua
Operations Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-99
31. f Ee root. Rerve..,,
expected
Orlinql-  ;ncunt in US$ F:illic-s                  a-.d actua>l
i'scal                                                                                                                                disbseoot7  a
Proje=t ID    Ycar                Borrouc:                     Purpose
I3RD'       IDA      Cancellatio,s  l:disrursed        Oriq    Fro Acr'd
ilumber of Closnd ?rc5ccts: 39
Active ?ro3ects
NrI-PE-0613  2C0C   HINISSRY OF EDUCAJ1ON                 ECUCATION 1I                             C.    Q     2.50        0.00             54.21    Q     0.0    O .00
Ili-PE-40197     1399   GOVERNMENT OF N:CARAGUA           rISE 1I0                                 0.00       45.00        0.00              36.61       -5.23        0.Q0
NT-PE-52080    1999   MAGFOR                              FOREST9Y                                 0.00        9.00        o.00               o.41         .7C        o.00
il-PF-35753    199    REPUSL7C OF NiCARAGUA             RHALrN SECT  _                            Q. 00      24.00        0.00             22.5"         3.^9        0.03
NT-PE-531705    1399   REPP17RI,l  OF NICARAGUA          SRANSPORT 11                              0.00       47.40        0.00             27.6'        -S.47        0.09
Sr-P5-7777       1498   REPUBL7C OF NrCARAGUA             FINAN SEC. ADJSS44EN                     0.00       71.40        0.00               R.6.9      15.29          '0
R!-PE-719C       1997   REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA            R'JRAL iW1NICIPALITIES                    O.00       30.00        0.00              7.-9        -5.00        0. 0
9!-P-37S9        19936   COVERN4MEN7 OF NICARAGUA         ROADS REHAB & '0INT                      0.^0       25.00        C.00              1.P0         5.6'        0.50
Z-ipE-35080      1995   GOVT. O- NICARAGUA                INSTITUTIONAL DEV CR                     0.00       22.00         .o00              3.57         .3;        0.03
N:-E-E7'2        1995   KINISTRY OF EDXCATION             EDUCATION                                0.C3       47.20        0.00              13.52        3.I9        7.41
Ni-PE-7 10 1994   GOCvT OF NICAF.RGUA                     TECR & t9N  0T                           0.'0       44.00        0.00               3.3?       5, 44.       n.G0
Total                                                                                              0.03      418.0         0.. 00                                     -... 19.7I I.71
Active Projecro       Cl..ed Proelcts           Total
Total Disbursed l;SRD ar-d 1DAI:                 206.44              623.34              829.7a
.,f wh:ch ha" been repaid. -                D.C0              23s.35              234.95
Totl now held by0 I0RD  nd IDA:                 418.50              383.56              902.09
AInount sol.                                       D 0.00              5.52                5.62
C): which repaid                               0.00                5.S2                 5.62
Tot.1 U,.disb-r.ed               :              2309.9                 0.52         _     03.33
a. Intendld disorsamnents :D date min"us actul disours2macns to cate as projected at apprainal as of 30-Jur-99.
Not o:
Disbursement date is -p1etad al _sh  eod P.' she l-rut oeek of the month 3.d is currenti; as ot 30-Sep-95.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           38
Nicaragua                                                  Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Nicaragua
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jul-99
In Millions US Dollars
----------Held--------     --------Disbursed-----
-----------IFC               ------IFC--------
FY Approval            Company               Loan Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan Equity  Quasi Partic
1998                   Frutan                2.00   1.00   0.00   0.00   .50   .43   0.00   0.00
1998                   La Colonia            4.00   0.00   .50   0.00   2.00   0.00   .50   0.00
1999                   SEF Dicegsa           1.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:                              7,00   1.00   .50   0.00   3.50   .43   .50   0.00
Approvals Pending
Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
2000                   FINARCA               2.00   .60   0.00   0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                    2.00   .60   0.00   0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                       39
Nicaragua                                                                  Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
Annex 10
Nicaragua at a glance                                                               9122/99
Laffn
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America      Low- 
Nicaragua   & CtIb.   ineome      Development dlamond
Population ,mid-year (ViorS)                          4.8       502     3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita fAtias method, US$S                    410     3,940       520
GNP (AtIa method, US$blihns)                          2.0     1,978     1,844
Average annual growth, 1982-98
Population I%)                                        2.8       1.8       1.7
Labor forae I%)                                       4.1       2.3       f,9     GNP                              Gross
Moat recent eattm~~~~~~~~~ ~~  ~~   ~~    ~~                  per                            primary
Most reont esffmate (latest year strall , 1992-ffi)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulaton beow natonalpove*Int ).         so
Urban population (16 oftotalpopuion)                   64        75        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       68        70        63
inhfnt mortality (per 1,000Jlve bfrths)                43        32        69
Child mainutritidn (% ofchildrenunder 5)               12         a         ..              Access to safe water
Access to sate water (% ofpopulaton)                   62        75        74
Iliteracy (% of populstln age 154)                     37        13        32
Gross primary enroliment (%of school,age populabtn)   103       113       108            -    Nicaragua
Male                                                101        ,.       113                 Low-income group
femaie                                              104                 103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TIERM TRENDS
1977    1987.      1997     1S98
Economic ratIos'
GDP (US$ billons)                            2.2      2.9       2.0       2.1
Gross domestic investrnenIGDP               25.6    15.8       32.2      34.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP           32.1     11.8      42.8      37.7                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP.-                20.3     13.8      -4.5      -5.3
Gross national savkgs/GDP                   13.9    13.3       -8.0      -S.'
Current account balancelGDP                  -8.6   -27.5     -30.3    -32.9             .        /\
Interest payments/GDP                        2.3      0.4       7.6       7.2     Domesic              '        Investment
Total debtWGDP                              57.1   271.2      291.0    283.9      Savings
Total debt service/exports                  14.6     14.4      31.5      32.2
Present value of debt/GDP                      -.      ..    224.2
Present value of debttexpotts                 ..       ..    410.5
Indebtedness
197747  198.98    1997       19s8  199-03
(average annual growth)
GOP         .                       -2.0     2.0      S.1       4.0       6.4                   Nicaragua
GNP per capita                     -5,7      0.6      6.6       3.3       3.6                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       -8.3    11.0      4.0       4.4       7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(fX oftGDP)
Agriculture                                 22.9    28.9       33.9      34.0    40
Industry                                    26.0    23.1       21.6      21.5    20
Manufacturing                              19.2    18.7       15.5      15.1
Services                                    51.1     48.0      44.5      44.4  
Private consumption                         70.8    52.0       89.9      91.1    420
General govemment consumpton                 8.9    34.2       14.6      14.2GDI                            0  GDP
Imports of goods and services               37.4     13.8      79.5      77.5
(average annual growth)                  197747  1988-98       1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (/)
Agriculture                                 -3.2      4.3       8.3       4.2    45
Industry                                    -1.4      2.2       5.7       4.6
Manufacturing                              -0.4      0.9       3.8       2.1
Services                                     -1.7     0.5       2.6       3.6    1s
Private consumption                         -7.8      2.1       8.8       9.6      o
General govemment consumption               17.5    -5.5       -0.7      -0.4                  a 3   s   ss   97
Gross domestic investment                    0.8      6.9      22.2      20.0    4s
Imports of goods and services                -0.5     6.2      14.1       7.9                   Exports    0  Imports
Gross national product                       -2.8     3.4       9.6       6.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (In bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.






MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 30587
82NICARAGUA                                86858480                                                                                                                                                                       RAAN                                 CHINANDEGA                         MASAYA
is'  1 Wopono~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  5.P~,     N.                          1)21 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR2 PWUE~RT CABEZAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 54 Conn o,,2 N 
3 Do--z                             ST S.- lTrnTooo,od H1.o            104  AASAOA
4 o0io                               56 S., Fn--oMiN-d                105 L.oC...pon
REFORM  PROJECT                                                                                      .c\.~Si---n                                                                                                                                                   51 Soo6o                          O
SW---]                               5858Vil 0                         078 don
SELECTED CITIES                                                      '~~7 Po-npol1,                                                                                                                                      SR T-Ionl                         100 No5,.-no
PROJECT                                                    25                                                                                                                                                                                                                               60osR ASN  El Vioj                10   ooon
MJNICIPAI CAPITALS (,.r., on b-Rb Ion                                                                                                                                                  RAAS     o                         1U88ADG                          110  0-20L00 Qo, solo
INTERNA  094  EAR   S A ON                   ~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT CAPIDAIS                                                                                                                                                 8L.qO      81 Cn- do, Rio Go-noo                62 Chimlgopop
9BR,-oco   P. oo,                     3 Por lg,                            CA NAZO
*  TILEPIIONE ER HAN  ES-                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                108101  M_sflodolRopo                                    44.  IR.o..                        11S,  o
11 El Ro..                            65 Coooo                          1  Dn-oo
MUINICIPAL ROUNDARIES                      -                                               ~12  o LL,,u                                                                                                        o~N                                         1124Joo
-                                                                                              12   goooPsoono                          LEON                          114 JINOTEPR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E N  !OTP
noOonlononbon  loon, 0cc                        O~~~~~~~~~~~~EPARTMENT ROUNDARIED    /                                                                                                       'nN    G-WERRD                                                               60 Ao 000                           n E...onn
- -  INTERNATIONOABOUNDAROES           .s                                                                                                                                                16E ET.ILL,o                          68 Solo Ron, nl PoT, ,             17Son_ T..,.o
0,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~                ATLANTiCO                                                                                  J7lnonococndoR.cOcoodo               6  ERlcoI JbLnCoq.noo
27                                             0                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~       ~~NORTE  Puerto  14'  18Ro..o Co,  70 Mo1poisl6
f 27                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cobezos                       IT 9Co.. Islad                         771 ToSno~ --                         GRANADA
/                                                                                                        JINOTEGA                           72 OnonoWoqon ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~211218 GRANADA
JINOTEGA                ~~~73 LEON                         12 Enno
-      000% -              5 3              OINOTEGA20W
0CA                   j*~~ ~~~~~~~~28  -30                                                           021 Ion Prol -37   oon                                                                                                                                                                                   2  N-dio
OJCQTAL                                                                                  G                                                                                                                                                       7     g-122-i
131%.2   -3*34                     D20                                                                                                                                                               2E3 Do-oonnd o                           MA4TAGALPA                         RIVAS
\38  -`L              37                                                                                                                                                                         24 Don Robo1 dsl Nool                 76 R-nAo OGr-d                     I204
50040 OTGf A DRI  *42  '43                                                                                                                                                                                       25oL.Conoonoo                         77 L.oDo                           04 OnIo,
I   28     '40                                                                                                                                                                                            28 JINOTIGA                           78 Son Ltdno                      125 Fo-s,
44 "                                             2                                                                                                                                                                                               79 AiATAGALP                      126 Esco  Ano
AS  P                       2I                                                                                                                                                                        N   UE VA  SEGO  VIA              80 Son Romoo                      127 S.n J.go
I                  2~~~~~~~~~3 *627 Jooo8  Roo R1onn-                                                                                                                                                                                                                        128 DIVAS
4 0425     5' MA  38                               24                       ~~~~~                                       ~     ~~~~~~.76  '   ,o          0.o                                                                      8SnMno82uoo12 AMoyoopo
48,prn.n                  *29 ~ Ro,loo83 Ciodod Donio                                                                                                                                                                                                                             130Aoio
0110002     n35                0n200&O          25                                                                                                                                                                                21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`.7  L DOp I   52 So-nn..n                       131 Son,lnood.dLon
*                                             Estali        Thisoinogon 660  IE,Iha'                                                                                                                                 '                I1OCOTAL                               85 Son So--n                      132 CoLoon-
.86  0061  00)261   -  -                                                                  nO.                                                       32 Mononno                            06 Esqopoon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3   -,  5  E,,P
3'5                                                                         2 1                                                                                                                                                                    130        53 So  onno8    oMyCHONTALES
$ooooIonnpoo.n  4-0 on  8~U7                  83.IN2       M           fO7nL'n                                                                                                                                               35 Coodod Sn,dino                                                       154 JUIGALPA
5,nLJooOnonAk6oA9035                                                                                 o  '                                                                                                                          3  Monno                                   BOA CO                        135 1 Loonond
59                          .86                                   -    0                9                                                                                                                               37 o~~~~~,oo                          0 9 Son Joolo  oRonon-            136 So-ooon  go
Chm-d.g.            -69                 .~~~~~84        '87                                                                                                                                                                                            90 Sonn Loo                       137 So Pnd,, dolooog
C0iloionL8                   *       85'86                                                   %                                                                                                                                       MADRIZ                            91 0OACO                          138 Doo,M Tnrooo
62~~~~~Jjl  FF20105                  0. j         n                                                                                                                        38 Tono3opn                           82 Tnoopo                         138 VilE Sondono~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18I  9  T.p  19vi6 ..i
626'              70            ~                           .89                                                                                                                                                            36SMOO2  Soo  cono--Acpp
-    72  79 5                                                 .90    BOA CO                                                                                                                                               40 T.1o,,A-0                          TO Co-o-op
j65                                                                      Bc                                                                                                                                                       1P..-                                                                       RIO SAN JUAN
01880            , ~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~l9~. ll                               .         -42 TspnooMANAGUA                                                                                                                                                                              A4  Mo.""n
01731   74  0'' '    80ke 9                                                                                                                                                                                        4 T A TC     3 S-JIondo R,.C-o         RE Son, F--nonnUCro              142 Fl Anon-do
ID  '~_   ~Mqraqr    .                                                                                   ATAN8C  3-                                         --',                                           44 Son Lo-o                           96 Son Rof-sldd1Son,              141 S-nMg,ol
7          00                          *I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13  0-136                          SoftR                      12. 1                                                            45 Wo.Sobo-o                          97 Mo-oc                          14N4
750    j&-RTM     A'A135.                                                                                                                                                                             65Snonoonn9                             0    Co'RooA4                            nSLnoAco
(0    'AN           V              112R1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(q -46A00-14JOON,AE#                                                                                                                                                07-PoMo9NoooV11.Cr-F -AS   -                                                        S
For4  711,088        0~~~~~~10151                                                                        0,0                                   S1T -
06    BItl6 r                                                                                                          . 71.f9 oilonddso
87'nso                                                                                                        43I''o  -_                                                                                                                                                                                 0D II8I
be ow   96                           n         46 54.10                                           o'                                                                                                                                        0        i'fT                                                 oA
o5 1  grAMEXICO   80828
2,0,0     OoOo 01000700                 00'             '   133,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9IN1
0-  '                       -                  ~~~~'43                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OSATRMA0AK-  HONDURAS    On                 OCEAN~~~~~~~~l  "k
5000 7.o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                                                                                                                                                             2L T,6
00     ,, -  ep00   (I         ' 14ko)tco                                       ,        RI       A                                                                                                                                                                                        I!N 8
0.  Ono 000  0000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NICIARAQUAEU
0000~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iT GA M,6~-(~  CCEA
0  0                o,                                                                            0                      148.                     ~~~~                                                                                 PACIFICA    IDUA           >            AIAR          I
~~ANAOUA   ~~~~~COSTA                                                                        RICAVoopnpood60oosbnnnSNc.                                                                                                                                           CA'                                           >
0000  86'  0'      550                                             84'                     '                       820                                                                          '80             oR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  CQCOMBIA~~~CLOBI
OCTOIERO 9



