                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                        Report No:ICR0000223




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IDA-32910 IDA-3291A)




                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.6 MILLION
                         (US$ 15.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                         FOR A

             TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM PROJECT




                                    January 29, 2007




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Unit
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        ( Exchange Rate Effective 12/08/2006 )
                              Currency Unit = Cordobas Oro
                        Cordobas Oro 1.00 = US$ 0.056
                                  US$ 1.00 = Cordobas Oro 17.75


                                     Fiscal Year
                               January 1 - December 31




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

$      US Dollar unless otherwise indicated
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
ENITEL Empresa Nicaraguense de Telecomunicaciones
FITEL  Telecommunications Investment Fund
GON    Government of Nicaragua
ICT    Information and Communications Technologies
IDA    International Development Association
ILD    International Long Distance
IMF    International Monetary Fund
ITU    International Telecommunications Union
KPI    Key Performance Indicators
NLD    National Long Distance
OBA    Output-Based Aid
PDO    Project Development Objectives
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
PMU    Project Management Unit
TELCOR Instituto Nicaraguense de Telecomunicaciones y Correos
       Unidad de Coordinacion del Programa de Reforma y Modernizacion del Sector
UCRESEP
       Publico
WTO    World Trade Organization




                           Vice President: Pamela Cox

                         Country Director: Jane Armitage

                          Sector Manager: Philippe Dongier

                      Project Team Leader: Eloy Eduardo Vidal

                                                     Nicaragua
                           Nicaragua - Telecommunication Reform




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 19
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 20
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 21
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 24
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 27
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 29
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 35
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 37
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 38
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 39
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 40
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 43
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 44
MAP...............................................................................

1. Basic Information
                                                                      Nicaragua -
Country:                Nicaragua             Project Name:           Telecommunication
                                                                      Reform

Project ID:             P055853               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-32910,IDA-
                                                                      3291A
ICR Date:               01/29/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:               REPUBLIC OF
                                                                      NICARAGUA
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 11.6M             Disbursed Amount:       XDR 11.5M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

TELCOR
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 09/16/1998           Effectiveness:     04/25/2000        04/25/2000
Appraisal:         08/23/1999        Restructuring(s):                    07/18/2003
Approval:          11/18/1999        Mid-term Review:                     10/30/2002
                                     Closing:           06/30/2004        06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         Satisfactory

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    46               46
Telecommunications                                                   54               54
                                                       Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Law reform                                              Secondary        Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                       Primary          Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization   Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                           At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                        Pamela Cox       David de Ferranti

Country Director:                                      Jane Armitage    D-M Dowsett-
                                                                        Coirolo

Sector Manager:                                        Philippe Dongier Emmanuel
                                                                        Forestier

Project Team Leader:                                   Eloy Eduardo     Eloy Eduardo
                                                       Vidal            Vidal

ICR Team Leader:                                       Eloy Eduardo
                                                       Vidal

ICR Primary Author:                                    Arturo Muente
                                                       Kunigami




                                                 2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


Sector background

The telecommunications sector in Nicaragua, before the implementation of the project, mainly
consisted of a fixed-line monopoly (ENITEL) and only one mobile operator (BellSouth) with a
license limited to Managua, the Center and Pacific regions (wealthiest regions in the country).

Penetration of fixed and mobile was among the lowest in Latin America (3 lines per 100
inhabitants compared to, for instance, 15 in neighboring Costa Rica). Access to
telecommunications services was particularly scarce in rural areas, where teledensity was below
1 percent. Only 52% of municipalities had access to a telephone (most of them in urban areas).

Cross-subsidies between local and long distance services were in place and ENITEL was clearly
an inefficient company. Two previous attempts to privatize the company had failed because of the
lack of information (both financial and technical). On top of this, the company lacked the financial
resources to make required investments in the sector. The main challenges facing the company
were its excess of staff, low level of local tariffs, and, as mentioned, overall difficult financial
situation, in particular a high level of short term debt. In essence, the company was unprofitable
and the government wanted to privatize it in order to boost the sector with private investments it
could not afford.

The regulatory entity, TELCOR, was created in 1982. At first, it was both regulator and operator.
As a result of the first attempt of privatization, it remained only a regulator (Law 200, enacted in
1995). However, its personnel were poorly trained and the institution lacked the necessary
equipment to carry out their functions, particularly in the area of frequency spectrum management
and monitoring. Additionally, as mentioned above, prices were distorted.

Rationale for Bank assistance

IDA's strategy for the telecommunications sector calls for shifting the government's role from
ownership and operations to policy making and regulation, promoting efficiency and service
quality, and increased private sector participation in investments and provision of services.

Along these lines, the GON initiated a reform program designed to attract private investment to
the sector. However, the lack of experience of the government resulted in the failure of two
attempts to privatize the company. The GON valued IDA for its worldwide experience in
telecommunications, privatization and modernization of regulatory frameworks, as well as for its
overall coordination of such programs. IDA's presence also increased international credibility to
the privatization process.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project will help strengthen the policy and regulatory environment in the
telecommunications sector and improve rural access to services by encouraging private
investment in those areas. In particular, the Project will support the development of a
modern regulatory framework including the drafting and implementation of legal,
economic, and technical regulations related to tariff rebalancing, interconnection
agreements, and technical plans. In addition, support will be provided to strengthen and
improve the autonomy of the regulatory agency with responsibility for sector regulation,


                                                      3

planning, and policy. The Project will support the design and operations of a rural
telecommunications development fund (FITEL) to provide incentives for private
operators to provide telecommunications services in rural areas. Technical and financial
support will also be provided to the new regulator for the establishment and maintenance
of a radio spectrum management system. The Project will fund Technical Assistance for
the privatization of Empresa Nicaragüense de Telecommunicaciones (ENITEL), and also
measures to correct the computer programs of the telephone and data networks to
overcome the year 2000 problem.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The original objectives were not revised


6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The project was aimed at all telecommunications users in Nicaragua (residential, business and
government). It would benefit them by increasing availability of telephone lines and improving
service. The introduction of competition in the sector and the stronger role of the regulating
agency would serve to control cost of services and also have a favorable impact on service
quality and variety of services.

Residents in rural areas, in particular, would benefit greatly by obtaining access to telephone
services, often for the first time.

Finally, businesses and investors in the sector would also benefit from the project. The
privatization of ENITEL and the strengthening of TELCOR would lead to a more transparent and
accountable regulatory framework, with more competition, low international prices and higher
quality of services.


6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project's objectives were to be achieved through six components detailed below:

1. TELCOR Institutional Strengthening (US$2.48 million)
This component will provide the technical assistance to address the policy, legal and
regulatory issues regarding the establishment of a truly competitive telecommunications
sector with an independent regulator as a cornerstone.
    a. Consultancy to establish a national telecommunications sector policy.
    b. Consultancy to draft an offer to the World Trade Organization Agreement on
         Basic Telecommunications.
    c. Legal consultancy to review legal and regulatory environment, propose changes
         to sectoral laws and draft necessary amendments, with the objective of improving
         the independence of TELCOR.
    d. Regulatory consultancy to analyze sector regulations, recommend and draft



                                                 4

       amendments and new regulations, including the environmental concerns, both
       regarding physical layout of lines as well as consideration for potential impacts
       and mitigation measures in sensitive areas, and generally support TELCOR on a
       long-term basis.
    e. Consultancy to review and propose institutional changes to TELCOR,
       organizational structure, management, procedures, administration, and propose an
       action plan to transfer staff from the old to the new structure.

2. Radio Spectrum management system (US$4.35 million)
    a. Consultancy to assess needs, develop tender and evaluate offers
    b. Procurement of new system under standard IDA procurement guidelines.
    c. Training in use of the system.

3. Rural telecommunications development fund - FITEL (US$1.44 million)
The fund would be made up from contributions by all telecommunications service
providers. The fund would be used to subsidize investments to deploy
telecommunications infrastructure to those carriers willing to operate in rural areas,
which the GON considered would not be served without such subsidy. Subsidies were to
be awarded in competitive bidding processes. This component was divided in the
following subcomponents:
    a. Consultancy to develop a rural telecommunications strategy
    b. Consultancy to analyze legal status of the fund
    c. Consultancy to undertake demand studies
    d. Consultancy to prepare fund guidelines and regulations, prepare and conduct
       bidding process for eventual allocation of fund proceeds
    e. Subprojects of the rural telecommunications development fund

4. On-going privatization of ENITEL (US$3.93 million)
    a. International legal consultancy
    b. Investment bank fees and charges
    c. ENITEL financial audit
    d. Development and implementation of a public relations campaign

5. Project management (US$1.47 million)
These are funds allocated for project management activities. The PMU would handle the
Procurement, Administration and Accounting of the Project.

6. Guarantee Y2K compliance of ENITEL's telecommunications networks: US$4.33

6.6 Revised Components

The consultancy hired to help FITEL develop a rural strategy determined that in order to
solve the rural access deficit, around $8 million would be required. Given this, a new
project was proposed by the Bank and agreed by the GON. In the meantime, however,
FITEL was established and with the advice of the Bank it decided to use available funds
from the rural component of the project to carry on pilot projects on telephony,



                                              5

telecenters and e-government. Internet service was not available in most of the country,
and private investment seemed to be unwilling to provide public access in rural (and even
in some urban) areas due to uncertainty of demand and lack of infrastructure. Thus, on
July 18, 2003, the Bank agreed to a request made by the GON regarding a new
description of the Rural Telecommunications Development Component. Component 3
was thereby changed to:

    3. Pilot Development of Rural Telecommunications, Telecenters and Online
        Government Services ($1.2 million)
            a. Pilot rural telephony subcomponent ($600,000): this subcomponent would
               finance the government subsidy portion of the investment required by
               private operators to implement a rural telecommunications pilot project,
               through the same Output-Based Aid (OBA) mechanisms originally
               foreseen under the component.
            b. Pilot telecenters ($350,000): this subcomponent would finance goods and
               services (including the purchase of Internet access from private Internet
               Service Providers), consulting services and a limited amount of training,
               as required for the establishment and operation of a selected number of
               telecenters in post offices throughout the country (17 are estimated for this
               pilot, one in every district).
            c. Online Government Services ($250,000): this subcomponent would
               finance goods and technical assistance for a small number of online
               government services to be provided through a web portal (it is estimated
               that at least 6 services, provided by at least four different government
               agencies, will be part of this pilot).

These changes in component 3 were approved by the Board on July 18, 2003.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

New project indicators were introduced for component 3, according to the following
table:


 Subcomponent                   Indicator                                       Expected
                                                                                Date

 Rural Telephony Pilot          A private operator is selected to install at    October 31,
                                least 60 public payphones in rural locations    2004

 Telecenters and Online         At least 17 pilot telecenters in post offices   June 30,
 Government Services Pilot      are installed and 6 online government
                                services operational                            2004


As per request from the GON, along with the change in description for Component 3, the
loan was reallocated among existing categories as shown in the table below, and the



                                               6

closing date extended to June 30, 2005.

Alocation of Credit Proceeds (in SDR equivalent)


                                                  Original   Modified
Expenditure Category
1. Goods                                            5,650,334 6,640,000
2. Consultants' Services                            2,228,805 2,750,000
3. Training                                           536,226    150,000
4. Rural Telecommunications Subprojects               729,560    460,000
5. Operating costs of PIU                             335,597    150,000
6. Refunding of the Project Preparation Advance     1,459,120 1,450,000
7. Unallocated                                        660,358           0
Total                                             11,600,00011,600,000


Delays in TELCOR reorganization and in the privatization process; as well as a proposed
second tender process for rural telephony eventually pushed the closing date to June 30,
2006.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The PDO defined were clear, realistic and were much in line with the CAS, especially
regarding the following goals:

    · Modernization of the State
    · Develop the rural sector
    · Consolidate growth through private sector development

Lessons learned in other telecommunication restructuring and privatization projects were
reflected in the project design. Worth mentioning are the following:

    · A clear, predictable regulatory framework is a prerequisite to attracting private
        investment in the sector;
    · Government should create an independent, technical, and self-financed regulatory
        entity to grant new licenses, solve disputes among operators and protect the
        public interest;
    · Government should not participate as a provider of telecom services, which are
        more efficiently run by private companies; and
    · The financial rate of return for telecom investments in rural areas may not attract
        private firms. The Government should establish a financial mechanism for
        telecom projects in rural areas.

Given that TELCOR did not have adequately trained personnel, the Bank decided that
UCRESEP would rather be in charge of project management during the first stages. This
would prove to be a good arrangement, as UCRESEP later became the entity in charge of
procurement of several other Bank projects, leaving only the technical work to TELCOR.



                                                7

An important input from the Bank during project preparation was to improve ENITEL in
order to increase the chances of a successful privatization process. Short term financial
burden and operational inefficiencies, along with huge investment requirements reduced
ENITEL's attractiveness, especially in a market that was slowing down at that time.


7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

Components were reasonable in terms of their scope and direct relation with the PDO.
Following, a brief discussion of key factors that affected each component:

Factors outside the control of government agencies

The main factor that affected partly the privatization efforts was the fact that the
privatization trend, especially after the year 2000, slowed down worldwide. Even though
it is true that ENITEL at the time was not an attractive company per-se, privatization
efforts in telecommunications were hit by the stock market crisis of 2000.

Additionally, once the privatization was awarded, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack
delayed the closing of the privatization deal with TELIA/EMCE. However, this
represented no major delay overall and had no major impact on the rest of the project.

The cancellation of approximately $1 million at the end of the project was due to the fact
that the first rural telecommunications project tendered by the FITEL, despite having an
estimated subsidy of approximately $1 million, was awarded without any disbursement
from the Bank. The only requirement made by the winning bid was an exemption of
0.5% on the telecommunications fee applied to all operators (estimated in approximately
$850 thousand). So it was TELCOR who awarded the subsidy in this tender in the form
of waived fees. This actually was sought by the regulator as an opportunity to hold a
second tender initially not planned.

A second tender for 300 public telephones was held. However, whereas the first bid
consisted in installing payphones in mobile-covered rural communities in the Pacific and
Central regions of the country that didn't have public access to telephones, the second bid
was intended to install payphones in the Atlantic region, which is less densely populated
and lacked any coverage at all. This situation caused that the only bid presented
requested a $6 million subsidy. Given that the amount available was only $1 million, the
proximity of the closing date and taking into account that the follow-up project was
already approved by the Bank and by the GON, it was agreed that these remaining funds
were to be cancelled.

It is also worth mentioning Congress delays in approval of changes to the
Telecommunications and Privatization Laws increased uncertainty in the market,
affecting private investments in the sector.

Similarly, the creation of a Public Services Regulator (one entity merging all regulators)
is also currently increasing uncertainty in the market. The law was approved by Congress
in January 2005 and triggered a nine-month debate in the country on whether public
utility regulation should be carried out by sector-specific regulators or by a multi-sector


                                               8

regulator. This debate was resolved on October 2005 when the President and the main
opposition party agreed that the law would not take effect until the end of the current
administration set for January 2007.

Factors generally subject to government control

The Government showed a strong commitment towards the project and its main
objectives. The government took all the necessary actions required for a successful
privatization of ENITEL, including, inter alia, a drastic tariff rebalancing and the
reestructuring of the company, assuming part of the long term financial burden it had and
laying off personnel. The PIU proved to be very effective and strong leaders, as they
championed the project on every stage and kept continuity across governments.

However, the changing leadership at TELCOR had an impact on the efficiency of the
project: the PIU had to pitch the project to all Directors of the entity (TELCOR had six in
the same number of years), and even though, as mentioned before, they all supported the
project, it had an obvious impact on the speed of implementation.

The role of UCRESEP, on the other side, proved to be valuable during leadership
changes in TELCOR. UCRESEP suffered less turmoil throughout implementation and
hence the project did not have delays or problems in terms of financial management and
procurement processes.

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

TELCOR had the flexibility to propose the changes in Component 3 described above.
These changes reflected a slight variation in the approach towards rural ICT deployment,
and also opened an opportunity to develop a new rural telecommunications project.

TELCOR also kept and supported the PIU throughout implementation, showing a strong
commitment towards the project.

However, the inadequate staffing at TELCOR had a strong impact on implementation.
Even though one of the first consultancies provided TELCOR with an organizational
proposal for the entity including work profiles and roles for all personnel, the entity took
a long time to start implementation of this proposal.


7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Adequate Key Performance Indicators (KPI) were defined for each output. They were
regularly collected to monitor progress toward the PDO by the PIU, and presented and
analyzed by the Bank during supervision missions.

All variables were collected from trusted sources within the government and/or
renowned international institutions (eg ITU, WTO). Sector and country-specific
information was generated by TELCOR and shared with all relevant sector stakeholders.

Even though the main use of the information collected was to monitor implementation,
the information was also used by TELCOR and the Bank to determine the requirements
and outcomes of the new project.




                                              9

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

UCRESEP was the entity in charge of procurement and financial management
throughout the project. The main benefit of this approach is that this institution worked
like a first filter in terms of process review and approval to all procurement operations
from TELCOR (and ENITEL until its privatization). TELCOR on the other side was left
mainly responsible for the successful implementation of the project from a technical
point of view.

This scheme worked out well because UCRESEP was managing several bank projects at
the same time, and hence developed expertise and economies of scale in doing so.
Otherwise, it would have been probably too expensive or inefficient.


7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

After implementation of this project, the telecommunications sector in Nicaragua was
strengthened with private investment, new entrants and a clear regulatory framework
with a strong regulatory entity. However, these improvements benefited mostly urban
and highly populated areas of the country. The rural component fell short as explained
before and even though the FITEL was implemented and the first tender was awarded
successfully, much of the rural area was still unserved.

Following the changes proposed by the government in 2003, and given the success of
this project, the Bank agreed with authorities the design of a follow-up project, aiming
specifically at rural telecommunications. The Rural Telecommunications Project
(P089989) was approved by the Board on April 27, 2006, and will basically help
TELCOR increase access to and reduce costs of telecommunications services in rural
areas of Nicaragua.

The new project will build on the success of this one, and will have three components:

    1. Rural Access. This component will provide public payphones and establish
        internet points of presence in rural areas.

    2. Regulatory Capacity Strengthening and Technical Assistance to Communities.
        This component will continue the strengthening of the regulatory agency, sector
        liberalization, and will also give support to existing government initiatives that
        will benefit from the improved internet connectivity in rural and low income
        communities.

    3. Project Management and Audit.




                                                10

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project has a highly satisfactory relevance of objectives with respect to current
country and global priorities. The GON has completed its National Development Plan
2005-2009 that was presented to the Boards of the IMF and IDA as the country's second
generation Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The role of the private sector as the main
engine of growth through the stimulation of investment and exports is underscored. It
also emphasizes the objective of broad-based economic growth that promotes
employment and rural development.

The main objective of this project, to help strengthen the policy and regulatory
environment in the telecommunications sector and improve rural access to services by
encouraging private investment in those areas, has a direct impact on both private
investment and rural development. A good regulatory and legal environment, along with
a privatized incumbent, guarantees fair play and competition, which in turn increases the
attractiveness of the country for private investment. On the other side, improving rural
access to telecommunications services has a direct impact on the potential economic
growth of rural areas.

The project, additionally, had a satisfactory design. The components and the KPI
defined for each component were closely related to the PDO and even to current PRSP
objectives. However, the assessment of costs made at appraisal for the rural strategy
component proved to be low and had to be redefined.

Finally, the project had a satisfactory implementation. Despite minor shortcomings at
the beginning of the project, like the inadequate staffing and frequent change of
leadership at TELCOR, the project achieved and exceeded all major objectives set.


8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The project fully achieved its development objective: TELCOR became a strong
and technical entity within the government; the privatization process was successful; a
modern Radio Spectrum Management and Monitoring System was put in place; FITEL
was created and held two tenders; and all software for telephone systems in ENITEL
were updated for the year 2,000.

The following graph shows the trend in investment in the telecommunications sector:




                                                11

                                Telecom investment (US$ million)


      50



      40



      30

                                           Privatization
                                          September 2001
      20



      10



            0
                  1998       1999           2000           2001      2002      2003


Investment in 2002 and 2003 far exceeded that accumulated between 1998 and 2001.
Additionally, the number of telephone (fixed and mobile) users increased dramatically,
with penetration going from 3.4 to 16.8 per 100 inhabitants. The following graph shows
this growth:

                           Nicaragua: Telecommunications Market


            800,000

                          Mobile subscribers
            700,000       Fixed subscribers

            600,000


            500,000                                    Second mobile
       s                                                  operator
        serU400,000


            300,000                     Privatization
                                       September 2001

            200,000


            100,000


                 0
                      1998      1999       2000       2001      2002   2003   2004

     Penetration      3.39       3.94       5.02       6.19     7.85   12.16  16.77

The role of the Bank in the achievement of these impressive results proved to be key.
The Bank provided financial support, technical assistance and continuity during
administration changes in the government. Overall, it is estimated that more than $73
million has been created in consumer surplus through the growth in overall coverage of


                                                  12

networks and the drop in prices that have occurred since project implementation in 2000.

Each of the five different outputs defined during project design contributed to the overall
outcome:

   1. Strengthen institutional capacity and policy functions of TELCOR.

   From the start, both the GON and the Bank understood that this was a key component
   in the Project. TELCOR was the entity that would be in charge of regulating the
   process of market liberalization after the privatization, monitor and manage the radio
   frequency spectrum, and be responsible for the rural telecommunications fund.
   Strengthening the regulatory agency and giving it the autonomy and independence it
   required to do this was hence very critical for the success of the program and the
   achievement of the PDO.

   At the beginning, TELCOR lacked the required empowerment, staff, equipment and
   systems to perform its duty. An Institutional Development Unit was created within
   TELCOR to lead and coordinate all activities required to bring the agency up to
   speed in market regulation. Consultancies were started with experts in regulation and
   institutional organization, to determine exactly what changes were required in the
   regulatory framework and in the agency's organization.

   Despite some delays due to Congress approval of modifications in the Law and
   constant changes of TELCOR's Director, these changes were implemented before the
   end of ENITEL's exclusivity period in April 2005. Moreover, even though formal
   reorganization did not take place until 2003, TELCOR managed to increase the
   quantity and quality of its workforce and to organize extensive training programs in
   regulation, interconnection, tariffs and costs, spectrum monitoring, etc. Regarding
   rural telecommunications, a thorough nationwide demand study was undertaken
   before the creation of FITEL. This study provided the necessary inputs for FITEL's
   first tender.

   Regarding market liberalization, it must be mentioned that TELCOR awarded a
   second mobile license in 2001 to Azteca Holdings for $8 million (until then, only
   BellSouth had a mobile license and operated only in certain regions of the country).
   This license was cancelled because the operator failed to meet license conditions; and
   then given to the runner-up (Radio Movil Dipsa, subsidiary of TELMEX) in 2002 for
   $7.1 million. Even though ENITEL had a mobile license, it was Radio Movil Dipsa
   the one that rolled out its network first and challenged then incumbent BellSouth. The
   offer to the WTO on Basic Telecommunications was drafted in 2002. Moreover,
   following this initiative, TELCOR personnel took part in the negotiations of Chapter
   13 of the Dominican Republic and Central America Free Trade Agreement (DR-
   CAFTA), which posed more requirements in terms of commercial policies and
   commitments from the country.

   During 2004, a comprehensive consultancy on the whole regulatory framework was
   carried out, aiming at preparing the market for liberalization in 2005. By the time the
   fixed and long distance markets were finally liberalized, all required regulations were
   in place and TELCOR awarded new licenses, introducing competition in the market,
   mainly in international communications. Liberalization of the basic telephone



                                             13

services in April 2005 brought down the prices for international calls to the US from
$1.00 to $0.15 per minute.

2. Modernize radio frequency spectrum management and monitoring function

A consultancy was done to design the spectrum monitoring and administration unit in
TELCOR. Once this stage was done, a tender was called for the equipment and in
2001 the GON signed a contract with Rhode & Schwarz for EU4.73 million
(approximately $4.3 million). Seven stations were acquired and installed within eight
months. TELCOR personnel were trained and soon were able to handle the
monitoring of frequencies by themselves.

However, regarding the administration of the frequencies, it took over a year to
reconcile the database from the spectrum management system and the one from the
collections department within TELCOR. Nevertheless, after acquiring an additional
user license for the collections department, the same system is being used for both
monitoring and administration of the spectrum.

3. Create rural development fund

The rural development fund (FITEL) was created in TELCOR as part of the
reorganization of the entity during the implementation of component 1 of the project.
The area was formally created in 2004, even though a demand study and preparation
for a rural strategy for Nicaragua had started earlier.

After the first assessment of the rural strategy and the status of telecommunications
infrastructure in the country, it was determined that the amount allocated to this
component during appraisal would not be enough to rollout a national strategy. While
a second project aimed directly at a national strategy for rural telecommunications
was being prepared, this component was revised as explained earlier and changed to
include three different pilot projects: one for telephony, one for telecenters, and the
final one for government online services.

The public telephone component was very successful. FITEL was able to hold two
tenders for public payphones in rural Nicaragua. The first tender was held on
September 2005, and consisted in covering 365 rural communities in the Central and
Pacific region with at least one public payphone and 30 communities with mobile
service coverage. This meant an increase in the number of communities with public
telephone service from 171 to 536 (210% increase). This coverage was achieved
without disbursement requirements from the project, since the operator only
requested a partial exemption of the regulatory fee (in effect, a subsidy from
TELCOR of around $860,000).

Regarding the telecenters component, it was at first determined that they would be
placed in postal offices throughout the country. However, after an initial assessment
of the situation of the postal sector, it was determined that this component could not
be executed. Even though infrastructure for developing the telecenter could be
provided by the project, administration and operation of the facilities in postal offices
would have been compromised.

Finally, the online government services component, despite successful



                                           14

  implementation, had a limited impact, since it was a complement to the telecenters
  component. Internet penetration in Nicaragua is still low and even though these
  services were in operation, little demand was generated among the population.

  4. ENITEL privatization

  The GON's first attempt to privatize ENITEL (second half of the nineties, without
  Bank's assistance) failed because there were no reliable sources of information about
  the company's real financial situation. Actually, before the project was implemented,
  ENITEL had no accounting system in place and hence no financial statements
  reports. The first efforts, therefore, were placed in designing and putting in place an
  accounting system for the company. Additional adjustments had to be made in order
  to meet auditing standards.

  Additionally, in order to reach a higher value, the Bank and the GON came up with
  three main actions: (1) the GON assumed part of ENITEL's long term debt; (2) a
  drastic tariff rebalancing program was to be implemented before privatization; and
  (3) the company would have to layoff part of the personnel. It must be said that on
  top of increasing the value of the company, the GON was assuming all the political
  risk that tariff rebalancing and the layoffs carried.

  Tariff rebalancing was undertaken during 1999 to eliminate cross-subsidies between
  local and international services. The following table summarizes the main variation in
  tariffs during the adjustments in January and August:

                 Installation         Monthly           Local call        Long      ILD*
                                      Charge                           Distance

              Resid. Comm. Resid. Comm. Peak                  Off-
                                                              peak

% Var         +70%      +154% +33% +33%              +80%     -10%     +20%        -18%
(01/99)

% Var         +16%      n.a.      n.a.    +33%       +50%     +100% +25%           -6%
(08/99)

Aggregate     +97%      +154% +33% +77%              +170% +80%        +50%        -23%
% var.

  * International Long Distance

  Regarding ENITEL's workforce, 600 employees enrolled in the voluntary separation
  plan that the company introduced (20% reduction in personnel headcount).

  However, despite these aggressive initiatives, the price offered by the only bidder
  (France Telecom) for 40% of the company plus a management contract was below
  the base price ($63 million against a base price of $79 million), and thus the process
  was declared null in September 2000. The base price was implied in the Law 293 that
  approved the privatization process, and authorities were reluctant to modify it.

  Given this complex scenario, the GON agreed to suggestions made by the Bank
  regarding changes in the Law 293 that would allow more flexibility in qualifications
  and payment terms. Basically, operators with smaller scale would be allowed to apply


                                            15

    and a portion of the payment could be delivered in annual installments.

    With these changes, together with the rebalancing and reorganization efforts done in
    ENITEL before and the improvements in TELCOR that signaled the GON's
    commitment towards the liberalization of the sector, a new process was carried out in
    2001. This time the Consortium Telia-EMCE offered a total of $83 million and was
    awarded the 40% of ENITEL's shares and the management contract.

    During 2002, ENITEL sold an additional 10% to its employees (this was established
    in Law 293) at the same price as the one paid by the winning bid. Additionally, the
    company distributed an additional 1% among its workforce.

    The Law allowed ENITEL to sell the remaining 49% after six months of the
    privatization. The process started during the first quarter of 2003 and ended up selling
    the remaining 49% of shares to America Movil (TELMEX) on January 2004 for
    $49.6 million. Eventually America Movil bought the remaining shares of the
    company from Telia-EMCE and became the main owner of ENITEL.

    International consultants and law firms were hired throughout the process as main
    advisers to the GON, and the privatization process itself was audited separetely by
    both government Attorney General and by the Comptroller General. The whole
    process was deemed as transparent and all communications and bid openings were
    public and/or published in the official newspaper.

    5. Guarantee Y2K compliance of all telecommunications equipment

    ENITEL needed to upgrade the software and hardware of the computer systems both
    in the telephone exchanges and in the X.25 data network used by the banking system
    to exchange information, to comply with the year 2,000 requirements. Existing
    software at the exchanges was outdated and patched, so it was decided that the best
    solution would be to replace it. Additionally, some minor hardware upgrades were
    undertaken.

    The implementation of this component was successful. All software upgrades were
    installed before the new millennium. Consultancies for evaluation and actual
    implementation were done effectively, especially when the narrow timeline available
    (the project was approved by the Board on November 15, 1999) is considered.



8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

All figures are in 2006 dollars.

The project has generated net benefits for the GON of between $16 and $194 million.
The government received $214 million for the privatization, and company valuation
ranges between $0 and $178 million. Additionally, the second mobile license generated
$9.2 million. The present value of disbursements is $28.6 million. The following table
explains the two scenarios analyzed:


                                             16

Privatization Proceeds
(In 2006 $)                 Conservative      Optimist
NPV privatization           213,527           213,527
Value of Equity             177,845           0
Privatization Proceeds      35,682            213,527


Value of Project Results (2006)
                                 ConservativeOptimist
Privatization Proceeds           35.68         213.53
Proceeds from second mobile      9.15          9.15
(-) Disbursements                28.55         28.55

Value of Net Benefits            16.28         194.13


On top of this, however, there are additional benefits generated by the project on
consumers in the telecommunications market. In summary, the present value of gains in
consumer surplus are expected to be at least of around $73 million.

Arguably, additional non quantified benefits have been generated from the installation of
the spectrum and radio frequency monitoring and administration system, as well as from
additional tax income that new companies (including ENITEL) have generated under the
new regulatory framework. Rural areas seved by the first FITEL project also benefited by
reducing the cost of communications (saving commuting time and cost).

A detailed explanation of the calculations used for this section is included in Annex 5.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall rating for the project is Satisfactory. The PDO was achieved in a timely
manner, all outputs goals were met or surpassed and no major problems or delays were
identified throughout implementation. Entry of new operators and privatization of the
incumbent generated benefits to consumers in excess of $73 million and to the
government of between $16 and $194 million.



8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

As more telephones were installed, lower income population, both living in urban and
rural areas, had access to a telephone.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening



                                              17

(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project had a substantial impact on TELCOR. The regulatory agency was
strengthened and reorganized; and its personnel well-trained.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

UCRESEP also developed expertise in financial management and procurement
procedures for Bank projects. Moreover, UCRESEP began to manage several projects for
different entities within the GON based on this expertise.


8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

No beneficiary survey or Stakeholder Workshops were held.


9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The risk to development outcome is rated as Negligible to Low. This is mainly because,
even though future benefits from the project are still expected to continue in the long
term, all planned outcomes have been achieved already; and the risk of them being
unsustainable is negligible. It would be hard for the government to re-nationalize a
successful company such as ENITEL. Moreover, public perception towards the
privatization of the company and the modernization of the sector is good.

After the main operation behind ENITEL's privatization, the government sold an
additional 10% and gave 1% of the remaining shares to all ENITEL workers. In 2004,
the government sold the remaining 49% to a private company. So the Government has no
current stake in the company. Private investment and the benefits that the competitive
environment has brought to the market (in terms of price reduction, quality of service,
coverage and options) have also proved to be significant.

Risks regarding TELCOR are also negligible. The entity has consolidated as a regulatory
agency and is well respected within the sector and the government. FITEL's first project
was successful and the Fund is currently designing a second one to serve more rural areas
in the country. The creation of a Superintendency of Public Services will have little
impact in the technical capabilities of TELCOR. Actually, it is expected that TELCOR
and its staff will continue to operate as the Intendencia de Telecomunicaciones. FITEL
will also continue to operate as a Fund managed by this Intendencia de
Telecomunicaciones.

Finally, it must be said that the fact that a new project has been approved by the
Nicaraguan Congress shows the continuing commitment of the GON towards the
telecommunications sector and all the reforms that this project introduced in the market.




                                                18

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The rating is satisfactory. The Bank ensured the government's commitment towards the
privatization process and the maintenance of TELCOR as an autonomous regulatory
agency, the most critical components of the project in terms of industry development and
reform. Additionally, the PIU that was implemented proved to be resilient despite
frequent leadership changes in TELCOR and minimized delays in implementation. The
PDO and the outputs defined at appraisal were well defined.

However, even though Component 3 was reassessed during implementation, relying on
the postal system for the rollout of the telecenters pilot sub-component before
determining if it was prepared could have been avoided if a broader analysis of the ICT
sector had been executed at appraisal.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during supervision is rated as satisfactory. The Bank advised
the government, TELCOR, UCRESEP and the PIU when necessary on procurement and
implementation of the different components. During the privatization stage, the Bank
committed the national government in the process by involving the President of
Nicaragua in the appointment of key officers in the state-owned company. It is also worth
mentioning that the modification of Component 3, identified by consultants involved in
the definition of FITEL's strategy, was closely coordinated between the Bank and
TELCOR, resulting in a straight-forward process.

However, Bank supervision missions could have been more frequent, especially given the
constant changes in leadership at TELCOR.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank Performance is rated satisfactory. Throughout the project,
collaboration between the Bank and the implementing agency has been valuable and
critical for the program's success.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory



                                                19

The rating is satisfactory. Throughout the preparation and implementation, the GON has
proved to be committed and supported the project. The privatization of ENITEL required
a strong position from the government in order to change the company and prepare it for
the operation. Additionally, the implementation of the other components, even though
more closely related to the telecommunications industry, were fully supported by the
government and, when required, other ministries and government officials collaborated
with the Bank, the PIU and TELCOR.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency          Performance

                TELCOR's performance is rated as satisfactory. The project helped
                improve and strengthen the entity, despite it did not have the necessary
                empowerment or adequate staff at first. The PIU became part of TELCOR
                and the agency began to implement organizational changes that were
                suggested by the first consultancies executed under the project. The PIU
TELCOR          and the project kept operating despite the frequent changes of Director in
                TELCOR (roughly once a year), and the impact those delays due to this
                frequent change in leadership caused were not dramatic for the final
                outcomes of the project. All TELCOR Directors appointed throughout
                implementation strongly supported the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of the GON is rated as satisfactory. Government officials
showed commitment and supported the project during preparation and implementation.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The main lessons learned from this project are:

    · Privatizations are very difficult processes that require strong political will to
        implement. Unfortunately, it is hard to estimate when a process starts up to what
        point government commitment will hold. In the case of Nicaragua, it took a
        strong intervention from the President himself by personally appointing officials
        in the state-owned company in order to maintain such commitment and guarantee
        the preparation of the entity for the privatization. Still, it took over two years and
        one failed attempt to finally achieve the privatization.
    · Frequent changes in leadership in the implementing agency can delay reform
        processes in the institution. Even though all appointed TELCOR directors
        supported the project, communications efforts and updating and briefing the new


                                              20

       leadership consumed much of the PIU time and effort, and had an overall effect
       on the modernization and reform of the regulatory agency.
    · A strong and effective PIU kept continuity and maintained implementation,
       despite changes in the leadership of TELCOR. Even though, as mentioned above,
       the changes in TELCOR affected its own reform, the stability of the PIU
       throughout the duration of the project minimized the effects on the other
       components of the project, contributing to achieving the PDO and meeting or
       exceeding all other goals.
    · While preparing telecommunication rural strategies, it is important to count on
       relevant ad-hoc studies to quantify the specific requirements of each individual
       country.




12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The frequency of supervision missions by the Bank could have been increased, especially
given the changes in leadership in the regulator. Nevertheless, all new Directors at
TELCOR were briefed on the project in a timely manner by the PIU and Bank officers.


(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            21

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Project will help strengthen the policy and regulatory environment in the
telecommunications sector and improve rural access to services by encouraging private
investment in those areas. In particular, the Project will support the development of a
modern regulatory framework including the drafting and implementation of legal,
economic, and technical regulations related to tariff rebalancing, interconnection
agreements, and technical plans. In addition, support will be provided to strengthen and
improve the autonomy of the regulatory agency with responsibility for sector regulation,
planning, and policy. The Project will support the design and operations of a rural
telecommunications development fund (FITEL) to provide incentives for private
operators to provide telecommunications services in rural areas. Technical and financial
support will also be provided to the new regulator for the establishment and maintenance
of a radio spectrum management system. The Project will fund Technical Assistance for
the privatization of Empresa Nicaragüense de Telecommunicaciones (ENITEL), and also
measures to correct the computer programs of the telephone and data networks to
overcome the year 2000 problem.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The original objectives were not revised


(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                     Original Target     Formally  Actual Value Achieved at
  Indicator     Baseline Value        Values (from        Revised    Completion or Target
                                  approval documents)     Target
                                                          Values              Years

Indicator 1 : Laws and Regulations of the Sector

Value                             Laws and Regulations             New regulations were

(quantitative                     of the Sector in place           issued for the liberalization

or             .                  and Regulator                    of the sector. TELCOR

Qualitative)                      Strenghtened and                 strengthened and enforcing
                                  performing well                  legal framework enacted.
Date achieved 10/28/1999          04/25/2000                       04/15/2004
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Quality and quantity of services
Value          3.3 fixed plus                                      23.6 fixed plus mobile
(quantitative mobile phones       Improved quality and             phones per 100 inhabitants.
or             per 100            quantity and variety of          Reduced number of faults,
Qualitative)   inhabitants        services                         increased investments and




                                                 22

Date achieved 10/28/1999         04/25/2000                          12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Rural Penetration of Telecom Services increased
Value          171 rural
(quantitative communities with                                       First FITEL tender

or             access to public                                      benefited 365 communities

Qualitative)   telephony                                             with public telephones.

Date achieved 10/28/1999                                             09/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %       This meant an increase in the number of communities with public telephone

achievement)   service from 171 to 536 (210% increase).

Indicator 4 : 40% of shares of ENITEL offered for sale to a strategic investor
Value
(quantitative ENITEL is state-   At least 40% of its                 100% of ENITEL's shares

or             owned             shares sold to a                    have been sold to private

Qualitative)                     strategic investor                  investors.

Date achieved 10/28/1999         04/25/2000                          01/15/2004
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)



   Indicator      Baseline  Original Target Values      Formally       Actual Value Achieved

                   Value       (from approval       Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                  documents)             Values                  Years
Indicator 1 :   40% of shares of ENITEL offered to sale to strategic investors
Value                                                                 40% of shares were sold
(quantitative or                                                      to strategic investor in
Qualitative)                                                          2001.
Date achieved                                                         04/25/2000
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               23

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

               Board  ISR Ratings at  Amount
Restructuring Approved Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
   Date(s)     PDO                  Restructuring           Changes Made
              Change     DO     IP   in USD M
                                                  It was determined that in order to
                                                  solve the rural access deficit
                                                  around $8 million would be
                                                  required. Given this, a new project
                                                  was proposed by the Bank and
                                                  agreed by the GON. FITEL was
                                                  established and it decided to carry
                                                  on pilot projects on telephony,
                                                  telecenters and e-government.
                                                  Internet service was not available
07/18/2003   N             S     S          13.42 in most of the country, and private
                                                  investment seemed to be unwilling
                                                  to provide public access in rural
                                                  (and even in some urban) areas due
                                                  to uncertainty of demand and lack
                                                  of infrastructure. Component 3 was
                                                  divided in three parts: pilot rural
                                                  telephony subcomponent
                                                  ($600,000); pilot telecenters
                                                  ($350,000); and Online
                                                  Government Services ($250,000).




                                     24

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                  Components                    Estimate    Estimate (USD  Percentage of

                                                (USD M)           M)        Appraisal

STRENGTHEN THE INSTITUTIONAL
CAPACITY AND POLICY FUNCTIONS OF                       2.00           0.77       38.50
TELCOR
ESTABLISH MODERN RADIO SPECTRUM
MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING SYSTEM                       3.67           4.29      116.89

CREATE RURAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DEVELOPMENT FUND                                       1.19           0.32       26.89

ON-GOING PRIVATIZATION OF ENITEL                       3.20           3.34      104.38
PROJECT MANAGEMENT. FINANCIAL
SUPPORT TO THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY                     1.24           2.18      175.81

Y2K. UPGRADE OF SOFTWARE FOR
TELEPHONE SYSTEM AND DATA PACKET                       3.69           3.63       98.37
SYSTEM FOR THE YEAR 2000
                           Total Baseline Cost        14.99          14.53
Physical Contingencies                                 0.00
Price Contingencies                                    0.91
                           Total Project Costs        15.90
Front-end fee PPF                                      0.00           0.00        0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                     0.00           0.00        0.00
                     Total Financing Required         15.90          14.53



(b) Financing


                                              Appraisal
       Source of Funds           Type of                   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                               Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                                 M)       Estimate (USD M)  Appraisal

  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                         15.90            14.53       91.38
ASSOCIATION


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                           25

26

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component           Outputs                     Comments
                    Propose changes and draft New
                    necessary amendments to           regulations were issued to allow TELCOR issue

                    legal and regulatory        licenses and effectively regulate the

                    environment                 telecommunications market in Nicaragua.

                    Propose commitments to
                    WTO                         Commitments to WTO were sent in 2002.

                                                Before the privatization, tariffs were rebalanced in
                    Analyze and recommend       order to reflect costs and allow the new private
                    changes to regulations,     operator to compete.
                    such as tariff rebalancing, Additionally, before liberalizing local and long distance
                    interconnection             in April 2005, a consultancy was carried out to
1. TELCOR           agreements, model           determine whether the regulatory framework required
institutional       licenses                    any changes and if TELCOR was capable of regulating
Strengthening                                   the market efficiently and effectively.

                    Review and propose          One of the first consultancies carried out by the project

                    institutional changes to    was on the organization of the regulatory entity and the

                    TELCOR                      main requirements in terms of systems, human
                                                resources and training.
                    Identify training needs,
                    prepare action plan and     Training programs were prepared and all TELCOR

                    conduct training of         relevant personnel received training in regulation,

                    managers and staff          interconnection, negotiation, etc.

                    Establish institutional     The institutional development unit was established in

                    development unit            order to coordinate all reorganization and training
                                                efforts within the organization
                    Consultancy to assess
                    needs, develop tender and This consultancy was carried out during 2001.
                    evaluate offers
2. Radio spectrum   Procurement of new          Seven stations for managing and monitoring the radio
management system   system                      frequency spectrum were procured in 2001 from
                                                Rhode & Schwarz for approximately $4.3 million.
                    Training in use of the      All personnel from the technical department in
                    system and adaptation       TELCOR were trained in using the system.
                                                A rural strategy was designed. However, one of the

3. Rural developmentConsultancy to establish    main findings was that the available funds were not

fund                rural telecommunications going to be enough to fulfill the main objectives.
                    strategy                    Hence, the modifications to this component and the
                                                negotiations for a follow-up project.

                    Consultancy to analyze      At first it was determined that the fund could be

                    legal requirements for the  created within TELCOR without a new Law. Then, the

                    fund                        FITEL was created after a new Presidential
                                                Decree was enacted in 2004.

                    Consultandy to undertake    A comprehensive nationwide demand study was

                    demand studies              carried out. The study also included a financial model
                                                for the first tender.




                    Investment into the fund forThe first FITEL project (FITEL I) was tendered in 2004,
                    allocation of first round   benefiting 365 communities with at least one public
                    subsidies to subprojects    payphone each and 30 communities with mobile
                                                telephone coverage.
                                                A second FITEL project in the Atlantic region (most
                                                isolated region of the country) was also tendered, but
                                             27 the available funds were below the subsidy request of

                                                    the only bidder. The funds (aproximately US$1 million)
                                                    were cancelled.




                                                    This output was introduced after the modification of

                        Establish 17 telecenters in component 3. However, after a thorough analysis of

                        post offices nationwide     the status of the postal system in the country it was
                                                    decided that it would not be possible to install
                                                    telecenters in them.
                                                    A national portal was developed and several

                        Implement at least six      government institutions had online transactions and

                        national online services    information in it. However, without the telecenter
                                                    component and with very low internet penetration
                                                    levels in the country, the benefits were limited.
                        Consultancy by
                        international legal advisersLegal advisers and investment bank were hired for the

                        and investment bank         privatization.

                                                    Financial auditing was done for ENITEL financial

                        Financial audit             statements for years 1997 and 1998. It must be said
                                                    that the company did not have an accounting system
                                                    before the implementation of the project.
                                                    A first attempt failed because the base price (implicitly
4. Additional financing Privatization - 1st attempt established in the Law) was higher than the only bid
for technical                                       received.
assistance for the
ongoing privatization ofModifications  to legal     Modifications to the Law allowed smaller operators to
                                                    bid for the company, and also gave more flexibility on
ENITEL                  framework                   the payment terms.
                                                    A second attempt was done in September 2001 and
                        Privatization - 2nd attempt 40% of the company plus a managing contract were
                                                    finally sold to TELIA-EMCE for $83 million.
                                                    Soon after the first trench was sold, 10% of shares

                        Privatization - remaining   were sold to employees for $8.3 million, and 1% was

                        shares                      also distributed among ENITEL workers. The
                                                    remaining 49% was sold to America Movil (TELMEX)
                                                    in January 2004 for $49.6 million.
                                                    The PIU was based in TELCOR and maintained
                                                    continuity despite the frequent changes in the entity's

5. Project management                               Director.
                                                    It is also important to mention UCRESEP's
                                                    responsibility for procurement and financial
                                                    management.

6. Y2K migration                                    All software migrations were undertaken in timely
                                                    manner.




                                                 28

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Privatization

In order to analyze the impact of the privatization, a simplified financial model has been used.
Information from audited financial statements from 1997 and 1998 has been used and several
assumptions (listed below) were included.

Some of the most relevant assumptions are:

    · In order to calculate the value of the government's share in ENITEL, cash flows have been
           projected for the company. The value of equity was calculated from the value of the whole
           company.
    · The value of the mobile license that ENITEL had been awarded has been calculated by
           adjusting the price paid for similar licenses tendered in the US at that time (2001).
    · All values mentioned in section 8.3 of the Report are expressed in 2006 dollars.
    · Different discount rates that have been used. For company valuation, the weighed average cost
           of capital of the company was used. For privatization proceeds and disbursements, the
           Nicaraguan country risk was used.

As mentioned in the report, this analysis is not meant to be exhaustive, but provides enough arguments
under a conservative point of view on the efficiency of the project and the benefits generated to the
GON.

The next charts show information collected from ENITEL's audited financial statements for 1997 and
1998, the main assumptions for the cash flow projections and the actual calculation of privatization
proceeds.


 Balance Sheet (in C$ 000's)                             Income Statement (in C$ 000's)

                                1997      1998                                        1997    1998

 Assets                                                  Revenue

 Current assets               404,601   545,319          Local services           237,489   303,386

 PP&E (net)                 1,241,550 1,336,749          Long dist. services      531,697   487,091

 Work in progress             268,721    62,538          Data transmission         16,874    25,590

                                                         Other income              41,475    90,958

 Total Assets               1,914,872 1,944,606          Total Revenue            827,535   907,025


 Liabilities                                             Expenses

 A/P                          171,877   202,330          Operating costs          488,131   452,424

 Current portion of LT Debt   492,374   114,071          Depreciation             172,081   189,602

 LT Debt                      895,380 1,274,281          Financial Costs          198,086   115,917

 Labor liability reserve       76,859    77,974          Monetary losses           96,742   151,514


 Total liability            1,636,490 1,668,656          Total Expenses           955,040   909,457


 Shareholders' Equity         278,382   275,950          EBT                      -127,505   -2,432




                                                 29

 Total Liabilities and SHE        1,914,872  1,944,606               EBITDA                           339,404   454,601

 Rate ($C per US$)                    9.999     11.200               Rate ($C per US$)                  9.448    10.582


 Balance Sheet (in US$ 000's)                                        Income Statement (in US$ 000's)

                                      1997       1998                                                    1997     1998

 Assets                                                              Revenue

 Current assets                      40,464     48,689               Local services                    25,136    28,670
                                                                     Long distance
 PP&E (net)                         124,167    119,353               services                          56,276    46,030

 Work in progress                    26,875      5,584               Data transmission                  1,786     2,418

                                                                     Other income                       4,390     8,596

 Total Assets                       191,506    173,626               Total Revenue                     87,588    85,714


 Liabilities                                                         Expenses

 A/P                                 17,189     18,065               Operating costs                   51,665    42,754

 Current portion of LT Debt          49,242     10,185               Depreciation                      18,213    17,917

 LT Debt                             89,547    113,775               Financial Costs                   20,966    10,954

 Labor liability reserve              7,687      6,962               Monetary losses                   10,239    14,318


 Total liability                    163,665    148,987               Total Expenses                   101,084    85,944


 Shareholders' Equity                27,841     24,638               EBT                               -13,495    -230


 Total Liabilities and SHE          191,506    173,626               EBITDA                            35,923    42,960


The following tables describe the main assumptions used in the model, and show the calculations for
the country risk and the Cost of Capital of the firm and the industry.


Main assumptions


Subscribers 2001                       157,753          (source: ITU)

Increase per year                          4%


ARPU 1998:                                 600US$/yr.

Increase per year                          0%


Operating Expenses:                       50%revenues   (includes savings of $4.4 million from layoffs)
Working Capital:                          10%revenues   (average from 1997 and 1998 figures)
Required Investments                        55US$ mill. (OSS and unfinished local loop in Managua)
CapEx / existing subscriber                100US$

Additional CapEx / new subscriber        1,000US$       (Industry standard)


Mobile license calculation
Price per pop (US - 1997/2001)           14.20          (source: Lemay-Yates Associates Inc.)
Price of a 3minute call - US              1.05          (source: ITU)

Price of a 3minute call - Nicaragua       0.56          (source: ITU)

Price per pop - Nicaragua                 7.57

Population - Nicaragua (millions)         5.20          (source: ITU)




                                                          30

Growth rate at terminal value           3%
Cost of Capital - ENITEL             14.4%



Cost of Capital Calculation

                                 ENITEL    Industry
Debt (LT)                           123,960           Source: Privatization documents (1999)
Equity                               24,638           Source: Privatization documents (1999)
D/E                                    5.03       0.60Source: Damodaran online

Tax (t)                                30%

RF                                   4.50%            Source: Damodaran online

NICPremium                           9.00%            Source: Damodaran online

NICrisk                             13.50%

MRP                                  7.50%
BU                                     1.29           Source: Damodaran online (2001)
BL                                      5.8        1.8


RE                                   57.2%     27.2%
Interest                              8.4%            Source: Privatization documents (1999)


COKWACC                             14.37%


Two scenarios have been analyzed:

(a) Conservative: The company did not report any profits under government management during the
years previous to the privatization. Therefore, assuming the GON wouldn't have been able to turn
around this, all the proceeds from privatization should be accounted for as gains from privatization.
(b) Optimistic: A more optimistic approach would set a value for ENITEL based on an efficient
management of the company by the GON. The following cash flows reflect this:

Cash Flow from Operations


                                      2001       2002      2003          2004       2005      2006


Subscribers                         157,753   164,063   170,626       177,451    184,549    191,931
ARPU                                    600       600        600          600        600       600


Total Revenues (US$ 000's)           94,652    98,438   102,375       106,470    110,729    115,158
Operating costs                      47,326    49,219     51,188       53,235     55,365     57,579


EBITDA                               47,326    49,219     51,188       53,235     55,365     57,579
(-) Taxes                             5,536     6,104      6,695         7,309     7,948     8,612


NOPAT                                41,790    43,115     44,493       45,926     47,417     48,967
(-) CapEx                            70,775    22,085     22,969       23,888     24,843     25,837
(-) Increase in Working Capital         894       379        394          410        426       443
Cash Flow from Operations           -29,879    20,651     21,130       21,629     22,148     22,687

Terminal Value                                                                              205,547



Net Present Value of Operations     148,374




                                                      31

(+) Net Current Assets              30,624

(-) Long Term Debt                 123,960

(+) Value of mobile license         39,381
Value of Equity in 2001             94,419

Value of Equity in 2006            177,845


Under this approach, assuming an efficient management of the company by the GON, the value of the
company would have been of around $148 million in 2001; and the value of its equity $94 million
($178 million in 2006$).

On the other side, the following table depicts the payments that the government received during the
three trenches of the privatization process: 40% plus management contract in 2001, 10% to employees
in 2002 and 49% to TELMEX in 2003 (1% was given to employees):

Privatization
                                      2001    2002       2003   2004    2005    2006

40% (plus management contract)      33,000   10,000    10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000
10% to employees                         0   8,250          0       0       0       0
Remaining 49%                            0       0     49,400       0       0       0
Total                               33,000   18,250    59,400  10,000  10,000  10,000

Value of Privatization in 2006     213,527


And the value of these flows in 2006 was of $214 million. So, as for the privatization, the proceeds for
the GON have been under the two scenarios:

Privatization Proceeds

(In 2006 $)                     Conservative       Optimist
NPV privatization               213,527            213,527
Value of Equity                 177,845            0
Privatization Proceeds          35,682             213,527


On the other side, the second mobile license was tendered in 2003 for $8 million. However, it was
given a year later to Radio Movil Dipsa for $7.1 million. The present value in 2006 of the proceeds of
that tender is $9.1 million.

Finally, the present value of the disbursements that were made under the project is calculated in the
following table:

    Disbursements (millions)          1999    2000       2001   2002     2003    2004   2005   2006
    Accumulated                       0.00     7.15      10.30  13.25   13.63   14.59   15.04  15.17
    Disbursement / year               0.00     7.15       3.15    2.95    0.38    0.96   0.45   0.13
    2006 value                        0.00    15.29       5.93    4.90    0.56    1.24   0.51   0.13

    2006 value of disbursements      28.55


So, if we compare the benefits from the privatization component alone under each scenario and
include the proceeds from the tender for the second mobile license, benefits to the GON exceed the
present value of disbursements:




                                                    32

Value of Project Results (2006)
                                     Conservative   Optimist
Privatization Proceeds                 35.68        213.53
Proceeds from second mobile             9.15         9.15
(-) Disbursements                      28.55        28.55


Value of Net Benefits                  16.28        194.13


So under the conservative scenario, privatization and the issuance of the second mobile license
generated $16 million in net benefits, whereas under the optimistic scenario these benefits would have
been of $194 million.

Consumer Surplus

For consumer surplus calculations, it has been assumed that the segment of demand relevant to this
analysis is assumed to be linear. Basically, the calculation of consumer surplus can be shown in the
following graph:

                          Graph 1. Supply and Demand Curves for Telephone Service

           Price
                        D
                                                             S0
                                                                                      S1


            P0




            P1




                                               Q0             Q1                     Quantity

When supply shifted from S0 to S1 with the introduction of competition and mobile networks, price
dropped and quantity increased. The area shown in stripes represents transfers from operators or
suppliers to consumers, whereas the dotted area represents actual gains in consumer surplus created
with the increase in coverage.

It could be argued that what happened in the market was a combination of shifts in demand and
supply. However, it can be demonstrated that had a shift in demand occurred, it would increase


                                                 33

welfare.

If we take price to be a weighed basket of fixed and mobile services, and quantity to be the total
number of subscribers to both fixed and mobile networks, then the following table can be calculated:


  Weighed price                    17.3    17.1    16.4    15.3    15.5    15.6      15.7       15.7

  Total Subscribers             194,487 254,778 322,262 408,880 671,710 953,104 1,323,600 1,652,510*



   (all figures in US$000s)               2000    2001    2002    2003    2004      2005       2006

  Transfer from suppliers                   517   2,198   4,734   4,300   3,996     3,776     1,829

  New consumer surplus                       80     722   2,609   5,275   7,794    10,960     6,854


  In 2006 US$

  Transfer from suppliers                 1,105   4,139   7,856   6,287   5,148     4,286     1,829  30,649

  New consumer surplus                      171   1,360   4,330   7,713  10,040    12,440     6,854  42,908

  Total gains for consumers               1,276   5,499  12,186  14,000  15,188    16,725     8,683  73,557
  * June, 2006
  (source: ITU, World Bank, TELCOR)


So the total gains for consumers have been of approximately $73 million.




                                               34

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                 Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Marta Lucila Priftis   Senior Program
                       Assistant              CITPO

                       Lead
Eloy Eduardo Vidal     Telecommunications     CITPO
                       Engine
Supervision/ICR
Juan Manuel Galarza    Junior Professional
Tohen                  Associate              CITPO

Arturo Muente
Kunigami               E T Consultant         CITPO

Juan Navas-Sabater     Sr Telecom. Spec.      CITPO

Marta Lucila Priftis   Senior Program
                       Assistant              CITPO

                       Lead
Eloy Eduardo Vidal     Telecommunications     CITPO
                       Engine


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived           DO             IP        Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   12/03/1999              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            0.00
2   05/09/2000              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            0.34
3   11/16/2000              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            7.15
4   06/05/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            8.72
5   10/30/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            8.97
6   11/27/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           10.30
7   06/10/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           12.05
8   12/04/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           13.25
9   05/30/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           13.42
10 10/31/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           13.63
11 11/12/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           13.63
12 04/09/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           14.19
13 10/07/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           14.59
14 05/14/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           15.04
15 11/02/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           15.14
16 06/06/2006               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           15.17


(c) Staff Time and Cost



                                           35

                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

          Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands
                                         No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
                  FY99                                                      49.80
                  FY00                                    21                99.97
                  FY01                                                       0.00
                  FY02                                                       0.00
                  FY03                                                       0.00
                  FY04                                                       0.00
                  FY05                                                       0.00
                  FY06                                                       0.00
                  FY07                                                       0.00
                                  Total:                  21               149.77
Supervision/ICR
                  FY99                                                       0.00
                  FY00                                     7                26.88
                  FY01                                    14                57.35
                  FY02                                    17                76.50
                  FY03                                    18                86.94
                  FY04                                    19                95.32
                  FY05                                    11                57.93
                  FY06                                    21                77.42
                  FY07                                     6                31.77
                                  Total:                 113               510.11




                                      36

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         37

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       38

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  39

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                The completion report/summary from TELCOR / ENITEL:

(i) Assessment of the operation's objective, design, implementation and operational
experience;

The objectives of the Project were generally met and according to plan during the
implementation process.

Nonetheless, there were a few adjustments that had to be made to the budget of some of the
components of the Project because the amounts budgeted were not enough to cover the actual
costs. For example: the budget for the purchase of the RSMS, the budget for the privatization
process (the investment bank and the legal firm), etc.

In regards to TELCOR (The Telecommunications Regulatory Entity of Nicaragua), the major
problem encountered during Project implementation was the continuous changes of authority.
The General Director of TELCOR (its maximum authority) was changed at least six times during
the life of the Project, what caused several delays to the implementation calendar.

(ii) Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives;

Agreed objectives:

     · The Project will help strengthen the policy and regulatory environment in the
         telecommunications sector.
     · The Project will improve rural access to services by encouraging private investment in
         those areas.
     · The Project will support the development of a modern regulatory framework including
         the drafting and implementation of legal, economic, and technical regulations related to
         tariff rebalancing, interconnection agreements, and technical plans.
     · Support will be provided to strengthen and improve the autonomy of the regulatory
         agency with responsibility for sector regulation, planning, and policy.
     · The Project will support the design and operations of a rural telecommunications
         development fund to provide incentives for private operators to provide
         telecommunications services in rural areas.
     · Technical and financial support will also be provided to the new regulator for the
         establishment and maintenance of a radio spectrum management system.
     · The Project will fund Technical Assistance for the privatization of Empresa
         Nicaragüense de Telecommunicaciones (ENITEL ­ The Dominant State-Owned
         Telecommunications Operator of Nicaragua), and also measures to correct the computer
         programs of the telephone and data networks to overcome the year 2000 problem.

Outcomes:

     · The Project will help strengthen the policy and regulatory environment in the
         telecommunications sector. In particular, the Project will support the development of a
         modern regulatory framework including the drafting and implementation of legal,
         economic, and technical regulations related to tariff rebalancing, interconnection



                                                 40

  agreements, and technical plans. Thanks to the Project, TELCOR hired technical
  assistance from an international consultant firm (Strategic Policy Research) to draft the
  National Sector Policy and Guidelines to be used for the opening of Nicaragua's
  Telecommunications Market to competition. In addition, an international consultant (Mr.
 Omar de Leon) was hired to draft several regulations, such as: tariffs, interconnection
 agreements, licensing, etc. to help it to perform its regulatory duties in a more efficient
 and transparent manner. On the other hand, with the help of some local technical
 consultants, TELCOR was able to draft several technical plans, which some are now
 used or in effect.
· The Project will improve rural access to services by encouraging private investment in
  those areas. In addition, the Project will support the design and operations of a rural
  telecommunications development fund to provide incentives for private operators to
  provide telecommunications services in rural areas. Thanks to the Project, TELCOR
  obtained technical assistance from an international consultant firm (Apoyo Consultoria)
  which was responsible for the design of a national telecommunications strategy, for the
  execution of a nationwide demand study for rural telecommunication projects, for the
  creation of a financial model for project evaluation, and for the proposal of possible rural
  telecommunications projects. In addition, TELCOR obtained funds and technical
  assistance for the creation of FITEL (a Telecommunications Investment Fund) and for
  the implementation of the first bidding process of a pilot project for rural
  telecommunications (Proyecto Fitel 1) in Nicaragua, which was successfully
 implemented by ENITEL (the fixed lines operator), by installing a public telephone in
  more than 300 rural communities located nationwide. Most of the funds used in the
  implementation of this first project came from the operator ENITEL (thus encouraging
  private investment in the sector).
· Support will be provided to strengthen and improve the autonomy of the regulatory
  agency with responsibility for sector regulation, planning, and policy. Thanks to the
  Project, TELCOR obtained funds to hire technicalassistance from an international
  consultant firm (Apoyo Consultoria) in order to get help in the revision process and to
 obtain technical advice on how to modify its organizational structure and internal
 procedures, on how to train its existing and/or new staff, based on international
 parameters and standards, in order to become a more autonomous and efficient
 telecommunications regulator.
· Technical and financial support will also be provided to the new regulator for the
  establishment and maintenance of a Radio Spectrum Management System (RSMS).
  Thanks to the Project, TELCOR obtained funds to hire technical assistance from an
  international consultant (Mr. Edward Farell) who helped first in the design process of
 the technical specifications and the bidding documents for the purchase of the Radio
 Spectrum Management System (RSMS) that was needed by TELCOR based on the
 country's topographic characteristics and second in the verification process of the
 specifications of the new system as well as supervising its installation process. Moreover,
 the Project allowed TELCOR to purchase from an international company (Rhode &
 Schwarz) a modern Radio Spectrum Management System (RSMS), which is operating
 successfully since its installation in the year 2002.
· The Project will fund Technical Assistance for the privatization of Empresa
  Nicaragüense de Telecommunicaciones (ENITEL). Thanks to the Project, ENITEL
 obtained funds to hire technical assistance (financial, technical and legal assistance) for
 the Privatization Process of ENITEL, which was successfully privatized in the year 2001
 after several failing attempts.
· The Project will also fund measures to correct the computer programs of the telephone
  and data networks of ENITEL to overcome the year 2000 problem. Thanks to the Project,


                                           41

        ENITEL obtained the funds needed to buy the software from several suppliers, such as
        Siemens, Lucent, etc. to overcome the Y2K problem for its computer programs of the
        telephone and data networks systems.



(iii) Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation and
implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may
be helpful in the future;

In regards to TELCOR, the major problem encountered during the implementation of the Project
was the continuous changes of authority. The General Director of TELCOR was changed at least
six times during the life of the Project, what caused several delays to the implementation
calendar.

(iv) Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any cofinanciers, or of other
partners during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including the
effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned; and

In regards to the Bank, the only element that could be improved is the frequency of visits
(supervisory missions from the Bank) during the life of the Project.




                                              42

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    43

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document for this project (October 28, 1999)
Project Aide-Memoires
Project ISRs
Back-to-Office reports
Project Appraisal Document for the Rural Telecommunications Project - P089989 (February 17,
2006)




                                              44

