                                         Nicaragua
                      Telecommunications      Sector Reform Project
                                    Credit No. 3291-NI

                    Proposed Amendment        to the Credit Agreement


                                    INTRODUCTION

1.      This memorandum seeksthe Executive Directors' approval to amend the Credit
Agreement of the Nicaragua Telecommunications Sector Reform Project (Cr. No. 3291-
NI). The proposed Amendment would restructure one of the components of the project,
namely the rural telecommunications development component, by allocating part of the
proceeds of the Credit to provide financing for the development of a web portal with a
number of online government services and the establishment of telecenters to provide
accessto such services in a selected number of post offices throughout the country.

2.      The Amendment would also extend the Credit's closing date by one year, to
June 30,2005.

                               PART I - BACKGROUND

3.      The Nicaragua Telecommunications Sector Reform Project was approved by the
Board on 18 November 1999, the Development Credit Agreement was signed on 15
December 1999 and became effective on 25 April 2000. The closing date of the Credit is
June 30, 2004. The key objective of the project is to strengthen the policy and regulatory
environment in the telecommunications sector and improve accessto services. The
Project implementation entity is UCRESEP.

4.      The Project costs were estimated at US$lS million at appraisal with a Bank credit
of US$15.9 million equivalent. The Rural Telecommunications Development component
was estimated at $4m, but $3m had to be urgently reassignedbetween appraisal and
Board to tackle ENITEL's Y2K problem, which was a major potential obstacle to its
privatization. Hence the component was approved with only $lm to promote the
deployment of rural telecommunications services by private operators, through an
Output-Based Aid scheme (minimum subsidy concessions).

5.      The PAD also mentions as a potential objective of this component the
establishment of telecenters to provide public Internet access,to be confirmed through
the detailed design studies which were conducted under the project. The legal agreement,
however, failed to incorporate this concept which was in the spirit of the original project
design and which the current proposed amendment would attempt recover.

6.      Once the studies for the detailed design of the rural telecommunications fund
were conducted, it was confirmed that the $lm was not enough to conduct the
comprehensive rural telecommunications project originally foreseen. Indeed, the true

                                              -2-



financial requirements to serve all the localities between 500 and 1000 inhabitants which
still do not have public payphones (750), were more in the range of $7m. Hence, the
government requested, and the CAS foreseesin the High Case Scenario, a follow-up
Rural Telecommunications Development Project.

7.       As a consequence,the government, through a partnership between UCRESEP,
TELCOR and the Nicaraguan Post Office (CdN), proposed to the Bank, in a letter of the
Minister of Finance dated June 24,2003, the request to use part of those funds to finance
a pilot project consisting of Internet accesscenters (telecenters) in post offices, from
which online government services can be provided. The government had identified under
the EMTAC project a number of government services which could easily render
themselves for this modality of service provision, such as services related to payment of
traffic fines, payment of certain types of taxes, renewal of permits for importers and
customs agents,payment of certain social security taxes. In addition, the proposed new
EMTAC II operation, under preparation, is expected to have as one of its objectives a
general improvement in the delivery of government services to citizens and businesses,
thorough, among others, further development and provision of more online government
services. The letter also proposes to keep under a small pilot rural telephony subproject
among the activities foreseen under the component, to serve as a test for the eventual
future scaling up of the model, under the potential follow-up Rural Telecommunications
Development Project.

8.       This approach would effectively split the component roughly in two halves: 1) a
rural telephony pilot project, for which a careful selection of a small number of locations
would have to be conducted, such that they can be served cost-effectively within the
available budget, and 2) a telecenter and online government services pilot project, which
would establish a small number of telecenters in post offices and develop a small number
of online government services to be provided through a web portal.

                         PART II - PROPOSED AMENDMENT

9.       Overall description of the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment
would involve the division of the rural telecommunications development component into
three separatesubcomponents, one for rural telephony, the other one for telecenters in
post offices and the third one for online government services.

10.      Project Objectives. The proposed amendment would not modify the original
project objectives.

11.      New Description of the Rural Telecommunications        Development Component.
Only this component, as described in Schedule 2 Part C to the Credit Agreement, would
be amended and renamed "Pilot Development of Rural Telecommunications, Telecenters
and Online Government Services". This component would have three subcomponents:

                                              -3-



     (i)      Pilot rural telephony subcomponent: this subcomponent would finance the
              government subsidy portion of the investment required by private operators to
              implement a rural telecommunications pilot project, through the same Output-
             Based Aid (OBA) mechanisms originally foreseen under the component.

     (ii)    Pilot telecenters: this subcomponent would finance goods and services
              (including the purchase of Internet accessfrom private Internet Service
             Providers), consulting services and a limited amount of training, asrequired
             for the establishment and operation of a selected number of telecenters in post
             offices throughout the country (17 are estimated for this pilot, one in every
             district).

     (iii)   Online Government Services: This subcomponent would finance goods and
             technical assistancefor a small number of online government services to be
             provided through a web portal (it is estimated that at least 6 services, provided
             by at least four different government agencies, will be part of this pilot).

12.       The IDA-financed portion of the component would rise from $1 million to $1.2
million, the additional funds coming from cost savings in other components. The
breakdown of this $1.2m is as follows: $600,000 for the pilot rural telephony
subcomponent, $350,000 for the pilot telecenter subcomponent and $250,000 for online
government services.

13.       The reasons for housing the telecenters in post offices for the provision of online
government services are mainly three: 1) the requirement of identification of the
individual initiating the request by a government official, necessary for most government
services, 2) the guaranteeof collection by a government official of any fees due for the
provision of such services, and 3) the use of regular mail to deliver some services that
require the physical transport of documents to and from the government agencies
concerned. After the experience with the initial 17 pilot centers, the possibility of
subcontracting some of the functions relating to administration of the centers to a private
entity will be seriously considered as an option for scaling-up this pilot.

14.       Implementation    Arrangements.    For the purposes of the implementation of this
amended project, UCRESEP will continue to act as the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) in charge of the project management.

15.       Financial management. The PIU will continue to maintain project accounts in
formats and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and have them audited
each year in accordance with the Bank guidelines by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank, furnishing them to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
The PIU will continue to maintain records and accounts of all transactions relating to the
project and will submit quarterly progress reports, in addition to a consolidated annual
report.

                                             -4-



 16.     Procurement. For the pilot rural telephony subcomponent, the same procurement
 arrangements will apply, as per Schedule 3, Section I, Part C.4 of the Development Credit
 Agreement (DCA), and Schedule 3, Section II, Part C.4 of the DCA. The pilot telecenter
 and online government services subcomponents will finance goods and services
 (including the purchase of Internet accessfrom private Internet Service Providers), and
 consulting services in accordance with Bank's procurement guidelines.

 17.     Pti'or Review. The procedures specified in Schedule 3 of the Development Credit
 Agreement will apply to the new subcomponents.

 18.     Disbursement. The proceeds of the amended component would be disbursed
 against
 eligible expenditures in accordance with the procedures and same percentagesestablished
 in Schedule 1 of the DCA.

 19.     Closing date. The closing date of the project will be extended by one year to June
 30,2005, provided that the audits for the Project are up to date.

 20.     Project Monitoring   and Performance Indicators. Project performance under
 the reformed component will be monitored and evaluated according to the following
 Project Indicators.

1Subcomuonent              1Indicator                                   1Exuected date     1
 Rural Telephony Pilot      A private operator is selected to install at October 31, 2004
                            least 60 public payphones in rural
                            locations
 Telecenters and Online     At least 17 pilot telecenters in post        June 30,2004
 Government Services        offices are installed and 6 online
 Pilot                       government services onerational

The World Bank                                                1818  H Street N.W.         (202) 477-I  234
INTERNATIONAL   BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION   AND DEVELOPMENT    Washington,   D.C. 20433    Cable  Address:  lNTBAFf?AD
INTERNATJONAL   DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION                     U.S.A.                      Cable  Address:   INDEVAS




                                                                                                July 18,2003

         His Excellency
         Lit. EduardoMontealegreRivas
         Minister of FinanceandPublic Credit
         Ministry of FinanceandPublic Credit
         Managua,Nicaragua

                            Re:       NICARAGUA - Credit No. 3291-NI
                                       (TelecommunicationsSectorReform Project)
                                       Amendmentto theDevelopmentCredit Agreement

          Excellency:

                  Pleaserefer to the DevelopmentCredit Agreement(the DCA) for the above-referenced
         Project betweenthe Republic of Nicaragua(the Recipient) and the International Development
          Association(theAssociation) datedDecember15,1999, asamended.

                  We are pleasedto inform you that pursuantto your requestdatedJune 24, 2003, the
         Association agreesto: (a) amendthe descriptionof Part C of the Project; (b) reallocateamounts
          amongexisting categoriesand(c) extendtheClosing Dateto June30,2005.


          Schedule1

                  Paragranh1

                  The Table attachedasAnnexreflectsthe newreallocation.


          Schedule2

          Part C shall read:

          "Pilot Develoument of Rural Telecommunications. Tele-centers and Online Government
          Services"

          Financing of:
              (a) Rural TelecommunicationsSubprojects;and
              (b) provision of goodsandtechnicalassistancefor:
                   (i) the installation of telecenters;and
                   (ii) the design,developmentandoperationof on-line governmentservices.

                                                -2-



        Pleaseconfirm your agreementto the foregoingamendmentsby signing and dating each
copy of the this Letter of Amendment in the spacesprovidedbelow. This Letter of Amendment
shall be executedin two counterparts,eachif which shallbe an original. Upon your confirmation,
pleasereturn one fully executedoriginal to us. The provisions of this Letter of Amendment shall
enterinto effect on the dateof this letter,providedthat IDA receivesonesignedoriginal.


                   INTERNATION&            DEVELOPMENT       ASSOCIATION



                                BY
                                           JaneArm&age
                                              Director
                           CentralAmerica CountryManagementUnit
                            Latin America andthe CaribbeanRegion




AGREED AND CONFlRMED:

REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

By:
      Authorized Representative

Date:

                                    -3-


                                                                     ANNEX


                               Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated         % of
                                (Expressedin        Expenditures
     Categorv                  SDR Eauivalentl     to be Financed


(1)  Goods                           6,640,OOO     100%of foreign
                                                   expendituresand
                                                   80% of local
                                                   expenditures

(2)  Consultants'Services            2,750,OOO

(3)  Training                          150,000     100%

(4)  Goods,Works and                   460,000     100%of the amount
     Consultants'Servicesunder                     specifiedin each
     Rural Telecommunications                      SubprojectAgreement
     Subprojects

(5)  OperatingCosts                     150,000

(6)  Refundingof Project              1,450,000    Amount duepursuant
     PreparationAdvance                            to Section2.02.(b) of
                                                   this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                            -o-


            TOTAL                  11.600.00Q

