Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3291-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Telecommunications Sector Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 15, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3291-NI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 as amended through December 2, 
1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
Page  2
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
“Eligible Enterprises” means private telecommunications enterprises 
eligible for implementation of Rural Telecommunications Subprojects in accordance with 
the Operational Manual (as defined below); 
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(d)
“Enabling Legislation” means Law 200 published in La Gaceta (as defined 
below) on August 18, 1995, Law 210 published in La Gaceta on December 7 1995, and Law 
293 published in La Gaceta on July 2, 1998; 
(e)
“ENITEL” means Empresa Nicaragüense de Telecomunicaciones, the 
telecommunications corporation created by Law Number 210 published in La Gaceta on 
December 7, 1995;
(f)
“ENITEL Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ENITEL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the ENITEL Implementation Agreement; 
(g)
“Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter from the 
Borrower to the Association dated October 22, 1999; 
(h)
“La Gaceta” means the Borrower’s official gazette; 
(i)
“National Assembly” means the Borrower’s legislative branch; 
(j)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Rural 
Telecommunications Fund (as defined below) and the financing of the Rural 
Telecommunications Subprojects referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
(k)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; 
(l)
“Procurement Management Action Plan” means the plan set forth in the 
letter from the Borrower to the Association dated October 22, 1999; 
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association and the Borrower on October 6, 1998; 
(o)
“Rural Telecommunications Fund” means the fund to be established by the 
Borrower and operated by TELCOR (as defined below) for the financing of rural 
telecommunications services, including Rural Telecommunications Subprojects; 
(p)
“Rural Telecommunications Subprojects” means rural telecommunications 
investments to be carried out by Eligible Enterprises eligible for financing in part 
out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the Operational Manual; 
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(r)
“Subproject Agreement” means any agreement to be entered into between 
TELCOR and an Eligible Enterprise in respect of a Rural Telecommunications Subproject 
in accordance with the Operational Manual; 
(s)
“TELCOR” means Instituto Nicaragüense de Telecomunicaciones y Correos, 
the telecommunications regulatory agency specified in Law 200 published in La Gaceta 
on August 18, 1995;
(t)
“TELCOR Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
Page  3
between the Borrower and TELCOR pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
TELCOR Implementation Agreement; 
(u)
“TELCOR Staff Development Plan” means the plan for the recruitment of 
experts and training of staff of TELCOR to be approved by the Association pursuant to 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement; 
(v)
“UCRESEP” means Unidad de Coordinación del Programa de Reforma y 
Modernización del Sector Público, the Borrower’s unit for the coordination of the 
reform and modernization of the public sector within its Vice Presidency;  and 
(w)
“WTO” means the World Trade Organization.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Page  4
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 2010 and ending November 15, 2039. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2019  shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through UCRESEP, with the assistance of: 
(i)
TELCOR in respect of Parts A, B, and C of the Project; and 
(ii)
ENITEL in respect of Parts D and E of the Project, all with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, administrative, 
economic and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement each, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, with: 
(i)
TELCOR setting forth their respective responsibilities in the 
implementation 
of Parts A, B and C of the Project including those 
referred to in Sections 
3.05 and 3.06 of this Agreement (the 
TELCOR Implementation Agreement); and 
(ii)
ENITEL setting forth their respective responsibilities in the 
implementation 
of Parts D and E of the Project (the ENITEL 
Implementation Agreement). 
Page  5
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the TELCOR Implementation 
Agreement and the ENITEL Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the TELCOR Implementation Agreement and the ENITEL 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services, and selection of Eligible Enterprises 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, a Project 
unit in charge of coordination of the Project (the PCU) staffed with professionals 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 
31, each year, commencing March 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Association:  
(i)
by October 31 each year, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, 
the reports referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
Section; and
(ii)
by October 31, 2001, in addition to the reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) 
of this Section, the progress made in the 
strengthening of the capacity of 
TELCOR to assume, under the terms 
of an amendment to this Agreement, and the 
TELCOR Implementation 
Agreement, full implementation of Parts A, B and C of 
the Project; 
and  
(d)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause TELCOR to operate the Rural 
Telecommunications Fund and to finance Rural Telecommunications Subprojects in 
accordance with an operational manual, satisfactory to the Association (the 
Operational Manual), said Manual to include, inter alia: 
(i)
the procedures for implementation, monitoring and evaluation of 
Rural 
Telecommunications Subprojects;  
(ii)
the procedures for the selection of Eligible Enterprises, 
including the 
procurement requirements set forth in Section 
I, Part C.4, of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and
(iii)
the environmental safeguards of Rural Telecommunications 
Subprojects.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause TELCOR: 
Page  6
(a)
not later than December 31, 2000, to furnish to the Association for its 
approval, the staff recruitment and training plan (the TELCOR Staff Development Plan) 
to be carried out under Part A.2 of the Project; and  
(b)
thereafter, carry out such plan taking into account the comments, if any, 
made by the Association thereon. 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than August 31, 2000, submit to its 
National Assembly a draft law, satisfactory to the Association, to promote private 
investment in the sector and  to strengthen the operational autonomy of TELCOR. 
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
Page  7
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
September 30, 2000 or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
TELCOR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
TELCOR Implementation Agreement. 
(b)
The Enabling Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of TELCOR or 
ENITEL to perform any of their respective obligations under the TELCOR Implementation 
Agreement or the ENITEL Implementation Agreement. 
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of TELCOR or for the suspension of 
its operations. 
(d)
ENITEL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
ENITEL Implementation Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event are specified: 
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Page  8
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower shall have implemented the Procurement Management Action 
Plan; 
(b)
the TELCOR Implementation Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and TELCOR; and 
(c)
the ENITEL Implementation Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and ENITEL.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the TELCOR Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and TELCOR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
TELCOR in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the ENITEL Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and ENITEL and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
ENITEL in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date March 15, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Telex:
2410
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  9
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Managua, Nicaragua, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Esteban Duque Estrada  
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ulrich Lachler  
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   5,620,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures 
(2)
Consultants’ Services
   2,220,000
100%
(3)
Training
     540,000
100%
(4)
Goods, Works and
     730,000
100% of the amount
Consultants’ Services under
specified in each
Rural Telecommunications
Subproject Agreement
Subprojects
(5)
Operating Costs
     340,000
90%
(6)
Refunding of Project
   1,450,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02. (b) of
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
     700,000
TOTAL
  11,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  10
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term “Training” means the cost of tuition fees, study tours, travel 
and per-diem of trainers and trainees, training materials, rental of facilities and 
equipment and other costs related to training to be carried out under the Project; and  
(d)
the term “Operating Costs” means the cost of operation and maintenance of 
computers, office and audiovisual equipment, and vehicles of the PCU, office supplies 
and other incremental costs of the PCU related to the administration of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR1,160,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after August 23, 1999; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures for:
(i)
Rural Telecommunications Subprojects until:  
(A)
the Rural Telecommunications Fund has been established in 
form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;  
(B)
the Operational Manual shall have been adopted; and  
(C)
the respective Subproject Agreement has been signed by the 
parties thereto; 
and 
(ii)
Part A.2 of the Project unless the Association shall have approved 
the TELCOR 
Staff Development Plan.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures for:  
(a)
goods and services under contracts in respect of which prior review is 
not required in accordance with the provisions of Parts D.2 of Sections I and II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and  
(b)
training and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
Page  11
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account; and 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Page  12
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,180,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the Borrower’s policies and 
regulatory framework of the telecommunications sector; and (b) to improve access to 
Page  13
telecommunications services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening of TELCOR
Provision of technical assistance and equipment as required for:   
(a)
the development of a policy to attract private investment in the 
telecommunications sector. 
(b)
the preparation of a schedule of specific commitments, including the 
Reference Paper, relating to the Fourth Protocol to the General Agreement on Trade and 
Services of WTO and a list of most favored nations exemptions under article II of such 
Protocol  and drafting of amendments to the legislation, as needed; 
(c)
the drafting of legislation as needed to strengthen the operational 
autonomy of TELCOR; and 
(d)
the drafting of telecommunications regulations on tariffs, 
interconnection agreements, model licenses, selected technical aspects of the delivery 
of telecommunications services, and other technical subjects as the Association may 
agree. Implementation of the TELCOR Staff Development Plan.  
Part B:
Radio Spectrum Management System 
Provision of the technical assistance to assess the needs, develop the tenders, 
and evaluate the offers for a new radio spectrum management system, acquisition of 
such system, and training of TELCOR’s staff on the operation thereof.
Part C:
Rural Telecommunication Development
Provision of technical assistance for: 
(a)
the preparation of a rural telecommunication strategy; 
(b)
the carrying out of a study on the demand for rural telecommunications 
services in the Borrower’s territory; and 
(c) 
the assessment of the economic feasibility of providing such services, 
and preparation of the Operational Manual.  
2.
Financing of Rural Telecommunications Subprojects.
Part D:
ENITEL Privatization 
1.
Provision of technical assistance for the privatization of ENITEL. 
2.
Design and implementation of a public communications campaign on the 
privatization of ENITEL.
Part E:
Year 2000 Technology
Provision of computer hardware and software to upgrade ENITEL’s data and 
telecommunications systems to enable the operation thereof after January 1, 2000. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works and Selection of Eligible Enterprises
Page  14
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I, and Section III.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $550,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, the 
Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Association. 
2.
Shopping 
Goods for Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent 
per contract, and other goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods for Part E of the Project which should be procured as an extension of an 
existing contract or which must be purchased from the original supplier to be 
compatible with existing equipment and not exceeding in the aggregate $3,700,000 
equivalent may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Selection of Eligible Enterprises and Procurement of Goods and Works under Rural 
Telecommunications Subprojects 
(a)
Eligible Enterprises shall be selected on the basis of international 
competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of Section II, 
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3.13 (a) 
thereof. 
(b)
Goods and works required for the carrying out of Rural Telecommunications 
Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with the applicable procedures of the 
respective Eligible Enterprise.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
Page  15
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and selection of Eligible Enterprises shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: 
(a)
each contract for goods and Eligible Enterprises procured or selected 
pursuant to Parts B.1 and C.4 hereof, and the first three contracts procured pursuant 
to C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply; and
(b)
the first three contracts procured pursuant to Part C.3 hereof, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and 
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for consulting firms, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the Project audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Page  16
Services for Part D.1 of the Project may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants 
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and not exceeding in the aggregate $1,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Services under Rural Telecommunications Subprojects
Services required for the carrying out of Rural Telecommunications Subprojects 
shall be procured in accordance with the applicable procedures of the respective 
Eligible Enterprise.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and for auditing  services, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1,2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
(d)
With respect to each contract for consultants services irrespective of 
amount, the terms of reference shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set 
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
procurement of goods referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule: 
1.
Bidders shall not be required to register as a condition for bidding. 
2.
The submission of a single bid shall not be a sufficient reason to cancel the 
Page  17
bidding process. 
3.
The content of the bids and the evaluation report thereof shall remain 
confidential with respect to those not involved in the evaluation process until the 
award of the bid is made.
