Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4078-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
November 1, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:        Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 = Cr$127.80 (December 31, 1981)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ABDE              Associa,ao Brasileira de Bancos de Desenvolvimento
(Brazilian Association of Development Banks)
BACEN             Banco Central do Brasil (Central Bank of Brazil)
BB                Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil),
BEFIEX            Comissao para Concessao de Beneficios Fiscais a Programas
Especiais de Exporta,cao (Special Program of Fiscal
Incentives for Exporters)
BNDES             Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(National Development Bank)
BNDESPAR          BNDES Participa,coes S.A. (BNDES Equity Participations)
BNH               Banco Nacional de Habita,cao (National Housing Bank)
CACEX             Carteira de Comercio Exterior (Foreign Trade Department,
Bank of Brazil)
CDI               Conselho de Desenvolvimento Industrial (Industrial
Development Council) /
CEBRAE            Centro Brasileiro do Apoio a Pequena E Media Empresa
(Brazilian Center to Support Small and Medium Enterprise)
CEF               Caixa Economica Federal (Federal Economic Fund)
CEME              Central de Medicamentos (Center for Production of Medicines)
CONSERVE          Programa de Conservagao de Energia no Setor Industrial
(Program for Energy Conservation in the Industrial Sector)
EMBRAMEC          Mecanica Brasileira S.A. (Capital Goods Financing Company)
FGTS              Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servico (Time of Service
Guarantee Fund)
FIBASE            Insumos Basicos S.A. Financiamento a Participagoes (Basic
Inputs Financing Company)
(Basic Inputs Financing Company)
FINAME            Agencia Especial de Financiamiento Industrial (Special
Agency for Industrial Financing)
FINEX             Fundo de Financiamento a Exporta,cao (Export Financing Fund)
IBRASA            Investimentos Brasileiros S.A. (Brazilian Investment
Company)
IOF               Imposto Sobre Operac,oes Financeiras (Tax on Financial
Operations)
LTN               Letras de Tesouro Nacional (Treasury Bills)
ORTN              Obriga,coes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional (Obligations of
the National Treasury)
PASEP             Programa de Formagao do Servidor Publico (Public Employees
Financial Reserve Fund)
PIS               Programa de Integragao Social (Program of Social
Integration)
SEPLAN            Secretaria de Planejamento (Planning Department)
SUDAM             Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Amaz'onia (The
Superintendency for the Development of the Amazon Region)
SUDENE            Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (The
Superintendency for Development of the Northeast)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . .                       1 . . . . . .  I
A.  Manufacturing Production and Export Performance. . . . .         1
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Structure of Manufacturing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
Manufactured Exports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
Employment and Productivity.  . . . . . . . . . . . .           3
Industrial Location.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           3
B.  Trade Policy, Protection and Competitiveness of Brazilian
Industry   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
Recent Policy Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
Export Incentives and Protection . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
Main Policy Issues and Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . .        5
II.  THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM ................... .                           7
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        7
Development of the Financial System.  . . . . . . . . . .            8
Structure of the Financial System.  . . . . . . . . . . .           9
The Capital Markets and Other Sources of Finance . . . . . .    11
Industrial Corporate Finance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Small and Medium Size Enterprise Finance . . . . . . . . . .    14
Industrial Financing Outlook . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   -    15
III.  THE NATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (BNDES)   16
A.  The BNDES System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Introduction ....  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    16
Objectives . . . . . . .                                       16
Development of Operations.                                     17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in May/June 1982. The mission comprised Messrs. X. Simon and
H.A. Jones of the Industrial Development and Finance Division, LAC Regional
Office. Messrs. M. Penalver and M. Reyes of the same Division and
Mr. F. Veneroso (consultant) also contributed to the preparation of this
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



= it 
Page No.
Organization . .  ,        *  e . . . .  .  . , . . a a . .    17
Staffing   .       . *   e . , , .      e . ...a a.                 18
Budgeting. . , . . . . . . . a . . . . . , , , , . a , ,    20
Operations , . *  . . . . *, . . a a . . . . * . . . *              21
Operating Procedures.. a..                    . . .    .     .      23
Resources and Financial Performance.. .  . . a   . a . . .    23
Audit.  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
B.  BNDES' Area of Operations with Agents. . . . . . . . . .    28
Organization, Management and Staff . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Programs and Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
Appraisal and Supervision. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Procurement and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
IV.  THE STATE AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS AND INVESTMENT BANKS   33
A.  The State and Regional Development Banks . . . . . . . .    33
Organization, Management and Staffing. . . . . . . . . .    33
Appraisal, Supervision, and Audit. . .  . . .   . . . . .    34
Operations.          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .    35
Resources and Financial Position . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
The Development Banking Association.  . . . . . a . . a .    38
AP-III Plan of Action for Upgrading the Development Banks   39
B.  Investment Banks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
V.  THE PROJECT AND LOAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .              41
A. The Project.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
Demand for Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
Previous Bank Operations with BNDES. . . . . . . . . . .    41
B.  The Proposed Loan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
Borrower, Executing Agency and Onlending Terms . . . . .    42
Amount of Loan, Counterpart and Cofinancing. . . . . . .    43
Financial Intermediaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
Beneficiaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
Loan Repayment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
Subloan Approval Procedures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
Procurement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    46
Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    47
C.  Project Benefits and Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    48
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . .                             48



- iii -
ANNEXES
Annex 1   BNDES Organizational Chart
Annex 2   Description of Principal Operations of BNDES Projects Area III
Annex 3   State and Regional Development Banks: Year Established, Staff and
Ownership and Development Departments of the State Commercial Banks
Staff as of December 31, 1981
Annex 4   Formula for Adjusting ORTN Index
Annex 5   T-1   Selected Financial Assets - Financial System and Treasury
Issues
T-2   Loans to the Private Sector by Final Lender
T-3   Summary of Statistics of BNDES Operations 1975-1981
T-4   BNDE3 System, Cash Flow
T-5   BNDES Balance Sheets (excluding PIS/PASEP), December 31, 1977
to 1981
T-6   BNDES Income Statements, 1978 to 1981
T-7   BNDES Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1976 to 1981 in
millions of current cruzeiros
T-8   BNDES Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1976 to 1981 in
millions of December 31, 1981 cruzeiros
T-9   BNDES AP-III Operating Statistics, 1976 to 1981
T-10 State Development Banks Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 1974 to 1981
T-11 State Development Banks Consolidated Income and Expense
Statements for the years 1974 to 1981
T-12 State Development Banks Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1981
T-13 State Development Banks Income and Expense Statements for the
year 1981
T-14 State Development Banks Analysis of 1981 Financial Operations
T-15 Regional Development Banks and State Banks with Development
Portfolio Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1981
T-16 Regional Development Banks and State Banks with Development
Portfolio Income and Expense Statement for 1981
T-17 Development Portfolio of State Banks Balance Sheet as of
December 31, 1981
T-18 Development Portfolio of State Banks Income and Expense
Statements for 1981
T-19 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 6   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP






I. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR 1/
A. Manufacturing Production and Export Performance
Introduction
1.01      Brazilian industrialization started in the last decade of the
nineteenth century, mainly in the Sao Paulo area. As early as 1920, Brazil
already had a well established industrial sector and had achieved consider-
able import substitution in industrial products, with an import ratio of 36%
of total supply. Further growth during the 1930s led to a drop in the import
ratio to 20% by 1939. By that time most consumer goods subsectors had import
ratios below 10%. In the two decades following World War II, Brazil expe-
rienced another substantial stage of import-substituting industrialization.
From 1945 to 1962 industry grew at an average rate of 8% p.a., fueled by
large inflows of direct foreign investment (particularly from 1956 to 1961)
and by public sector investment in manufacturing. During this period, total
commodity exports increased by only 1.3% p.a., and manufactured exports were
less than 5% of total exports by 1964. The inward-oriented development of
the 1950s and early 1960s resulted in the apparent paradox of a heavy depen-
dence of the Brazilian economy on the small foreign sector, through the high
level of external indebtedness and heavy debt service obligations.
1.02      The economic policies applied between 1964 and 1967 were directed
to correct the disequilibria that had developed during the previous years,
and laid the foundations for the rapid growth of the 1967-1973 period.
During this latter period, manufactured output grew at an unprecedented rate
of 12.9% p.a. and manufactured exports grew at an average of 36% p.a.. The
opening up of the economy was also reflected in the import ratio for manufac-
turing, which increased from an all-time low of 6% in 1964 to 10.3% in 1971.
1.03      In the years following the oil crisis, and until 1980, the economy
continued to experience rapid growth, although at reduced rates. Between
1974 and 1980, manufactured output grew at an annual rate of 6.8% and manu-
factured exports continued to increase at nearly 26% p.a. (in current US$
terms). The new element in the industrial policy followed after 1974 was a
renewed emphasis on import-substituting industrialization, mainly of capital
goods and intermediate industrial products. The Second National Development
Plan (1975-79) called for large investments in pulp and non-ferrous metals,
with the objective of reaching or approaching self-sufficiency by the end of
1979. Although many of the related public sector investment programs were
subsequently curtailed, the effect of this import-substitution policy was
partly reflected in a decrease in the import ratio, from 10.3% in 1971 (and
11.9% in 1974) to 6.8% in 1979.
I/   A more detailed review of the structure and policy framework of Brazil's
industrial sector is contained in the report "Brazil: Industrial
Policies and Manufactured Exports" Report No. 3766-BR of July 2, 1982,
on which this chapter is based.



-2-
Structure of Manufacturing
1.04      In 1979, manufacturing accounted for 28% of GDP, up from 26% in
1960, and the overall industrial sector accounted for 38% of GDP. These are
very high figures for developing and industrialized countries alike, reflect-
ing a very advanced stage of industrialization of the economy. Brazil's
share of manufacturing in GDP is only exceeded by 5 and equalled by 2 of the
76 developing countries for which data are presented in the 1981 World
Development Report. Even more noticeable, only 4 of the 18 industrialized
countries exceed Brazil's share of manufacturing in GDP.
1.05      The structure of Brazilian manufacturing has experienced a substan-
tial change during the last two decades. The share of traditional industries
(food, beverages, tobacco, textiles, garments, footwear, furniture and print-
ing) accounts for only 34.5% of manufacturing value added, down from nearly
50% in 1962. This change is explained almost completely by variations in the
shares of only four industries: metallurgy and chemical industries which
increased (from 20 to 34% of the total) and textiles and food industries
which fell (from 34 to 21%).
1.06      Total investment in manufacturing increased nearly four times
between 1970 and 1979, growing at an average annual rate of about 15.5%
in real terms. The distribution of investment by industries has been highly
concentrated in a small number of subsectors. The share of investment in
metallurgy, transport equipment and chemical products amounted to 47% of the
total in 1969, and 63.5% in 1979. The fastest growth took place in metal-
lurgy, whose share increased from 10% of industrial investment in 1969 to 30%
in 1979. The structure of ownership has also changed, with an increase in
the share of equity of government firms from 18.5% in 1971 to 22.5% in 1979,
and of domestic private firms from 47% to 55%, while the share of foreign
firms fell from 34.5% to 22.5%. During the 1970s, the government made signi-
ficant investments in manufacturing, mainly to support the strategy of import
substitution in heavy capital goods and basic industrial inputs.
Manufactured Exports
1.07      Industrial exports (including semi-manufactures) increased enor-
mously during the last fifteen years, from US$284 million in 1965 to US$14.0
billion in 1981. During this period, their share in the country's total
exports increased from 18% to 60%. A major feature of Brazil's manufactured
export performance has been a process of product and market diversification.
Thus from 1970 to 1979, the share of the main processed agricultural products
(oils and fats, grain products and other food products) fell from nearly 60%
to about 34% of the total. At the same time exports of motor vehicles, iron
and steel, textile products and footwear increased from 8% to 20% of the
total. In contrast to other industrializing countries, Brazil has been a
strong exporter to markets in both industrial and developing countries.
The bulk of consumer oriented products are exported to the industrial
countries, while exports of capital goods are concentrated in developing
countries. In 1979, 68% of food, 61% of textile and 98% of footwear exports
went to industrial market economies. On the other hand, 64% of machinery and
equipment exports were directed towards developing countries.



- 3 -
1.08      In spite of very high growth rates and the sizable volume of
exports in many product categories, manufactured exports are still a small
share of manufactured output (8 to 9% depending on which classification is
used). If the food industry is excluded, the share is further reduced to
about 5%. However, the incremental contribution of exports is higher, at
about 12.5% of the increase in output between 1975 and 1979. Industries with
high export ratios include processed food, footwear, transport equipment,
some categories in the non-electrical machinery industry, textiles, clothing
and pulp and paper.
Employment and Productivity
1.09      Employment in the manufacturing sector increased from 8.6% of the
economically active population in 1960, to 15% in 1976. Employment growth in
manufacturing was fastest from 1967 to 1973, at an average rate of 9% p.a.,
dropping to 4% in the period 1973-1980. During these two periods, the corre-
sponding annual growth rates of value added were 13.3% and 6.8% implying an
employment elasticity of 0.68 in the earlier period and 0.59 for the latter.
This indicates that the faster employment generation prior to 1973 was not
only the result of faster industrial growth but also of its more labor-
intensive character. During the second half of the 1970s, the product mix
was increasingly oriented to the more capital-intensive subsectors.
1.10      Real wages in manufacturing grew at an average of 3.2% p.a. in the
period 1968-1980, whereas output per employee grew at a lower rate of 2.8%
p.a. However, most of the difference is accounted for by the faster growth
of real wages in the 1968-1973 period. After 1973, real wages and output per
employee have grown at very similar rates. The structure of industrial wages
shows relatively high dispersion among industries, with the industry paying
the highest average wages (pharmaceutical products) exceeding the industry
with lowest wages (garments) by a ratio of 3 to 1.
Industrial Location
1.11      Industrial activity is highly concentrated in the southeast region,
which accounted for 76% of the country's manufactured value added in 1975.
However, geographical concentration appears to have peaked in 1960 (when the
share of the southeast reached 79%) and has declined afterwards. The ground
lost by the southeast was reflected by increases in the south and center-west
regions. At the same time, the north region increased slightly its share in
manufacturing, but the share of the northeast continued to decrease. Since
the establishment of SUDENE (Superintendency for the Development of the
Northeast) in 1959 and SUDAM (a similar agency for the north region) in 1966,
fiscal and financial incentives have been the main instruments used to stimu-
late the industrialization of these two regions. Although there has been
considerable industrial growth in both regions, their performance relative to
other regions has been disappointing. The share of the northeast in manufac-
turing value added fell from 16.8% in 1960 to 6.6% in 1975, and the share of
the north region increased from 1.1% to 1.2%.



-4-
B. Trade Policy, Protection and Competitiveness of Brazilian Industr
Recent Policy Developments
1.12      Industrial and trade policies since early 1979 have attempted to
liberalize the economy through simultaneous devaluation of the cruzeiro in
real terms, and reductions in import protection and export subsidies. How-
ever, this long-term policy was reversed several times in the face of short
term problems and exogenous shocks. In early 1979, the crawling peg was
accelerated to achieve a real devaluation of 25% in four years, and gradual
reductions in import barriers and export subsidies were planned. The oil
price increases and higher-than-expected inflation made this approach diffi-
cult and in December 1979 the government approved a policy package including
a devaluation of 30%, a one-step elimination of fiscal incentives to exports,
and the establishment of an export tax on major commodities.
1.13      The impact of the December 1979 policy package was largely reversed
during 1980, as the government announced that there would be a devaluation of
40% during the year, irrespective of inflation, and a corresponding ceiling
on monetary correction. With inflation accelerating to more than 100%,
interest rates were strongly negative in real terms and there was a consider-
able appreciation of the cruzeiro. The combination of negative interest
rates, overvaluation of the cruzeiro and fast growth of industry and GDP
(about 8% in real terms) contributed to generate a trade deficit of US$2.8
billion, and a current account deficit of US$12.2 billion.
1.14      Since the beginning of 1981, the government introduced a program
aimed at stabilization in the domestic and external sectors, including a
much tighter control over monetary and credit expansion as well as public
sector expenditures. Also, a more flexible policy of frequent mini-
devaluations reflecting the full extent of domestic inflation, and other
measures to eliminate more structural sources of disequilibria were adopted.
The latter included gradual removal of price controls and reductions in the
surcharge import tax, in import controls and in export credit. Also, the
fiscal subsidy to exports was reintroduced in April 1981. The stabilization
policies were successful in achieving a trade surplus of US$1.2 billion
during 1981, and a moderate reduction in the rate of inflation (still a very
high 95%). However, they did so at the cost of a reduction of about 3% in
GDP and a decrease of about 7% in industrial output.
Export Incentives and Protection
1.15      The Brazilian system of incentives to manufactured exports was
established during the economic liberalization period of 1964-1967 and
reinforced in later years. The tax reform of 1965 replaced the previous
cascading sales tax by two value-added taxes, thus allowing for an effective
exemption on indirect taxes to exports. The tax and duty draw-back systems
were introduced in 1966 and went into operation in 1969. Other main fiscal
incentives to exports include BEFIEX, a system of enterprise-specific export
incentive packages based on long-term export commitments (generally 10
years), and the export tax credit certificate (credito premio). BEFIEX was
established in 1972 and has been used by a small number of large exporters,
mainly in the automotive sector. The credito premio, introduced in 1969, was



- 5 -
eliminated as a general incentive in December 1979 (except for automotive
firms under BEFIEX agreements), and was reintroduced in April 1981. Until
1979, the credito premio rate was related to the value added tax rate for
each product, whereas after 1981 it had a uniform rate of 15% of the FOB
value of exports. Under a GATT agreement, the credito premio is scheduled to
be eliminated on March 31, 1983.
1.16      Several export-financing mechanisms are also in operation.  The
Fund for Export Financing (FINEX), a government fund managed by the Central
Bank and operated by CACEX (the foreign trade department of Banco do Brasil)
provides pre- and post-shipment financing for firms producing capital goods
or other export products with long production periods (18 months or more).
In addition, the Resolution 674 program provides pre-shipment financing on
highly subsidized terms to firms producing a wide range of products for
export. The credit volumes approved under Resolution 674 were US$1.9 billion
in 1979, US$1.8 billion in 1980, and US$2 billion in the first half of 1981.
1.17      Several studies of effective protection in Brazil for the late
1960s and early 1970s found high average nominal and effective rates and a
cascading structure of protection which was highest for consumer goods and
lowest for capital goods. These results are common to countries whose tariff
structure includes higher tariffs for consumer goods than for intermediate
and capital goods, and widespread tariff exemptions for the latter two
categories. However, a recent estimation of nominal and effective protection
to industry, based on direct price comparisons as of late 1980 and early 1981
shows that the traditional cascading structure of protection no longer
appears. The structure of nominal protection rates is now the opposite of
the traditional pattern, with capital goods having the highest protection,
intermediate products very close to the average for manufacturing, and
consumer goods having the lowest rate. The estimates of effective protection
confirm this structure.
1.18      The above estimates support the view that, during the late 1960s
and the 1970s, the fast growth of industry resulted in considerable gains in
the degree of competitiveness of many subsectors. The reversed structure of
protection with respect to the one found in 1967 is also consistent with this
view, as the traditional consumer goods industries showing low protection
have achieved that stage after many years of growth and domestic competition,
whereas the capital goods industries are the more recently established, have
relatively smaller markets, and were initially subject to relatively lower
pressures from domestic competition.  Significantly, exports of capital goods
between 1970 and 1979 increased from US$106 million to US$2.7 billion.
Main Policy Issues and Prospects
1.19      The review of Brazilian trade policy summarized above indicates
that the average levels of protection and export incentives for manufacturing
are moderate, particularly if overvaluation of the exchange rate is taken
into account. In addition, the review of the performance of Brazilian manu-
facturing during the last decade shows high growth of output and an impres-
sive growth of manufactured exports. However, there are several aspects of
the current policy environment that are cause for concern, as they may have
negative effects on growth and resource allocation within and outside the
industrial sector.



- 6 -
1.20      The first area of concern refers to the interrelations between
protection levels, export incentives and exchange rate.  The incentives
required to compensate the overvaluation have a high fiscal cost and may
generate protectionist reactions in importing countries, whereas the protec-
tion measures, mostly non-tariff barriers, do not generate very high fiscal
revenues. A second area of concern refers to the wide dispersion of protec-
tion and export incentive rates among industries, which generate distortions
in the allocation of resources. Finally, the high level of potential protec-
tion resulting from high nominal tariff rates and non-tariff barriers, allows
the subsistence of pockets of inefficiency.
1.21      Brazil's industrial strategy for the next decade and, particularly,
for the next four to five years revolves around the performance of its exter-
nal sector. With manufactured exports accounting already for 60% of total
exports, a high growth rate of the former is a pre-requisite of sustained
growth in the next few years. To encourage the rapid growth of output and
exports in line with Brazil's comparative advantage and resource endowments,
the focus of trade policy during the next four years should center around an
exchange rate policy that would achieve a gradual devaluation of the
cruzeiro in real terms, through an accelerated crawling peg. This should be
accompanied by a realignment of export incentives and protection measures, in
order to reduce their dispersion among sectors, and to reduce their average
levels as the real devaluation is achieved. While the reduction in the
average protection levels should at least equal the real rate of devaluation,
the average export incentive levels should be allowed to increase in net
terms (after adjusting for exchange rate variations) in order to reduce or
eliminate anti-export biases.
1.22      The above measures should be accompanied by a review of the mecha-
nisms and procedures under which the export incentives and protection are
granted, in order to simplify the system and to make it more automatic and
less discriminatory across industries and across firms. Finally, this policy
review should also include a review of several industrial subsectors that
have been the target of special programs since the mid-1970s, to ascertain
the impact of the programs, the competitiveness achieved by these industries
and their prospects in the medium and long term.
1.23      During the discussions of the Bank's Industrial Sector Report (in
May, 1982) the Government expressed agreement with the report's scope and
main recommendations as summarized above.  It was agreed that a joint work
program should be developed to continue the analysis initiated in the Bank's
report, expanding its coverage and further developing its implications for
policy action. The first step in this increased dialogue was a workshop on
export incentives, organized by the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN) with
participation of Bank staff, that took place in June 1982. Other main
elements of the proposed work program would include the establishment of a
trade policy analysis and review unit, probably in SEPLAN, to follow up on
the implications of trade policy changes and their impact on output and
export growth, as well as competitiveness of industrial subsectors. Also,
the Ministry of Industry's Industrial Development Council (CDI) will review
several exporting subsectors (including food, textiles, garments and foot-
wear) in order to design specific subprograms to encourage export growth, and
requested Bank assistance and cooperation in this work. As part of the
project the Government has agreed to carry out, or have BNDES (the National



- 7 -
Development Bank) or other specialized agencies acceptable to the Bank, carry
out studies on industrial sector and trade policy in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and review the results of such studies with
the Bank upoII their completion. The studies would be completed by
December 31, 1984 with the assistance of qualified consultants or insti-
tutions.
1.24      The economic dialogue with the government on industrial and trade
policy is likely to expand and intensify during the next year. The proposed
project with BNDES would provide an appropriate vehicle for continuing this
dialogue. The Government has provided the Bank with a general statement of
its industrial and trade policies and this statement was reviewed during loan
negotiations and found to be acceptable.  Also, the proposed project could
constitute the starting point of an increased program of lending to support
industrial development and increased industrial efficiency in Brazil.
Finally, the Bank is planning to carry out a study of the regional industrial
development of the Northeast, to be completed during FY83. It is expected
that this work would provide the basis for a coordinated program of assis-
tance to this region, possibly including one or several Bank loans.
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Introduction 2/
2.01      The Brazilian financial system is very much the result of a major
reform initiated in 1964. Three key laws and the introduction of monetary
correction and compulsory savings form the basis of this reform. Banking Law
4595/64 created the National Monetary Council with overall responsibility for
monetary policy, and a Central Bank to take over the central banking function
of the Bank of Brazil.  The Bank of Brazil, however, remained within the
Monetary Authorities. Law 4380/64 established the Housing Finance System
headed by the National Housing Bank. Finally, Capital Markets Law 4728/65
defined the functions of existing and new financial institutions, and set the
framework of the present system.
2.02      To encourage financial savings, a range of assets bearing monetary
correction and, hence, theoretically, protected against inflation were intro-
duced. The most important of these are Readjustable Obligations of the
National Treasury (ORTNs), and savings deposits; the latter are currently the
most widely held nonmonetary financial assets, bearing monetary correction
plus 6% per annum interest. Traditional nonindexed financial assets, demand
and time deposits, and bills of exchange continued to coexist with indexed
assets and were joined in 1970 by Treasury Bills (LTNs) of 90-, 180- and
360-day maturity auctioned at competitive discounts. To add to the flow of
investible resources, three compulsory savings funds were introduced: Time
2/    A comprehensive description and analysis of the matter of this intro-
duction and the section on the Monetary Authority (paras. 2.06 and
2.07) can be found in Bank Report No. 2790 a, "Brazil, Financial
Systems Review", of November 18, 1980.



- 8 -
of Service Guarantee Fund (FGTS) in 1966, the Program of Social Integration
(PIS), and the Public Employees Financial Reserve Fund (PASEP) in 1970.
Balances with these funds bear monetary correction and interest of 3% per
annum. To promote the formation of risk capital and strengthen the equity
market a range of fiscal incentives was introduced, including provision for
tax deductions to purchase shares in equity-holding "157 or Fiscal Funds.
Development of the Financial System
2.03       The development of the Brazilian financial system since 1965 has
been very significant as shown in Table 2.1. Total financial assets
increased from 24.5% of GNP in 1965 to 48.9% in 1981. The share of non-
monetary assets in total financial assets increased from 13.1% in 1965 to
60.5% in 1981. Within the category of non-monetary assets, savings deposits,
which in 1965 were practically non-existent, now represent 32.6% of the
total, while government bonds and bills (ORTNs and LTNs) have increased from
28.6% in 1965 to 41.0% in 1981, and fixed time deposits decreased from 21.4%
to 19.8% (Annex 5, T-1).
TABLE 2.1: FINANCIAL DEPTH--SELECTED RATIOS
(as percent of GNP)
1965      1978      1979     1980      1981
Money (M1)                     21.3      14.2      14.9      11.7       9.7
Non-Monetary Assets 1/          3.2      29.7      29.4     22.7      29.6
Compulsory Savings             --       10.1      11.4       9.7       9.6
TOTAL Financial Assets        24.5      54.0      55.7      44.1      48.9
1/  Non-Monetary Assets include savings deposits, fixed time deposits,
bills of exchange, housing bonds, and Federal Bonds (ORTNs and LTNs).
Source: Banco Central do Brasil, Monthly Bulletin.
2.04       The change in the structure of Brazilian financial assets and their
growth were to be expected with the introduction of ORTNs, LTNs, and monetary
correction, the creation of the compulsory savings programs, the increasing
sophistication and specialization of the financial sector, and, in general, a
fairly stable monetary policy. The sharp drop in financial assets observed
in 1980 was due to the interest rate and monetary correction policies
followed in late 1979 and during most of 1980. In September, 1979, ceilings
were imposed on interest rates and were maintained through most of 1980
despite an acceleration of inflation.  Also, in early 1980 monetary correc-
tion was prefixed for the entire year in the expectation of declining infla-
tion.  Because inflation instead accelerated, the real interest rate of
monetarily corrected instruments turned sharply negative, thus adversely
affecting the desire for holding financial assets. Compulsory savings, on
the other hand, have continued to decline in 1981 and 1982 because of the



- 9 -
contraction of the economy.  They are based on sales of enterprises, govern-
ment revenue, and payrolls.
Structure of the Financial System
2.05      The financial system can be divided into two broad groups.  The
first consists of four federal institutions often referred to as second tier
financial intermediaries: the Central Bank (BACEN) and the Bank of Brazil
(BB), which together form the Monetary Authority, the National Economic and
Social Development Bank (BNDES), and the National Housing Bank (BNH). These
institutions lend directly, except BACEN, and also pass on funds for relen-
ding to first tier financial intermediaries, namely, commercial, investment,
and state development banks, finance companies (consumer credit), and insti-
tutions of the savings and loan system.
2.06      Monetary Authority.  The monetary authority is composed of BACEN
and BB. BACEN has most of the responsibilities and functions of a central
bank. Its central bank functions are, nevertheless, often overshadowed and
subordinated to other activities it performs as financial agent of the
government. These activities include the supplying of funds for different
government expenses and programs which are not covered through the Federal
budget (such as consumer subsidies and the servicing of the public external
and internal debt), the financing of the agricultural sector through BB, and
also functioning as a second tier bank for resources directed to priority
sectors. The main resources of BACEN are derived from the issuance of
currency, the compulsory reserves of commercial banks, foreign exchange
liabilities, and frozen foreign currency deposits from external financing
contracted by the nonfinancial private sector. BB shares some monetary
authority with BACEN and holds the voluntary reserves of the commercial bank-
ing system. More importantly, BB acts as a window for massive lending
operations of the Monetary Authority. These lending operations are primarily
directed to the agricultural sector (about US$8.2 billion, or 51% of BB loans
outstanding as of December 31, 1981), export promotion, and energy.
2.07      Funds to sustain the massive BB lending program originate from
three main sources. First, as the largest commercial bank in Brazil, BB has
large demand deposits. The ratio of its demand deposits (net of Treasury
deposits) to its lending has fallen considerably throughout the last decade,
however, and on December 31, 1981, was only 14.2%. Second, BB, like other
commercial, investment, and development banks, relends funds originating from
BACEN. Third, and of greatest quantitative importance, resources are
supplied from BACEN through a massive rediscounting facility, the "Conta de
Movimento", which was created to compensate BB for its loss to BACEN, upon
its creation in 1964, of the compulsory reserves of the commercial banking
system. As of December 31, 1981, the Conta de Movimento accounted for 56% of
BB's loans outstanding. The Conta de Movimento adjusts passively to augment
resources of BB as necessary to meet lending targets laid down by the
Monetary Council in the monetary budget. As of December 31, 1981, overall
credits and loans outstanding of the Monetary Authority were about US$23.9
billion, and included US$4.9 billion onlent by the rest of the financial
system from BACEN's funds for priority activities. Although a large propor-
tion of BACEN's funds for special programs are for fixed assets and are
onlent at medium and long terms, small and medium scale enterprise (SME)



- 10 
benefit little from them unless they are investing in the priority activities
for which the funds are intended.
2.08      BNDES.  A Federal government-owned bank, BNDES is the main source
of long term financing for the industrial sector, and practically the only
source of term credit for SME.  It channels resources to industrial firms
either by credit and equity investments carried out directly or through other
financial intermediaries. It also acts as financial agent for some govern-
ment programs, especially in the construction of rural and urban infrastruc-
ture financed in part with foreign loans.  Its main resources come from the
PIS and PASEP compulsory savings funds and from foreign loans. On May 26,
1982, BNDES was given the responsibility of financing social investments in
food, low cost housing, health, education, and small scale agricultural
projects, which will be financed principally with a 0.5% tax on the gross
sales of public and private enterprises and the gross revenue of financial
institutions. The structure and operations of BNDES are more fully described
in Chapter III.
2.09      Commercial Banks.  There are 107 commercial banks of which 81 are
private, 21 are owned by state governments, four by the Federal government,
and one by the National Union of Cooperatives. They concentrate in short-
term credit with resources from demand and time deposits and foreign exchange
liabilities. On a very limited scale, relative to their assets, commercial
banks also act as intermediadiaries for term lending by the second tier
Federal banks. Through reserve and some lending requirements the Monetary
Authority directs some of the lending of commercial banks to priority acti-
vities and regions. Thus, reserve requirements, normally 35%, are only 18%
for banks located in the less developed regions, and up to 0.5% of these
reserves can be diverted to purchase new shares or convertible debentures
issued by SME and another 0.5% for the same instruments issued by commercial
exporting firms. Of their total demand deposits 15% are earmarked for rural
credit and 12% for SME, Because most SME lack the financial sophistication
required to sell shares or issue debentures, very few SME benefit from the
term resources. The 12% of demand deposits earmarked for SME, similarly, are
entirely lent short-term for working capital.  Commercial banks have, never-
theless, been an important channel for medium and long-term financing of
Brazilian manufactured equipment; funds for this purpose are made available
by FINAME, a BNDES subsidiary that specializes in such financing. At the end
of 1981, commercial banks' credit to the private sector was some US$27.8
billion, or 29% of the total credit to that sector (Annex 5, T-2).
2.10      Investment Banks.  Like commercial banks,  the 38 investment banks
lend mostly for working capital. However, they play an important role in
assisting clients raise term capital through the placement and underwriting
of corporate debt and equity, a service they provide mainly to the larger and
more sophisticated enterprises, and in channelling term funds, mainly from
BNDES. Their main sources of funds are certificates of deposits, usually of
up to one year maturity, foreign borrowings and BNDES transfers. At the end
of October, 1981, time deposits accounted for 62% of their liabilities,
foreign borrowings 28% and BNDES transfers 10%. The industrial sector is the
main beneficiary of investment bank lending with 53% of their total port-
folio, followed by commerce with 10%.  Investment banks rank third, after BB
and commercial banks, among the financial institutions lending to the private
sector with US$10.8 billion, or 11% of the total at the end of 1981. The
operations of investment banks are more fully described in Chapter IV.



2.11      State Development Banks (SDBs).  SDBs are state government owned
state and regional banks acting, until recently, principally as credit evalu-
ation, contracting and disbursement agencies of the second tier banks for
medium and long term credit to the industrial, service and distribution
sectors. At year end 1981, 62% of their resources were from BACEN, BNDES
system and other second tier institutions.  Foreign borrowings and certifi-
cates of deposit have also become important sources but only for four or five
of the more sophisticated SDBs, These institutions are practically the only
source of term capital for SME and some larger companies. The resources from
certificates of deposit, which are mainly of one year maturity, are used for
working capital loans. Two of the principal objectives of the proposed
project and Bank loan are to help further assure the availability of term
resources required by SDBs to meet the regional demand of SME and some larger
firms for investment capital, and to further strenghthen the institutional
capabilities and financial condition of these institutions. The structure
and operations of SDBs are more fully described in Chapter IV.
The Capital Markets and Other Sources of Finance
2.12      The Growth of Institutional Investors.  Private pension funds have
recently been the most rapidly growing component of the long term capital
market in Brazil. Currently, they have assets of close to US$2 billion,
about US$550 million of which is invested in corporate stocks and deben-
tures. Most large state enterprises now have pension funds, but only a few
private firms have established them. Fiscal funds established under decree
law 157 receive contributions from individuals in lieu of tax payments. They
are now fairly large with assets of about US$1 billion. They are required by
law to invest the majority of their funds in corporate stocks and convertible
debentures, and at year end 1981 held US$825 million of such investments.
Although they are much smaller than the pension funds, they are a bigger
factor in the Brazilian share and debenture market. The tax credits which
flow into these funds are being reduced in the overall effort to eliminate
subsidies. As these funds can be withdrawn after five years, the fiscal
funds are therefore expected to decline in size over the next seven years.
The insurance companies, the investment funds, and the mutual funds are other
institutional investors in the Brazilian market. They have smaller securi-
ties portfolios than the pension funds and the fiscal funds, though their
aggregate assets are growing in real terms. Due to the emergence of the
pension funds in recent years, the real growth of the total assets of these
five institutional investors taken in the aggregate has been significant.
Net real expansion will probably conitinue, although at much lower rates, due
to the future decline of the fiscal funds.



12 -
Table 2.2:  INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS, DECEMBER 1981
INVESTMENTS IN SECURITIES
(in billions of Cruzeiros)
Shares and   Government   Time         Other          Total
Debentures   Securities   Deposits  Securities   Portfolio
Pension Funds           70.8          74.8          49.3        20.9         215.8
Fiscal Funds           105.5          11.0            -           -          116.5
Insurance Cos.
(est.)                26.4          29.6          9.9         2.6           68.5
Mutual Funds             6,4            0.5          0.5         0.1           7.5
Investment Funds         2.4           0.3                        -            2.7
Source:  Banco Central do Brasil and Bank staff estimates for insurance
companies.
2.13      The Corporate Debentures Market.  Though the indexed corporate
debenture was introduced more than a decade ago, it was never an important
capital market instrument. Now, owing to severe bank credit limits and wide
spreads in the banking system, corporate debentures have begun to expand
rapidly. In 1981 aggregate corporate debenture issues were some US$1.7
billion. These debentures carry full monetary correction, and a 12% coupon;
with discounts, additional fees, and charges they bear effective real posi-
tive rates as high as 18%. A portion are convertible into common stock. The
stated maturity of these debentures is usually 3-5 years. Initially they
were bought primarily by long term institutional investors. However, by the
second half of 1981, the majority of new debentures were being placed with
commercial and investment banks, and debentures became increasingly a device
for banks to evade credit limits and the tax on financial operations (IOF).
Because commercial and investment banks raise funds with 1-year Certificates
of Deposit, they have sought shorter maturity debentures; this has been
achieved by making debentures callable by either the issuer or the buyer
after one year, effectively reducing their maturities.
2014       Leasing.  Leasing companies have expanded in real terms at a very
rapid rate since the mid-seventies. Leasing companies can depreciate equip-
ment more rapidly than non-financial firms, providing equipment leasing with
tax advantages over straight corporate debt financing of equipment pur-
chases. Further changes in tax legislation in 1978 favored the growth of
leasing. The leasing companies lease a broad range of equipment, but are not
allowed to lease buildings through purchase and lease back arrangements. The
majority of their funding is in US dollars. They have some fixed rate
cruzeiro liabilities and some indexed cruzeiro financing. The bulk of the
latter is obtained on the domestic debenture market and in 1981 leasing



- 13 -
companies accounted for approximately one-fifth of aggregate corporate deben-
ture issues.  In that year the combined assets of leasing companies was some
US$2.3 billion of which about US$1.6 billion were applied to leasing oper-
ations.
2.15      The Inter-Company Parallel Market.  In response to restrictive
credit limits, there has developed a large volume of non-negotiable
inter-company borrowings. As an organized commercial paper market it is not
allowed by law in Brazil, and until recently this market remained informal
and lacked visibility. Reportedly, it is dominated by large corporations,
principally multinationals. BACEN apparently has estimates of its size and
it is said that it may be 3-4 times as large as the indexed debenture
market. Earlier this year BACEN stepped in with certain requirements aimed
at regulating this market.
2.16      Foreign Borrowings.  Credit ceilings and high interest rates on
domestic currency borrowings have been imposed to encourage foreign borrowing
by Brazilian firms. As a consequence, foreign lending to state and private
enterprises has continued to grow. Traditional Resolution 63 credits
(channeled through the commercial banks, investment banks, and the Bank of
Brazil) and Resolution 4131 credits (borrowed directly from foreign lenders)
have been important; at year end 1981 they had reached US$13.5 billion and
US$31.5 billion, respectively. Recently, more direct foreign borrowings have
reached smaller enterprises than has heretofore been the case, but usually as
short-term loans for working capital.
Industrial Corporate Finance
2.17      Corporate balance sheets of industrial firms in Brazil shows a
deterioration of their financial position. From 1974-80 debt to equity
ratios have increased, indicating a growing reliance on debt. In conjunction
with rising interest rates, the ratio of financial charges to gross corporate
income has risen markedly.  The liquidity position shows a comparable deter-
ioration.  Not only has the overall debt to equity ratio increased; the share
of short-term debt in total debt has risen.  As a consequence, a signifi-
cantly higher proportion of total corporate assets was financed with short
term debt in 1980 than was the case in 1974.  At the same time, gross cor-
porate liquidity has declined: current assets as a share of total assets
have fallen during this period. Due to these factors there has been a
substantial deterioration in the current ratio of Brazilian firms.
2.18      In general, over this period, the corporate profit rate has been
high. It was especially so in 1980, and the very high profits in that year
may explain how industrial firms have been able to weather high real interest
rates in the face of deep recession over the past year. No data on the
financial position of Brazil's enterprises at year end 1981 are yet avail-
able. However, judging from macro financial change it is likely that indebt-
edness has risen and average debt maturities have shortened. Overall, one
would expect further deterioration in financial ratios. There are no good
data on the financial positions of small firms. From the scant evidence
available, it appears that small firms are somewhat more leveraged than large
ones.



- 14 -
Table 2,3: CORPORATE BALANCE SHEET PROFILES
ALL CORPORATIONS
(in percents)
1974      1976       1978       1980
Total Assets:                       100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Current Assets                     33.3       34.7       26.1       28.4
Fixed and Long Term Assets         66.7       65.3       73.9       71.6
Total  Liabilities:                 100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Debt:                               48.9       51.6      47.6       52.3
of which:
Short Term                       19.9       22.5       19.4       24.0
Long Term                        28.9       29.1       28.2       28.3
Equity                               51.1       48.4       52.4      47.7
2.19      From a macro perspective, over all, the ratio of domestic currency
financial assets to GNP has been declining in Brazil since the mid-1970i.
However, the foreign indebtedness of Brazil's enterprises has been on the
rise, and in the aggregate the ratio of total financial claims--both foreign
and domestic--to GNP is higher now than it was a decade ago. This pattern of
financial deepening would tend to confirm the picture of rising indebtedness
obtained from a review of corporate balance sheets. The main thrust of macro
financial change also points to declining corporate liquidity. The lending
of BNDES--the principal source of long term cruzeiro credit in Brazil--has
been reduced and this has not been made up by the emergence of a meaningful
debenture market. At the same time, domestic and foreign interest rates have
been on the rise. Overall, a macro perspective confirms the picture of
rising interest charges, shortening maturities, and deteriorating financial
ratios suggested by an analysis of corporate statements. The rapid growth of
leasing companies in Brazil may be distorting somewhat the debt/equity ratios
of Brazilian firms. Leasing provides firms with credit that appears as a
contingent liability rather than as a debt on the balance sheet. The intro-
duction of leasing may have made firms more leveraged than they appear to be.
Small and Medium Size Enterprise Finance
2.20      In general, recent changes in the financial market in Brazil have
been adverse for industrial enterprises. The impact on small and medium
scale firms appears to have been especially severe. New developments in the
market for long term cruzeiro finance--the rise of private pension funds and
a debenture market--have provided medium term cruzeiro financing only to the
large firms which can tap this market. Long term foreign finance under
Resolution 4131 has been available principally to large firms. Long term
foreign credit is passed on by investment banks under Resolution 63 to small
and medium scale enterprises, but they provide it at (or close to) the
minimum maturity of three months. Furthermore, it appears that the state
enterprises have been aggressively borrowing Resolution 63 funds, possibly
crowding out small and medium scale firms.



- 15 -
2.21      Lastly, the severe credit limits on bank lending may be squeezing
small and medium scale firms from this market.  Since bank loan rates are
free, price rather than quantity rationing should prevail in this market, but
it is primarily in the case of the latter that small firms are unable to
borrow. With real interest rates so high, creditworthiness risk is no doubt
great, and banks may feel that certain classes of borrowers are not qualified
to borrow even if they are willing to pay the rate needed to bid for funds.
Under such conditions, creditworthiness criteria could lead to a discrimina-
tion against smaller firms, as they are presumably more prone to debt
default. The one bright spot in the whole picture are the leasing firms:
the average size of their loan operations is rather small, and they have been
an expanding source of term credit for small and medium scale enterprises in
recent years.
Industrial Financing--Outlook
2.22      For the many reasons cited above, there is a crisis in the market
for industrial financing in Brazil today. In real terms the supply of
domestic cruzeiro finance has been declining. Maturities have shortened, and
interest rates are now as high or higher than the returns to the assets they
finance. In general, firms in Brazil appear to be borrowing primarily to
stay afloat under the current difficult economic and financial conditions.
Small and medium scale firms appear to be in especially severe straits. The
new debenture market has only partially offset contractions in domestic bank
and BNDES lending, and it is unlikely to provide the long term finance that
will be needed in the immediate future. Due to manipulation of the monetary
correction index between 1979-1980, full indexation of long term debentures
is now less appealing to savers than it might otherwise have been, and this
is limiting indexed debentures to fairly short maturities. Also, the extreme
variability of real interest rates has made prospective buyers of debentures
wary about committing themselves to a fixed real rate over monetary
correction.
2.23      Dollar financing, of course, constitutes an alternative source of
long term credit to industry in Brazil today. There is a minimum maturity of
8-1/2 years on all dollar loans to Brazilian enterprises. Such long term
dollar credit channeled by banks under Resolution 63 is always relent at
close to the minimum allowed maturity of three months. However, dollar loans
under the 4131 program reflects this minimum maturity of 8-1/2 years. To
some extent, such dollar lending trickles down to small firms through the
leasing companies. Because of high real dollar rates, high speads over
LIBOR, and taxes on foreign borrowings, this long term credit is quite
expensive. Perhaps more importantly, with the current wide spread between
the curb and official exchange rates, it would seem that there is a
significant perceived devaluation risk. As a consequence, the availability
of long term dollar credits constitutes no substitute for the curtailment of
long term cruzeiro credit from BNDES.
2.24      Under current conditions, there is an extreme need for long term
debt and equity finance by Brazilian industrial firms, Brazilian firms
currently need new sources of finance to strengthen their financial
positions: equity finance is needed because balance sheets have become more
leveraged; long term finance is needed to refinance excessive short term
borrowings and reduce current debt service obligations; and domestic cruzeiro



- 16 -
finance is needed because the financial position of many firms is further
endangered by rising exposure to devaluation. In sum, Brazilian firms need
alternative sources of finance to improve their liquidity position and
undertake new capital investments. The proposed Bank loan to BNDES would
help meet this need, especially for SME since their plight is most severe and
they have very limited access to the new debentures market, which in any case
does not offer sufficiently long terms for the financing of capital
investments.
III. THE NATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPM{ENT (BNDES)
A. The BNDES System
Introduction
3.01      The BNDES System is one of the principal agents of investment
policy of the Government of Brazil. The system comprises BNDES and its two
subsidiaries, FINAME, and BNDESPAR. 3/ Because of its size and the complex-
ity of its operations, the appraisal was limited to an assessment of its
general financial position and of the operating and technical capability of
the BNDES Department which will be responsible for carrying out the project.
BNDES was established in 1952 to supply resources for priority undertakings
for national development, to stimulate private national initiatives and also
provide support for priority investments undertaken by the public sector. It
operates mainly by providing finance for establishing, expanding and modern-
izing productive units through the formation of fixed capital. FINAME
finances the acquisition of machinery and equipment fabricated in Brazil.
BNDESPAR specializes in supporting the capitalization of Brazilian enter-
prise, principally through equity participations and the financing of share-
holders to subscribe for capital issues of enterprises.
Objectives
3.02      The BNDES System has three basic objectives:  promotion of the
economic and social development process; reduction of regional imbalances;
and the strengthening of private national enterprises. In its financial
operations it seeks to allocate resources so as to maximize their impact on
the growth of production and employment. In order to reduce regional
disparities it gives preference to investments in less developed regions and
supports the expansion of production of essential goods and services. The
BNDES System also attempts to contribute to the improvement of the balance of
payments through its support for programs of import substitution and
production for export, as well as energy programs, (e.g. Proalcool).
3/   Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico e Social (BNDES), Agencia
Especial de Financiamento Industrial (FINAME), and BNDES Participaciones
S.A. (BNDESPAR). BNDESPAR was created in June 1982 through the merger
of three BNDES subsidiaries which had essentially the same functions and
objectives but that specialized by subsector. These were Mecanica
Brasileira S.A. (EMBRAMIEC), Insumos Basicos S.A. (FIBASE), and
Investimentos Braseleiros S.A. (IBRASA).



- 17 -
Development of Operations
3.03      BNDES initiated its activities by supporting energy programs
oriented to the use of the hydroelectric potential of the country. In this
initial phase it also emphasized the modernization of the railway system.
Subsequently it concentrated its efforts on the development of basic
industry, especially steel.  During the 1960s it supported efforts to divers-
ify the industrial base and the advancement of industrial technology. In
recent years, in response to the changes required by the petroleum crisis,
BNDES oriented its efforts toward import substitution, especially of basic
inputs and capital goods. In this phase, with the strengthening of FINAME
and the creation of the subsidiaries recently merged into BNDESPAR, it
expanded its range of operations.   Beginning in 1979, BNDES increased its
support for developments in the energy, agriculture and infrastructure
sectors while maintaining its support for basic inputs and capital goods. In
its support for the above mentioned programs, BNDES invested a substantial
share of its resources in the financing of large projects in steel, copper
mining, petrochemicals, hydro-electric power and iron ore. At the same time
the BNDES system has continued its support to small and medium size enter-
prise through its system of financial agents.
Organization
3.04      BNDE as it was known until June 1, 1982, was established in 1952 as
a state autarky under the Minister of Finance. It became a federal public
corporation in 1971 under the Secretariat of Planning until 1979 when it came
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. By Decree
Law 1940 of May 26, 1982, BNDE was renamed BNDES (Banco Nacional do
Desenvolvimento Economico e Social) and was subordinated once again to the
Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency (SEPLAN). The Decree Law also gave
BNDES responsibility for administering a new social fund (FINSOCIAL) to be
used to finance projects in food, low cost housing, health, education and
small scale farming.
3.05      BNDES policy is established by an eleven member council consisting
of the President of BNDES, who is also President of the Council, the
Secretaries General of Finance and of Industry and Commerce and eight members
named by the President of the Republic who serve for three years. BNDES also
has a Fiscal Council consisting of three members named by the President of
the Republic plus three alternates all of whom serve for two years. This
Council examines and gives its opinion concerning the semi-annual financial
statements and exercises the functions (largely supervisory) stipulated in
the Law for Limited Liability Companies.
3.06      BNDES is administered by a Board consisting of the President of the
Bank and eight Directors all named by the President of the Republic. At
least three of the directors must be career officers of the Bank. The
President is named for an indefinite period, the Directors normally for three
years. The President allocates the areas of responsibilities of the
Directors and delegates to then, authority to manage their respective areas.
3.07      The President represents BNDES in legal proceedings, presides over
Board meetings, administers and coordinates the work of the various units of
BNDES, and delegates responsibility for their admiristration to the Directors



- 18 -
of BNDES as he sees fit.  The Directors define, in harmony with the economic
and financial policy of the Federal Government, the lines of action of the
Bank and its operating norms. They approve its administrative budget, its
norms for administering personnel and its internal organization. They also
approve operations above a certain limit, grants for certain types of
research, and investments in shares and fixed assets. They approve the
balance sheets and borrowing contracts of BNDES.
3.08      Day to day management of each of the eleven operating areas is the
responsibility of a superintendent. Under the superintendents there are
Chiefs of Departments, Managers of operating units and technical personnel.
An organization chart down to the level of departments is shown in Annex 1.
3.09      There are two projects areas responsible for direct operations and
they have the following departments:
Projects Area I         . Department of Chemical Industries
. Department of Metallurgy and Mining
. Department of Traditional and Capital
Goods Industries
Projects Area II        . Department of Energy and Alcohol
oDepartment of Agricultural Development
.Department of Infrastructure
Projects Area III is responsible for lending operations through
financial agents (development banks and investment banks). This Area will
manage the proposed project and is more fully described in Part B of this
chapter. Project Area IV (FINSOCIAL) is responsible for lending for social
programs in the following areas: (i) nutrition and food supplement programs
for pre-school and school age children, disadvantaged groups and areas;
(ii) housing and urban infrastructure for the poor; (iii) basic health care
for the poor, pregnant women, babies, etc., and programs for the control of
endemic diseases; (iv) primary education and nursery schools in poor urban
and rural areas; and (v) support for the small farmer in areas of rural
poverty. These programs will be carried out through the National Housing
Bank (BNH), Institutes of Nutrition, Education, Colonization and Agrarian
Reform, etc., and through Government Ministries at the Federal and State
levels.
Staffing
3.10      As of December 31, 1981, the staff of BNDES totalled 1,555 of which
136 worked in Projects Area III which deals with agents. Staff levels at the
end of the last three years are shown in Table 3.1.



- 19 -
Table 3.1: BNDES STAFF
Total BNDES a/       Projects
December 31,        Area III
1979     1980        1981      1981
Executives                           211      242         247        22
Professionals
Lawyers                           70        78          77        16
Accountants                       87        91          85         7
Economists                        89       110         104        14
Engineers                         76       116         107        10
Specialists in
Administration                  35        35          34         2
Other                             52        51          52         2
409      481         459        49
Support Staff                       775       835         849        65
Total                               1395     1558        1555       136
Number of staff Joining              144      300          88
Number of staff leaving               81      137          91
a! In addition there were 499 staff working in the subsidiaries (FINAME 145,
IBRASA 134, FIBASE 112 and EMBRAMEC 108) at the end of 1981.
Source: BNDES
During this period some 532 staff joined BNDE and 309 left. About 70% of
these changes were amongst support staff and the turnover amongst executive
and professional level staff is low. All professional staff and most
executives (about 20% are appointed) are recruited after passing a difficult,
highly competitive examination. Salaries for technical level staff are
attractive and the number of applicants for new posts is large. Salaries for
senior officials of BNDES may not exceed that of the President of the
Republic and this limitation could eventually cause problems in retaining
higher level staff. BNDES has annual training programs for its staff which
are run by the Human Resources section of the Personnel Department. The
programs are established on the basis of recommendations of individual train-
ing needs indentified by the managers of operating units and Department
Chiefs.



- 20 -
Budgeting
3.11      Budgets are prepared annually and on a rolling five year basis for
BNDES and its subsidiaries and revised every six months. Operating budgets
are built up from individual projects. Each project is classified in four
primary and four secondary ways as follows:
Four primary classifications: (a) Operating mode [direct or
indirect (through a financial agent) or via a subsidiary];
(b) Sector; (c) Objective (expansion, restructuring, energy
substitution, etc.); and (d) Geographical area.
Four secondary classifications: (a) Organizational distribution
(by operating area or subsidiary of BNDES); (b) Level of commitment
(whether priority established, under review, approved, contracts
let, etc.); (c) Nature of enterprise (public, private, mixed,
etc.); and (d) Source of financing.
3.12      This classification enables BNDES to adjust its level of operations
fairly rapidly (within limits) to government directives. For example,
disbursement forecasts can be made for projects for which contracts have been
let, for projects approved but for which contracts have not yet been let,
etc., and the reductions can be made project by project based on the avail-
ability of budget resources. Adjustments can also take into account changes
in sectoral priorities, geographical importance and the availability of BNDES
staff to appraise and supervise the work. This rather sophisticated budget
procedure was introduced not only to improve financial and staff resource
planning and control but also to give BNDES greater flexibility in responding
to changes in government investment and financial policy. Since 1981 BNDES'
budgets have not only been subject to the review of the Monetary Council, but
also to the approval of SEST - the Secretariat for the Control of State
Enterprises. BNDES' budgets have been reduced significantly in real terms in
the last two years (1981 and 1982) as part of the Government's general
economic stabilization effort.



- 21 -
Table 3.2: BNDES SYSTEM OPERATIONS APPROVALS
Figures in Cr$ billions
1975     1976      1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Industry
Basic inputs             17.6     40.2      26.4    47.9    63.8   104.2   316.1
Equipment                 4.6      5.4       2.5      3.1      6.4    10.6    13.0
Other                    4.4       8.0       5.2      9.0    20.2    26.2    31.7
26.6     53.6      34.1    60.0    90.4   141.0   360.8
(%)                    (74.3)   (80.9)   (75.1)  (39.2)  (66.5)  (46.1)  (50.4)
Infrastructure
Energy                    1.7      4.3       4.6    57.3    14.1   110.7   208.7
Transportation            2.4      2.2       4.9    28.6    18.6    31.6    81.9
Other                     3.4      4.4       0.2      1.8      1.7    11.4    48.1
7.5     10.9       9.7    87.7    34.4   153.7   338.7
(%)                    (20.9)   (16.5)   (21.4)  (57.1)  (25.3)  (50.2)  (47.3)
Other sectors               1.8       1.7      1.6      5.6    11.2    11.2    16.8
(%)                     (4.8)    (2.6)    (3.5)   (3.7)   (8.2)   (3.7)   (2.3)
35.9     66.2      45.4   153.5   136.0   305.9   716.3
US$ billion equivalent    4.41       6.20      3.21    8.50    5.05    5.80    7.69
Source: BNDES
Operations
3.13      Operations of the BNDES System have varied considerably in recent
years in amount and by sector. Operations approved by sector are summarized
in Table 3.2 for the years 1975 through 1981. The principal sector benefit-
ting from BNDES resources in this period was industry, especially steel and
metallurgy which accounted for 55% of industry operations. Infrastructure
also accounted for a significant share of operations especially in energy in
1978, 1980 and 1981 when BNDES supported large projects such as the Itaipu
Hydroelectric Project and the Proalcool program. BNDES also supported large
investments in transport to modernize the Federal and Paulista railways and



- 22 -
in suburban rail transport, and to finance investments in rural roads, The
percentage allocation of BNDES approvals by Region 4/ is summarized in
Table 3.3.
Table 3*3:  BNDES SYSTEM OPERATIONS BY REGION, APPROVALS
Shares by Region (X)
Region               1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Northern                    0.8       0.9      0.8      1.3      2.5      1.9    14.3
Northeast                  16.3      18.9     10.7    10.1    17.6    17.3    15.5
Southeast                  68.4     60.3      69.0    46.8    57.0    50.7    53.3
South                      12.4      16.6      8.1    41.1    20.1    27.2    13.1
Center-west                 2.1       3.3     11.4      0.7      2.8      2.9     3.8
Total                   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.CI
Source: BNDES
3.14      The Southeast Region and principally the most highly developed
Sao Paulo/Rio de Janeiro area has benefited most from BNDES resources as one
would expect. However, the South has also received a share of BNDES
resources which reflects its importance in the Brazilian economy, and
received significantly more in 1978 to finance Itaipu in Parana state. The
Northeast received less resources than its share on a per capita basis except
for Bahia which got some 47% of the resources allocated to the Region. The
Northern Region also got far less than its share on a strictly per capita
basis except in 1981 when Para received virtually all of the Northern alloca-
tion for a large alumina/aluminum project. Despite its concentration on
large industrial and infrastructure projects, BNDES has to some extent
managed to allocate its resources on a broad geographical basis.
3.15      A large share of the resources of the BNDES system are channelled
through BNDES subsidiaries especially FINAME which finances, through a group
of financial intermediaries, equipment manufactured in Brazil. Approvals and
disbursements of BNDES and its subsidiaries are shown in Annex 5, T-3 as well
as its approvals for the various operating mechanisms used by the BNDES
system for the years 1975 through 1981.
4/  Note:  Northern Region    -        Rondonia, Acre, Amazonas, Roraima, Para, Amapa
Northeast Region   -       Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte,
Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia
Southeast Region   -       Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro,
Sao Paulo
South Region        -      Parana, Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul
Center-west Region -       Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Goias,
Distrito Federal



- 23 -
3.16       In amount most of BNDES operations are direct loans and guaran-
tees.  In number, however, most operations are through financial inter-
mediaries and are managed by Projects Area III (AP-III). BNDES also has
programs to capitalize private national companies by loans to investors,
investment bankers and stockbrokers, and to guarantee subscriptions in shares
or debentures in national enterprises. Finally, it makes investments in
national companies whose stock is traded on the Brazilian stock markets.
FINAME's operations are all made through financial agents (commercial, devel-
opment and investment banks and credit companies). FINAME has three lending
programs: for small scale enterprise, a long-term program for larger firms,
and a special program to finance equipment made to order. The other former
BNDES subsidiaries (recently merged into BNDESPAR), EMBRAMEC, FIBASE, and
IBRASA had mainly direct operations for financing shareholders to capitalize
Brazilian companies, guarantee share and debenture issues and make invest-
ments in Brazilian companies, normally through a minority position in non-
voting shares, with a view to assisting such firms to go public with their
shares.
Operating Procedures
3.17      For its direct loans and investments, BNDES is guided by the
sectoral priorities established by its Planning Department in consultation
with the Government. Projects falling within these sectoral priorities are
carefully analyzed by BNDES technical staff taking into account the organi-
zational and administrative characteristics of the enterprise and the market-
ing, technical and financial aspects of the project to be financed. However,
at the project level, economic rates of return are not normally calculated.
Careful consideration is given to the technology to be employed (including
alternative processes which could be used and the advantages of the selected
technology), pollution control aspects, the scale of production relative to
prospective demand and competition, and the quality and cost of the goods and
services to be financed.  Projects are carefully supervised and disbursements
are made, normally in tranches, subject to satisfactory performance in
executing the project and in satisfying the conditions of the loan. The
subsidiaries follow similar procedures except for FINAME. FINAME finances
domestically fabricated machinery and equipment of approved suppliers through
fi-nancial intermediaries which take the credit risk. FINAME is, therefore,
only interested in assuring that the equipment to be financed has the
required domestic content and the appropriate price.
Resources and Financial Performance
Resources
3.18      Until BNDES was given the responsibility and a new fund for social
programs in May 1982, it financed its operations principally from PIS and
PASEP resources (operations of these funds are described in the Project
File), domestic and foreign borrowings, capital contributions of the Federal
Government, retained earnings, and tied resources supplied by government for
special programs. The social programs (FINSOCIAL) will be financed by a tax
of 0.5% on the gross receipts of public and private companies, financial
institutions and insurance companies, and 5% of the income taxes of public
and private companies supplying services. A statement of Sources and
Applications of Funds for the BNDES System for the years 1979 through 1981



- 24 -
and budgeted figures for 1982 are given in Annex 5, T-4.  A summarized
statement in US$ equivalents is given in Table 3.4. The budget figures for
1982 exclude the new social programs which are expected to amount to some
US$3 billion equivalent for a full year in 1983.
Table 3.4: BNDES SYSTEM SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(US$ billions)
Budget
1979   %   1980   %   1981   %         1982 a/   %
Sources
Internal generation        2.26   45  2.17   49  2.13   50        1.93      46
PIS/PASEP transfers        1.52   30  1.13   26  1.26   30        0.98       23
Loans and grants from
government              0.39    8  0.31    7  0.23    5        -           -
Earmarked funds            0.07    1  0.18    4  0.22    5        0.40       10
External loans             0.77   16  0.60   14  0.40   10        0.89       21
5.01  100  4.39  100  4.24  100        4.20     100
Applications
Disbursements on loans
and investments         4.15   82  3.33   76  3.14   75        3.12       74
Debt service - Local       0.32    6  0.32    8  0.28    6        0.17        4
- Foreign   0.39    8  0.58   13  0.66   16         0.76       18
0.71   14  0.90   21  0.94   22        0.93      22
Administrative
expenses                0.09    2  0.09    2  0.10    2        0.11        3
Other                      0.10    2  0.07    1  0.02    1        0.04        1
5.05  100  4.39  100  4.20  100        4.20     100
Net change in cash           0.04        -           0.04           -
a/ Before allocations and applications for social programs.
Source: BNDES
3.19      BNDES system disbursements on loans and investments declined after
1979 for a number of reasons. PIS/PASEP transfers declined, both because the
growth in contributions levelled off and payments to participants increased.
Internal generation of BNDES funds also declined in 1981 (and is expected to
decline further in 1982) as the Government failed to pay BNDES the full
amount it had undertaken to pay on subsidized loans which BNDES made in 1976
and subsequent years. Also the value of loan repayments declined as the ORTN
index by which principal amounts of such obligations are adjusted was well
below the inflation rate in 1979 and 1980. Finally, BNDES, because of high



- 25 --
interest costs in foreign markets, has been reluctant to borrow abroad and
failed to meet its foreign borrowing target in 1981. Because of these
pressures, and also because of government macroeconomic policy, BNDES reduced
its disbursement budgets in 1981 and 1982 and is currently approving few new
loans and investments in order to dedicate its available resources to
projects approved in the past. At the end of 1981, BNDES capital structure
was as follows, in US$ equivalents:
Table 3.5: BNDES CAPITAL STRUCTURE - December 31, 1981
US$ billions              %
PIS/PASEP funds                                    9.04               54.8
Long-term debt - Foreign                           2.57               15.6
- Domestic                        1.49                 9.0
Other obligations                                 0.26                 1.5
Equity                                             3.12               18.9
16.48              100.0
Source: BNDES
Financial Performance
3.20      BNDES conducts its financial operations at three levels.  It
administers PIS/PASEP resources for a fee of 0.5% p.a. of the value of the
assets administered which is about BNDES cost of administering these
resources. It onlends these resources directly and through financial
intermediaries and advances a portion of these resources to its subsidiaries
to carry on their operations. The PIS/PASEP resources must be invested in
assets yielding at least 3% p.a. and BNDES has invested these funds in assets
yielding from 5.1% to 6.2% p.a. since 1974 when BNDES started administering
the resources of these funds.
3.21      BNDES conducts its own operations (apart from operations it
finances with PIS/PASEP resources) with funds borrowed domestically and
abroad, government contributions for special programs, government capital
contributions arid retained earnings. Since earnings have been small in
recent years, operations have been financed principally with loan repayments,
domestic and foreign borrowings, and earmarked funds contributed by
government.
3.22      In 1978, BNDES earned a return on its average assets of 3.1% (5.2%
on its equity). In 1979 it earned 0.3% on average assets; however BNDES
managed to make this small profit by deferring approximately $500 million of
foreign exchange losses caused by the maxi devaluation in December 1979.
(Foreign exchange adjustments on BNDES foreign obligations were 100.7% rather
than the 39.9% shown as a financial expense in 1979). This loss is being
amortized over the five years 1980-1984, thereby reducing BNDES net profits
in these years. Currently BNDES is continuing to run additional large
foreign exchange losses on its uncovered foreign exchange obligations. All
BNDES local currency loans are indexed to movements of the ORTN which reflect



- 26 -
full domestic inflation.  On the other hand, the rate of devaluation normally
Jags domestic inflation, and thus, the ORTN, by the differential between
Brazilian inflation and that of its trading partners. This lag or margin
historically provided BNDES with some protection against foreign exchange
exposure on uncovered foreign exchange obligations. However, because it has
been Government policy to reduce recent overvaluation of the cruzeiro, over
the past two years devaluationi has been at the level of the full domestic
inflation, thus denying BNDES the otherwise normal margin between ORTN move-
ments and devaluation. In order to eliminate such losses in the future, in
early 1981 BNDES started passing the foreign exchange risk on to its larger
borrowers. However, BIQDES will not be able to complete the process of pass-
ing on the full amount of such risk until 1986 when the subloans denominated
in foreign exchange are fully disbursed. An estimated 40% of the foreign
exchange risk will be covered by the end of 1982. Until early 1986 BNDES
will be exposed to the risk of another maxi devaluation.
3.23       In order to cover its foreign exchange losses in 1980, BNDES also
increased its interest rates on most of its operations. The impact of this
change will be felt over a number of years and this change, and its new
policy of passing on to its customers the risk on its foreign borrowings,
should improve its earnings and financial position over the next few years.
Balance sheets of BNDES for the years ended December 31, 1977 through 1981,
excluding assets and liabilities of PIS/PASEP, are given in Annex 5, T-5c
Income statements of BNDES for the years 1978 through 1981 are given in
Annex 5, T-6. Income and expense ratios on BNDES operations excluding
administered funds are shown in Table 3.6.
3.24      In its lending operations, BNDES denominates most of its loans in
ORTN equivalents and adjusts their cruzeiro value monthly for variations in
the ORTN index. it adjusts its investments in controlled and affiliated
companies to reflect changes in the underlying value of the equity of these
companies and it adjusts its investments in other companies for changes in
the ORTN index. Most of its domestic borrowings are also denominated in ORTN
and it adjusts their values accordingly. At the end of each financial period
it also adjusts its social capital for changes in the ORTN index with a
corresponding charge to earnings so that net earnings for the period are in
real terms (assuming changes in the ORTN index reflect inflation).
3.25      Balance sheets of BNDES which include its operations with PIS/PASEP
resources are showrn in Annex 5, T-7 for the years ended December 31, 1976 to
1981.  Figures in cruzeiros of December 31, 1981, are shown in Annex 5,
T-8.  In the years 1978 through 1981 BNDES made net loans and investments
(after loan repayments and sales of investments) totalling some US$7.4 bil-
lion equivalent. However, between the end of 1977 and 1981 loans and invest-
ments shown in BNDES' balance sheets increased by only 398 billion cruzeiros
(US$3.1 billion equivalent). Thus, principally because of the failure of the
Government to adjust ORTN to fully reflect Brazilian inflation, the value of
the loans and investments made in these four years fell by an estimated 548
billion cruzerios (US$4.3 billion equivalent). The impact of this is already
being felt by BNDES in a lower value of loan repayments which reduces its
capacity to finance its current operations.



- 27 -
Table 3.6: BNDES INCOME AND EXPENSE RATIOS
(EXCLUDING ADMINISTERED FUNDS)
(Percentages of Average Loans, Investments
and Borrowings)
1978    1979    1980    1981
Revenues
Loans - Monetary correction                  35.7    43.1    42.6    81.5
Average yield                        7.6      7.5      6.2      7.5
43.3    50.6    48.8    89.0
Investments - Increase in equity values  42.8    53.3    71.4   115.7
- Average yield                  4.6      0.1      4.1      3.8
47.4    53.4    75.5   119.5
Total yield on loans, investments and
other assets
Monetary correction and increase in
equity values                            35.7    43.4    49.5    91.7
Average yields                              6.3      5.2      5.6      6.3
42.0    48.6    55.1    98.0
Expenses
Long term debt
Domestic - Monetary correction             18.3    31.5    33.4    64.1
Average interest cost           5.6      5.2     5.2      4.5
23.9    36.7    38.6    68.6
Foreign - Exchange rate adjustments    36.6    39.9    52.8    90.8
Average interest cost           11.4    11.6    14.5    16.6
48.0    51.5    67.3   107.4
Monetary correction on social capital    36.2    47.2    50.8    95.6
Total cost of resources
Monetary correction                        30.5    39.5    47.6    86.3
Average interest cost                       4.4      4.9      6.3      7.9
34.9    44.4    53.9    94.2
Financial spread                                 7.1     4.2      1.2      3.8
Administrative and other expenses (net)         4.0      3.9      3.6      3.0
Net income (% yield on average assets)           3.1     0.3    (2.4)a/  0.8
Monetary correction (changes in ORTN Index)36.2    47.2    50.8    95.6
Domestic inflation (changes in IGP)            40.8    77.2   110.2    95.2
a/ Excluding Government contribution of Cr$10 billion (US$190 million
equivalent) to offset losses in 1980.
Source: BNDES



- 28 -
3.26       Another factor which is adversely affecting BNDES capacity for
lending is the large amount due to it from the Government which the
Government has been slow to repay. The obligation is related to BNDES sub-
sidized lending operations from 1976 with limited monetary correction. The
Government was to pay the amount of the subsidy (totalling an estimated
1JS$2.5 billion between 1976 and 1981) according to an agreed schedule.
However, at the end of 1981 the Government owed the BNDES System some US$1.75
billion equivalent of which US$940 million is to be paid in 1982 and the
balance of US$810 million in 1983.   The Government has budgeted only some
US$120 million in 1982 for the payment to be made this year. However, it is
expected that when budget constraints are relieved, such payments will be
increased.
3.27       The share of BNDES loan portfolio affected by arrears has increased
significantly between the end of 1979 and 1981 from 4.5% to 13.5% and overdue
accounts increased from 0.9% to 2.5% of outstanding loans, principally
because of the current recession. BNDES expects this to be a temporary
phenomenon and considers that its provision for bad debts is sufficient to
cover any losses given BNDES policy of requiring real guarantees of at least
130% of the loans it makes. Separate provisions are made for loans made with
PIS/PASEP resources which are not reflected in BNDES accounts.
3.28       Summarized balance sheets and income statements of BNDES subsid-
iaries are available in the Project File for the years 1979 through 1981.
At the end of 1981 assets of FINAME amounted to US$4.6 billion equivalent and
those of the other subsidiaries (now merged into BNDESPAR) totaled US$1.4
billion equivalent of which US$1.2 billion was investments in some 230
Brazilian companies. Operations of the subsidiaries are financed mainly with
advances made by BNDES and its equity contributions. Earnings are derived
from the financial spread on loans (in the case of FINAME) and on loan and
investment income in the case of the other subsidiaries. Taking one year
with another, the subsidiaries are expected to at least breakeven on their
operations which they have done, more or less, as a group in the years 1979
through 1981a
Audit
3.29       BNTDES has a competent internal audit department which, in addition
to its normal internal auditing functions, prepares a highly detailed and
useful annual review of BNDES operations and performance.  BNDES also has its
annual accounts audited by competent, independent external auditors and
publishes an annual report of its activities and of those of its subsid-
iaries. It would be a condition of the loan that BNDES continue to engage
independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank.
B. BNDES Area of Operations with Agents
Organization, Management and Staff
3.30       AP-III is the operating area of BNDES responsible for the analysis,
contracting and supervision of operations and programs through Financial
Agents and of operations with the States for increasing the capital of the



- 29 -
SDBs and of state commercial banks with development portfolios. It also
supervises the performance of financial agents and coordinates the provision
of technical and managerial assistance to SDBs.
3.31      AP-III has two departments, one of which was originally responsible
for investment banks and the other for development banks, but which now look
after both, dividing the responsibility on a geographical basis. AP-III had
125 staff at the end of March 1982, of which 19 were executives, 48 were
professionals (15 lawyers, 6 accountants, 14 economists, 9 engineers, 2
statisticians, and 2 specialists in administration) and 58 support staff.
Staff are generally highly qualified, with a number of years of experience in
working with financial agents.
Programs and Operations
3.32      AP-III's main program of operation is its Program of Joint
Operations (POC) through financial agents (Investment Banks and State and
Regional Development Banks, including State Commercial Banks with a develop-
ment portfolio). Within POC, financial agents can carry out two types of
operations: (a) financing of national companies (FINEM), and (b) financing
of national shareholders (FINAC) whereby shareholders use the proceeds of the
loan to acquire shares in the company executing the project being financed.
POC resources can be used to finance fixed investments (civil works, and the
acquisition of machinery and equipment) and permanent working capital and for
the financial strengthening of companies. The terms and conditions of POC
lending operations are given in Annex 2. Norms governing POC operations are
spelled out in a consolidated statement of policies and procedures which are
currently being revised after discussions with the Bank. Contents of a
consolidated statement of policies and procedures for AP-III/POC would be
reviewed with BNDES during negotiations.  It would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the loan that a revised statement acceptable to the Bank be
approved by BNDES and subsequent substantive amendments be made only with
Bank approval.
3.33      Apart from the POC program, AP-III also has three other small
programs. CONSERVE (Program for Conservation of Energy in the Industrial
Sector) is designed to encourage companies to replace petroleum based
operations with other energy sources. CEME (drug center programs) is
designed to expand and modernize the official system for producing medicines
and to increase the production of pharmaceuticals by national companies.
AP-III also assists in financing the training programs of ABDE (the Brazilian
Association of Development Banks) and programs to support very small com-
panies and small and medium exporters carried out by CEBRAE (the Brazilian
Center for support to small and medium enterprise).



- 30 -
Table 3.7: AP-III OPERATIONS 1976 TO 1981
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
Approvals - US$ million                 642    306    565    786    464    181
Disbursements - US$ million             461    467    522    655    384    220
- share of BNDES'
system (%)              15.0   13.4   12.7   15.8   11.5    7.0
Distribution of POC approvals
by Region (%)
North and Northeast                    18.8   26.3   37.4   44.0   43.9   43.8
South, Minais Gerais, Rio de
Janeiro                              55.4   58.2   45.6   39.1   40.8   40.7
Sao Paulo                              25.8   15.2   17.0   16.9   15.3   15.5
Distribution of POC by sector (%)
Industry                                      92      78     67      78      85
Commerce                                       7      15      15      9       6
Services                                       1       7      18     13       9
Source: BNDES and Bank staff.
3.34      AP-III operates principally through global contracts which it
enters into from time to time with the participating financial agents as a
group. The contract specifies the total amount of the contract, the purposes
for which resources are to be used, onlending terms and agents remuneration,
free limits, etc. Specific allocations of funds by agent are set and
adjusted from time to time depending upon the utilization of the quotas by
the agents.
3.35      AP-III's operations for the years 1976 to 1981 are shown in
Annex 5, T-9, and summarized in Table 3.7. POC lending operations predom-
inated through the PACOTE subprogram (designed for small and medium sized
firms with assets up to US$5.6 million after project implementation), the
Projeto subprogram (for assisting large enterprises), the Programa subprogram
(for financing sectoral development programs) and the FINAC subprogram for
financing shareholders. In addition to the POC program, AP-III's loans to
states for increasing the capital of the state development banks were large
in 1978 and 1979. AP-I11 approvals and disbursements reached their highest
levels in 1978 and 1979 when economic activity was high, but also partly
because some of POC's lending was at highly subsidized rates (with monetary
correction limited initially to 20% p.a., and later to 70% of the adjustment
in the ORTN index, plus interest). The very high levels of FINAC operations
in the years 1977 through 1980 were to some extent due to the subsidies.
Lending fell in 1980 and 1981 partly because of the elimination of the
subsidies but mostly because of cut backs in AP-III's budget allocations.
BNDES reduced the resources available to AP-III considerably in 1981 and 1982
to devote resources to its large, directly financed projects so that AP-III
share of BNDES system disbursements fell from an average of 13.7% in



- 31 -
1976-1980 to 7% in 1981 and is expected to be less than 6% in 1982.  AP-III
has been successful in its operations through agents in transferring its
resources on a broad geographical basis.  In the years 1978-1981 some 43% of
its resources went to the poorest regions of the North and Northeast, 41% to
the South, Minais Gerais, Rio de Janeiro and the Federal District and only
16% went to the most highly industrialized Sao Paulo area. AP-III programs
have clear'ly contributed to the industrial deconcentration efforts of the
Governament, principally through its support to small and medium industry
projects channelled through the state and regional development banking
system.
3.36      in the years 1976 to 1981, 79% of POC operations were channelled
through the state and regional development banking system and 21% through
investment banks.  About 80% of POC loans were for industry, 12% for commerce
and 8% for services. Some 66% of POC loans were for financing of fixed
assets and permanent working capital, 21% for permanent working capital only
and i3% for financial strengthening of enterprises.
Appraisal and Supervision
3.37      Formats for subproject appraisal are established by AP-III and
cover all essential data about the enterprise, the project and the subloan.
Since there is some variability in the quality of the appraisals carried out
by the SDBs, AP-III has a number of levels of free limits for financial
agents ranging in subloan amount from 20,000 ORTNs for the newer less sophis-
ticated SDBs and IBs to 150,000 ORTNs for the more experienced and stronger
institutions (from US$0.2 to US$1.7 million). AP-III staff review and
comment on appraisals of operations above the agent's free Limit and prepare
a "reanalysis" report of the subproject. Occasionally some operations are
rejected by AP-III but in the majority of cases most operations above the
free limits are approved although often with modifications in project scope,
lending terms and conditions, etc. Operations above 250,000 ORTN (about
US$2.8 million) must be approved by BNDES Board.
3.38      After its many years of operations and the training in project
analysis supplied to financial agents by AP-III staff and the Brazilian
Association of Development Banks (ABDE), project appraisals are normally of
good and in many cases of high quality. However, financial agents justify
subprojects primarily on the basis of financial criteria (as well as tech-
nical and operational soundness) and do not carry out economic analyses. As
part of the Plan of Action to be agreed between BNDES and the Bank, AP-III
proposes to organize, in cooperation with ABDE, programs to train staff of
the financial agents in the economic evaluation of projects so that AP-III
can require such evaluations for subprojects above the agent's free limits.
The objective would be to have all agents provide such analyses within two
years of the initiation of the training programs (i.e. by end 1984). The EDI
is expected to assist ABDE to organize training courses for the SDBs in
economic analysis and environmental impact of projects, procurement and other
courses to improve the effectiveness of officers of the development banking
system. Priority would be given to the courses in economics with the objec-
tive of having the larger SDBs, which account for some 70% of their lending,
introduce economic evaluacion of projects during the first year of the
project, 1983.



- 32 -
3.39      Over the years, the emphasis given by AP-III to supervision has
shifted from an emphasis on a review of specific subprojects and of programs
financed by BNDES through agents to much greater emphasis on the institu-
tional, organizational and financial strengths and weaknesses of the agents
themselves,  The shift was aided by the loans AP-III made to the states for
increasing the capital of SDBs where a detailed institutional analysis was
required.  This process is continuing as many of the agents become more expe-
rienced and stronger institutionally and financially. AP-III is concen-
trating its efforts more on analyzing the overall resource requirements of
the system of financial agents, their policies and procedures, development
roles within their spheres of influence, the technical capacities of their
staff, etc. AP-III's supervision activities are, thereLore. carried on at
three levels. First, AP-III carries out from time to time (once a year is
the objective) a review of the institution itself. This involves a review of
its legal and organizational structure, policies and procedures, levels and
capabilities of staff, financial condition, position of the agent in the
state and its relation with other institutions and existing and potential
customers, etc. As a result of these reviews AP-III makes recommendations
principally for improving policies and procedures and for training staff.
Bec-u,e of political sensibilities it has been difficult to request changes
'i- organizational structures, for example,  on salary levels, but through
mceetings which AP-Ii has arranged with groups of officials of the SDW  these
ruhjects have been discussed and some progress has been made.
3.40      As part of AP-IIt's Plain of Action, it will further strengthen and
monitor norms for the financial performance of the SDBs includinig acceptable
levels of administrative expenses, overdue loans concentration of risk,
capital structure, liquidity and profitability.
3.41      The second kind of supervision which AP-III carries out is the
review of the program AP-III finances with a particular agent. AP-III staff
review the use of the resources transferred, evaluate the results of the
program in terms of growth in installed capacity, capital formation, employ-
ment created, financial condition of companies supported, etc. Finally,
AP-III reviews specific subprojects financed with its resources, including
compliance with the subloan contract, disbursement conditions, adequacy of
guarantees and insurance, supply of information on the subproject to the
Linanicial agent, etc.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.42      AP-III normally relies on the procurement procedures of the
financial agents which are based upon the normal commercial practice of
project beneficiaries and are acceptable. They are described in more detail
in para 4.07. Subloan disbursement requests received from financial agents
include a list of the documents supporting such requests. The original
documents are retained by the agents and AP-III staff review these documents
on periodic supervision missions, normally on a sample basis.  From time to
time AP-III staff also visit selected project beneficiaries in order to
revieT,w the works financed and to check the adequacy of the agents' procedures
and subproject supervision.



- 33 -
IV. THE STATE AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS AND THE INVESTMENT BANKS
A. The State and Regional Development Banks
Organization, Management and Staffing
4.01      In response to a need for institutions which could provide term
finance at the regional or local level, a number of state and regional
development banks (SDBs) were established in the 1960s. The basis for the
sound development of the SDB system was established in 1968 when the Central
Bank formally regulated the constitution and functions of SDBs. The system
now consists of 12 state development banks, one state and two federal
regional development banks and 11 state commercial banks with development
portfolios. A list of these institutions is given in Annex 4. The SDBs
objectives include promoting and assisting the development of agricultural,
industrial and service enterprises; encouraging and promoting import
substitution and export oriented projects; stimulating private investments in
the basic sectors of the economy; and supporting public sector infrastructure
projects. To accomplish these objectives, the SDBs engage in short and long
term lending, share capital financing and underwriting, and provide local and
foreign currency guarantees. Though a number of the SDBs only started to
operate in the early 1970s, they have proved to be dynamic instruments which
the federal and state authorities use for implementing their economic
development policies.
4.02      At the end of 1981 the SDBs capital and retained earnings had a
book value of some US$963 million equivalent (state development banks $430
million, regional development banks $375 million and state commercial banks
with development portfolios $158 million). The majority of capital stock is
held by the public sector except for Banco do Nordeste which is 51.4%
privately owned (although Government controlled). Two of the regional banks
(Banco de Amazonia and Banco do Nordeste) are under the authority of the
Federal Government; Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul is
administered by the State Governments of Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio
Grande do Sul.
4.03      State Governments set the policies of their development banks, yet,
with a few exceptions, they have not exercised undue influence on the
day-to-day operations of the SDBs. In most states there is an effective
working relationship between local authorities and the SDBs, allowing the
SDBs to participate actively in the development process and to diversify
their assistance beyond the primary role of providing term finance. In
Minais Gerais, for example, the SDB there works closely and effectively with
the state planning department and is a key institution in promoting and
financing state and regional development.
4.04      Each SDB is governed by an assembly of shareholders assisted by a
fiscal council. In most SDBs, management authority is delegated to a
collegial directorate, consisting of from three to seven directors and a
president. Each director is responsible for the operations of a functional
area or areas and the president is chairman of the board. The full board
meets periodically to discuss policy matters. The system works extremely
well in some states where a number of the directors are career officers of
the SDBs. In other states where the Board is replaced with each change of



-. 34 -
state governm ent, olten by individuals without appropriate background or
experience  manage-went is usually weaker.  In recent years, ABDE has carried
uut special management training programs for new director appointees which
nas greatly helped thie management transitlon process in some SDBs.
Nevertheless, BNDES, through AP-III, has for some time been attempting to use
its influience to require that Board members meet minimum professional
qualifications and that a number be career officers of the SDB.
4.05       Staff numibers vary from 135 for Banco de Desenvolvimento do Ceara
to 5,676 for Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (see Annex 3). The state commercial
banks have a significantly higher number of support personnel reflecting the
mixed nature of their commercial and development operations. Staff quality
differs among SDBs. In the larger banks, particularly in the more developed
areas, staff quality is reasonably, and in some cases very high. In some
SDBs, staff is relatively inexperienced, in some cases because salary scales
are not always competitive with the private sector. Through its training
programs, ABDE has helped greatly to improve the capabilities of the staff of
the SDBs and the Bank and BNDES will cooperate with ABDE to assure that its
work is continued and expanded in the future (para 4.22),
Appraisal, Supervision and Audit
4.06       The SDBs normally follow the format established by BNDES for
project appraisal work. Appraisal standards for larger SDBs are usually
satisfactory and through ABDE programs staff of the newer and smaller SDBs
have been trained in the various elements of appraisal work.  Although there
has been significant improvement in recent years in the SDBs ability to
assess the technical aspects of projects, the SDBs generally focus on the
financial aspects and the borrowers' creditworthiness and the collateral he
can offer.  In determining the economic viability of projects, SDBs are
guided by the sectcral priorities established by the Federal Government in
projects financed with BNDES and Central Bank funds, their own views on state
priorities or those set by the State Planning Departments. They do not
normally calculate the economic rate of return of projects. However, as
discussed in para 4o24g as part of the Plan of Action, BNDES proposes to work
with ABDE to train staff of the SDBs so that all will be able carry out such
analysis by the end of 1984.
4.07       In checking procurement, the SDBs rely mainly upon the normal
commercial practice of their customers to shop around for the best quality
goods and services at the lowest price. The SDBs complement this activity by
having their engineers review the proposed equipment and civil works design
and contractors bids to determine the appropriateness of the technology
adopted, costs, quality and project scope. As part of the Plan of Action,
training programs would be carried out by AP-III through ABDE to further
strengthen the capabilities of the SDBs in procurement procedures.
4.08       All of th.e SDBs have established project supervision procedures,
which have been much improved with the assistance of ABDE in the smaller and
newer SDBs in recent years. The development banks also have established
disbursement procedures which are adequate. Loan disbursements are mostly
made in installments and are only authorized upon demonstration of
satisfactory progress (which is usually checked by periodic inspections
during project implementation) and evidence that loan conditions have been
met.



- 35 -
4.09       All of the larger SDBs have independent external auditors and as
part of the Plan of Action, AP-TII proposes to attempt to get the remaining
SDBs to engage qualified external auditors. For some of the smaller SDBs,
AP-III has relied on the periodic inspections by the Central Bank which are
designed to ensure that the banking laws and regulations are complied with
but which are limited in scope and do not cover all the reviews carried out
under normal external auditing procedures.
Operations
4.10      Total commitments and disbursements of the SDBs, excluding Banco do
Nordeste which does not supply data on commitments, have been as shown in
Table 4.1 in the past four years.
Table 4.1: SDBs COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
(billion US$)
Year            Commitments                Disbursements
1978                 2.7                          1.7
1979                 2.1                          1.6
1980                 3.5                          1.8
1981                 2.7                         2.4
4.11      Commitments have been on average, 45% for public enterprises
(mostly for infrastructure investments), and the balance private sector loans
(rural 8%, industry 35% and other 12%). The SDBs have been an important
factor in development, both with their own resources and with those
transferred from public institutions.
Resources and Financial Position
4.12      The resource structure of the SDBs has undergone some change in
recent years. Listed in Table 4.2 is the consolidated resource structure of
the SDBs at the end of 1978 and 1981 in US$ equivalents.



- 36 -
Table 4.2: RESOURCE STRUCTURE OF SDBs
(US$ maillions)
December 31
19 7 8        %1981 
Deposits                                   56.0         1.4         733.0    16,2
Loans - Central Bank                      456.1        11.7         239.0      5.3
BNDES                          1,069.9        27.6         580.1    12.9
BNH (Housing Bank)                287.0        7.4         411.1      9.1
FINAME                            911.3       23.4       1,248.3    27.7
Other                            249,5         6.4         206.8      4.6
2,973.8       76.5       2,685.3    59.5
Foreign loans                              81.4         2.1         305.7      6.8
Financial and other funds                 217X1.       5v6          267.7      5.9
Equiity                                   558.8        14,l        5r222    11i6
3,887.2      1500 .      4,e13.9   100.0
4.13      Because of limitations on AP-III leI ding, BNDES share of the
resouroes supplied to SDBs has dec.lined in recent years. Whereas at the end
of 1978 BNDES and FINAME together accounted for 51% of the resources made
available to SDBs, by the end of 1981 the total had declined to less than 41%
(althoughl FINAME's share continued to iicrease). This decline was made up by
a large increase :in deposits and a smaller increase in foreign loans.
Beginning in 1980 and to a much greater extent in 1981, the SDBs, especially
those in Rio, Sao Paulo, Minais Gerais, and the South, began to obtain
significant amounts of resources by issuing certificates of deposits both
locally and in the major financial centers, At the same time the SDBs
increased their operations with foreign funds, although almost all of the
such operations are accounted for by four banks, BDMG (Minais Gerais), BADESP
(Sao Paulo), BADEP (Parana) and BRDE (regional development bank of the
extreme south). Both the certificates of deposit and foreign loans have been
used to make short term, mainly working capital loans.
4.14      During the last two years, because of the shortage of resources for
AP-TIT operations, the SDBs have been forced to find other sources of
finance. Some have been imaginative and successful not only in finding funds
but in devising successful schemes for onlending them including new leasing
operations. Nevertheless, the short term nature of most of the funds
obtained has not been a suitable substitute for the term resources supplied
by AP-IlI which are needed for new projects and financial restructuring,
4.15      Balance sheets of the state development banks as a group are shown
in Annex 5, T-10 for the years 1974 through 1981e  Prior to 1978 only a
partial adjustment was made to correct equity and permanent assets for the
effects of inflation so that earnings in these years were overstated,
Beginning in 1978 such adjustments were made and the figures more nearly



- 37 -
reflect earnings in real terms. Earnings for these years for the banks as
a group are shown in Annex 5, T-11. Balance sheets and income and expense
statements for each bank for 1981 are given in Annex 5, T-12 and T-13.
4.16       Basically the pure state development banks can be divided into
three groups as shown in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: SDBs FINANCIAL VIABILITY
Profitable             With Moderate Losses          With Large Losses
DESENBANCO (Bahia)     BRDE (Extreme South Region)      BADESC (Santa Catarina)
BANDES (Espirito
Santo)               BADEP (Parana)                   BANDECE (Ceara)
BDMG (Minais Gerais)   BD-RIO (Rio de Janeiro)          BDM (Maranhao)
BADESP (Sao Paulo)     BADESUL (Rio Grande do Sul)      BDRN (Rio Grande do
Norte)
BD-GOIAS (Goias)
Rate of
return of
group 1/         9-5%                   (2.6%)                       (20.0%)
1/  Real average rate of return on equity in the years 1979-1981.
The first two groups are already or are potentially viable institutions.  In
fact, in 1981 every member of these two groups had a profit in real terms
with the exception of BADEP which had a very small loss (see Annex 5, T-13).
In 1981, the SDBs made a profit as a group, and 9 of the 13, accounting for
95% of their total assets had profits or a minor loss. Annex 5, T-14 gives
an analysis of their 1981 operations. Of the five with large losses, three,
BDM, BDRN and BD Goias, have not yet reached a size where they can be
financially viable.  It may be that it would be better to merge their
operations with those of their state commercial banks to achieve economies of
scale. BANDECE has reached a size where it could be a profitable institu-
tion. It needs to reduce both its losses from low yielding investments and
its relatively high administrative expenses. BADESC made a small profit in
1981 and needs also to reduce the level of its administrative expenses to be
viable. AP-III staff is working with the SDBs to achieve these objectives.
Moreover, AP-III are reviewing the size of financial spreads which it permits
financial intermediaries and will probably increase them.
4.17       A few key data will illustrate the financial position of the state
development banks. At the end of 1981, debt was 7.7 times equity for these
banks as a group with the highest ratio being 12.6 times for BD-RIO (the
BNDES limit is 15 times).  Because of much stricter collection procedures
instituted since 1979, the level of overdue accounts has declined from 43% of
total equity at the end of 1979 to 34% at the end of 1981 despite a severe
deterioriation in economic conditions.  Since the end of 1978 when the new
accounting procedures were introduced, the value of the equity of the banks



- 38 -
increased almost as  uch as domestic inflation so that its value is being
largely maintained in real terms.
4.18      Balance sheets and Income Statements of the Federal regional devel-
opment banks and the state commercial banks with development portfolios for
the year 1981 are given in Annex 5, T-15 and T-16 (which show their consolid-
ated financial statements and results of operations) and in Annex 5, T-17 and
T-18 (which show the assets and liabilities and operating results of their
development operations). All are profitable institutions although some need
and are receiving assistance from AP-III in improving the administration of
their development portfolios.
The Development Banking Association
4.19      ABDE was established in 1969 in order to promote the operational
and institutional strengthening of its members, administer a program to train
executives and technical staff and assist in establishing and applying
ethical standards and regulations of conduct.  It also represents the devel-
opment banks with the Government and large financial institutions (BNDES,
BNH, Central Bank, etc.). ABDE has 26 members including BNDES, the 12 state
development banks, 10 state banks with development portfolios and the 3
regional development banks. In 1981, ABDE spent some US$750,000 equivalent,
principally on the training programs it administers. BNDES paid 80% of the
training budget (to be reduced gradually over the years) and 20% of the ABDE
budget for representing members. The balance is covered by members' contri-
butions.
4.20      ABDE has a staff of 40, working principally on economic studies and
in administering training and technical assistance programs. From its begin-
ning in 1974 until the end of 1981, some 5,944 persons received training
totalling 46,600 classroom hours in courses on project analysis and supervi-
sion, marketing financial services, financial administration, credit collec-
tion, export financing, auditing, etc. Indoctrination courses for new
management are also given. ABDE basically manages the courses which are
given by professors of several universities with which ABDE maintains close
relations, educational and research foundations and, most importantly, by
the professional staff of the more experienced development banks.
4.21      ABDE also manages a technical program in the areas of planning,
financial administration, administration of human resources, and organization
systems and methods. This assistance is actually given by teams provided by
the more experienced development banks.
4.22      The ABDE programs have been instrumental in training staff of the
development banks and in transferring the latest management techniques to the
newer and less sophisticated development banks. ABDE plans to introduce new
training programs in the economic analysis of projects, urban development,
capital markets, pollution control and procurement. It has indicated that it
would welcome the assistance of the EDI in designing appropriate courses in
some of these areas.



- 39 -
AP-III Plan of Action for Upgrading the Development Banks
4.23      AP-III has been reviewing its policies and procedures vis-a-vis the
national system of development banks and has prepared a Plan of Action to
clarify its role. A draft of the Plan was reviewed during appraisal and the
final Plan was reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
4.24      Through its operations with the national system of development
banks, BNDES (through AP-III) hopes to facilitate access, especially for
small and medium enterprises, to sources of finance; transfer investment
decision making to the local level and make the BNDES system more sensitive
to regional needs; reduce development costs by speeding up the decision
making process for smaller investments which would be made at the local
level; and improve local mechanisms for attracting resources for develop-
ment. These objectives can be achieved by AP-III by a program of lines of
credit for financial intermediaries with AP-III concentrating on an institu-
tional and operational review of the development banks and their organiza-
tional and institutional strengthening. In addition, AP-III programs to
finance capital increases will contribute to their financial strengthening,
and training programs for technical and management staff will improve their
administration. For the very smallest enterprises AP-III will continue to
support the training and technical assistance programs of CEBRAE (Brazilian
Center for Support for Small and Medium Enterprise). More specifically,
AP-III has agreed to support programs to train staff of all the development
banks over the next two years in calculating economic rates of return of
projects and to require them to do such calculations immediately for all
subprojects above the Bank's free limit and to introduce this kind of
analysis gradually for all projects above AP-III's free limits. AP-III also
agreed to require external audits by all financial agents, and to establish
guidelines for, and monitor the performance of, the financial agents on
levels of administrative expenses, overdue accounts, concentration of risk,
capital structure, liquidity and profitability. In order to reduce current
global restrictions on lending in certain subsectors, AP-III will agree
priority subsectors on a state by state basis with the respective financial
intermediaries and state or regional governments. A lending goal would be
that at least 75% of AP-III resources was used for lending to SME.
B. Investment Banks
4.25      Investment banks (IBs) were created simultaneously with the SDBs as
a second set of first tier institutions aimed primarily at meeting the
investment needs of the Brazilian private sector.  Of 38 IBs, 29 belong to
commercial banking groups, including one SDB, and 9 are independent. As of
March 31, 1982, IBs had combined assets of US$11.9 billion, including US$1.4
billion of equity and US$10.5 of liabilities of which US$5.5 billion were
certificates of deposit, US$1.1 billion loans from BACEN, BNDES (including
FINAME) and BNH transfers, US$2.8 billion fom foreign borrowing, and US$1.1
of other liabilities. In addition, they had granted guarantees of US$850
million. Of the transfers from BNDES appearing in lBs balance sheets some
US$200 million had been from AP-IIIs POC program.



- 40 -
4.26       Investment banks have two main areas of operations, lending and
capital markets, the latter including underwriting operations and the
management of Fiscal Funds (para. 2.12). Their lending operations are mostly
short-term, reflecting the sources of funding of these institutions.
Approximnately 63% of their funding is from the sale of certificates of
deposit and other instruments with maturities from six months to one year.
Another US$2.8 billion, or 27% of their borrowings, are in foreign
currencies, mostly under Central Bank Resolution 63 (para 2.16). Although
these funds are borrowed by the IBs for a minimum of 8.5 years, as required
by Resolution 63, most are onlent for periods of less than a year due to the
very strong reluctance of borrowers to assume any more foreign exchange risks
than the absolute minimum required by the lack of alternative sources of
cruzeiro financing (para 2.23). With LIBOR at 15% and with the current
Braziliarn policy of devaluing the cruzeiro at the full rate of domestic
inflation, Resolution 63 funds can cost borrowers as much as 25% in real
terms. Indeed, recently Resolution 63 was modified to allow onlending for
only three months instead of the previous six-month minimum in order to
attract more borrowers for such funds.
4!27       The third source of funding of lBs are the transfers from the BACEN
funds for special programs (paras 2.06 and 2.07), BNDES, and BNH, although
the latter only represents some 3% of all such transfers. These transfers
are utilized mostly for medium and long-term financing of capital investments
on the terms and conditions and for the purposes of each of the lines of
credit. Thus, BACEN funds are utilized mainly to support investments related
to agriculture and energy, and to promote export activities. The only
relatively free source of funds, in terms of end use, are those from
AP-III's POC program which have been in very short supply during the past
three years.  In fact, only some US$140 million of POC funds were onlent by
lBs during 1980 and 1981, compared to US$295 million during the previous two
years.
4.28       Contributing to the reduction of onlending of POC funds by lBs are
the strict subproject appraisal requirements of AP-III. To meet these
requirements the IBs established subproject appraisal units within their
organization. However, as POC funds became scarce in 1980 and 1981, IBs no
longer found it profitable to keep separate staff to appraise subprojects,
and many such units were disbanded. Today few IBs actively promote POC
funds. Indeed, IBs onlent only US$26 million of POC funds in 1981. This
decline is unfortunate because many IBs have extensive branch networks which
have a large potential for reaching SMEs outside the main metropolitan
areas. By increasing the resources available for POC onlending in 1983 and
1984, the proposed loan would encourage many of the lBs to again promote the
onlending of POC resources, and would thus result in a wider geographical
distribution of investments financed under the proposed loan.



- 41 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. The Project
Project Objectives
5.01      The proposed project is expected to be one of a number of indus-
trial sector projects to support the Government's current program to reduce
over time distortions affecting Brazilian trade and industrial development.
Details of this program are spelled out in Chapter I of this report. The
project would provide needed medium and long term resources, principally to
private Brazilian small and medium enterprise which have suffered the most
from the lack of such resources. The proposed loan would directly support
AP-IIITs efforts to further strengthen the institutional capabilities and
financial condition of the SDBs, including their evaluation and supervision
of projects.  In this way, the proposed project and loan would improve
AP-III's ability to support and influence the growth and strengthening of the
development banking system in Brazil. The project also includes the carrying
out of studies on the industrial sector in Brazil and on trade policy to
support the ongoing dialogue between the Government and the Bank on these
matters (para 1.23).
Demand for Resources
5.02      The Bank would support AP-III's POC program for the two years
1983/84. AP-III and Bank staff prepared forecasts of POC and other oper-
ations for the program period taking into account a number of factors.
First, it was clear that Bank (and cofinancing) funds would eliminate one of
the principal constraints on AP-III which has reduced its term lending
significantly, particularly in 1981 and 1982. Despite eliminating this
constraint, AP-III does not expect the demand for resources to reach the
level attained in the years 1976 to 1980 (when AP-III lending averaged US$550
million equivalent a year) because they expect recovery from the current
recession to be slow. However, it is clear that investment has been post-
poned due to the recent lack of term resources and very high real interest
rates. Demand for term resources should, therefore, be large when such
resources are made available on reasonable terms. Moreover, demand is
expected to increase also because of the removal of sectoral limitations
which have restricted AP-III lending since 1980. The AP-III lending program
of $300 million equivalent in 1983 and $350 million in 1984 is, therefore,
considered to be conservative but was accepted by BNDES and the Bank to
provide a sound basis for a successful Bank loan operation which could be
committed within two to two and one-half, and disbursed within three to four
years.
Previous Bank Operations with BNDES
5.03      This would be the Second Development Banking project through
AP-III, the first being Loan 1206-BR for $85.0 million signed on March 1,
1976. Unfortunately, approval of 1206-BR coincided with the introduction of
new Government subsidized lending programs. The subsidies resulted in
negative lending rates for many of the programs to have been financed with
Bank resources. Bank disbursements were restricted to operations with
positive lending rates and, since the subsidies were extended year after
year, Bank disbursements were very slow. Some $50 million of the loan was



- 42 -
cancelled in Janua.-y 1980 and a furtlher $3.8 million was cancelled in July
and August of that year. Although the subsidies caused a slowing of dis-
bursements on Loan 1206-BR, they also resulted in an increase in the amount
of AP-III lending and in the number of its lending operations. AP-III was
unable to increase its staffing to handle this large increase with the result
that its professional staff had little time to devote to the institutional
problems of the SDBs. Despite these pressures, some institutional improve-
ments were made including important training and technical assistance
programs achieved through ABDE with AP-III support. Moreover, when the
subsidized lending programs were eliminated, AP-III showed a renewed interest
in supporting programs to strengthen the SDBs, both institutionally and
financially, and AP-III is now concerned to make further progress in these
areas as described in paras 4.23 and 4.24 of this report.  (For further
details on Loan 1206-BR, see PCR, November 30, 1981.)
B. The Proposed Loan
Borrower, Executing Agency and Onlending Terms
5.04      The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the Borrower and would
make the resources of the proposed loan available, through its Central Bank
(BACEN), to BNDES. The Executing Agency would be BNDES, which would make
available Bank and BNDES resources to eligible financial intermediaries
through the Program of Joint Operations with Agents (POC) of its Projects
Department III (AP-III). The Government would make cruzeiros available to
BNDES equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from the Bank loan at the exchange
rate prevailing at the time of each payment by BNDES. Arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank between the Government and BNDES for transferring
the resources would be a condition of effectiveness. Principal and interest
payments on the Bank loan would be made by BNDES and BNDES would assume the
foreign exchange risk. During project preparation the Bank attempted to
arrange for the Government to assume the foreign exchange risk on the loan to
protect BNDES which will be using the proceeds of the loan to make subloans
in cruzeiros (mainly to small and medium domestic enterprises), the principal
of which will be adjusted for changes in the ORTN index. The Government
decided not to assume this risk and BNDES and the Bank agreed to accept this
decision for the following reasons. The ORTN is the most common index for
applying monetary correction. Between 1976-78 the ORTN moved just behind
inflation and slightly ahead of devaluation. In 1979-80 both the ORTN and
devaluation lagged substantially behind inflation except for the effects of
the 30% December 1979 maxi-devaluation. Since about March 1981 all three
indicators have been moving at roughly the same rate and it is expected that
the cruzeiro will lose most of its current overvaluation by about the end of
1983. Thereafter the rate of devaluation would lag inflation and ORTN move-
ments by the equivalent of the difference between Brazilian inflation and
that ot its trading partners. While some of the loan will be disbursed while
the current cruzeiro overvaluation is being eliminated, the exchange losses
are not expected to be large, and should be recovered thereafter through
BNDES financial spread on subloans. The weighted average of BNDES interest
charges to financial intermediaries is estimated to be 5.7% p.a. (5.2% p.a.
after administrative costs) compared with an expected real cost of Bank
resources over the life of the loan of about 4% p.a. BNDES 1.7% p.a. spread



- 43 -
over the cost of Bank resources should enable it to cover its administrative
expenses and any exchange losses 5/ provided the ORTN is adjusted to fully
reflect domestic inflation. Provision is made for stopping subloan commit-
ments and disbursements if ORTN adjustments fail to reflect inflation (para
5.21).
5.05      BNDES onlending terms and conditions to financial intermediaries
and by these to beneficiaries would be in accordance with AP-III/POC policies
and procedures which are modified from time to time to reflect the prevailing
economic situation and conditions in Brazilian capital markets. Current
onlending terms are shown in Annex 2. Currently, subloans are made for up to
ten years, including three years of grace, for fixed assets and related work-
ing capital, and for up to five years, including two years of grace, for
permanent working capital. Interest rates to beneficiaries, which vary
according to region, scale of enterprise and purpose of the financing, range
from 6% to 12.0%, and spreads for financial intermediaires, from 2.5% to 4%
p.a. for loans for financing fixed assets and permanent working capital. For
loans to finance permanent working capital, interest rates to final benefi-
ciaries are from 8.5% to 12% p.a. with spreads of 2% to 3% p.a. The weighted
average BNDES lending rate on project subloans is expected to be 5.7% p.a.,
the average spread to financial intermediaries, 3% p.a., and the cost to
project beneficiaries 8.7% p.a. Current maximum BNDES system (including
FINAME) financing ranges from 60% to 80% of total subproject cost and
requires a minimum participation by the beneficiary of from 20% to 30%,
depending on region and scale of enterprise. Subloans are made in cruzeiros
with principal adjusted for changes in the ORTN index except for 30% of the
subloans to large enterprises which are adjusted for changes in the Cr$/US$
exchange rate. Onlending terms were reviewed with BNDES during loan
negotiations as was the consolidated statement of policies and procedures of
AP-III/POC and were found to be acceptable. Agreement was obtained to review
AP-III/POC onlending rates periodically to reflect changes in market
conditions, including possible changes to reflect semi-annual revisions in
the Bank's lending rate (para 5.21).
Amount of Loan, Counterpart and Cofinancing
5.06      The Bank loan of $220 million equivalent would include $216.75
million to finance part of the 1983/84 AP-III Program shown in Table 5.1;
and $3,251,232 for the capitalized front-end fee.
5/   The full foreign exchange risk is the difference between movements in the
value of the Bank's currency pool expressed in cruzeiros and the ORTN
(para. 3.22).



- 44 -
Table 5.1:  AP1III 1983-1984 LENDING PROGRAM
US$ millions
Total
Proj ect
BNDES    %    Bank    %    Total        Cost
POC
Fixed assets and related
working capital
Small and medium
enterprise                   151    50.0   151  50.0    302         604
Large enterprise                50    50.0    50  50.0    100         333
201            201           402       937
Permanent working capital
only                           105    87.5    16  12.5    121         186
Financial strengthening           78               -            78      156
384            217           601    1,279
Other AP-III programs                50              -            50       100
434            217           651    1,379
5.07      The loan would support a two-year investment program totalling
$1,379 million. Bank and AP-III resources combined would cover, on average,
up to 50% for SME and 30% for large enterprises, of the total cost of
eligible POC subprojects to finance fixed assets and related working capital,
the average proportions which AP-III has financed in the last three years.
For subprojects involving only permanent working capital with which to
increase existing capacity utilization, Bank and AP-III resources would
finance, on average, up to 65% of total subproject costs. The Bank loan of
US$220 million (including capitalized front-end fee) would cover 50% of
AP-III/POC disbursements for subprojects to finance fixed assets and related
working capital, and 12.5% for subprojects involving only permanent working
canital. These percentages would result in Bank financing of the estimated
foreign exchange content of eligible subprojects. The Bank would not parti-
cipate in POC's program for financial strengthening of enterprises as such
subloans are made for financial restructuring and no new investments result
from such operations.
5.08      The provision of counterpart funds would be automatic as the Bank
would reimburse AP-III for a share of its loans already made. AP-III would
provide US$434 million of the cost of the total two-year program, somewhat
above an average of $200 million a year. This is roughly in line with



- 45 -
AP-III's level of operations in 1981 and 1982 and Bank funds would not
substitute for other BNDES resources but will result in a real increase in
AP-III programs. Cofinancing of up to an additional $150 million is planned
by BNDES in conjunction with the Bank loan. It believes that the project
would represent an attractive financing package for foreign commercial
banks. With these additional resources to support AP-IIIs lending programs,
BNDES could allocate more of its other resources (PIS/PASEP transfers,
domestic borrowings, retained earnings) to its other lending and investment
operations. However, failure to raise the full amount of cofinancing would
not affect the project.
Financial Intermediaries
5.09      Eligible financial intermediaries would be the state and regional
development banks, state commercial banks with development portfolios and
investment banks which currently participate in POC programs as described in
paras 3.31 to 3.33.
Beneficiaries
5.10      The proposed loan would provide term financing to small and medium
scale Brazilian owned or controlled enterprises with fixed assets, including
the new investment being financed, not exceeding 500,000 ORTN 6/ (about
US$5.6 million), in all productive, distributive and service activities
except agriculture and housing; and large Brazilian owned or controlled
industrial and agroindustrial enterprises for investments not exceeding
1,000,000 ORTN (about US$11.2 million).
5.11      Based upon the full costs of investment and working capital per job
created in recently financed SME subprojects (about US$15,000), the project
could result in the creation of as many as 62,500 jobs (excluding permanent
working capital, financial strengthening and other AP-III operations). Some
75% of the loan is expected to go to SME and the balance to larger
enterprises. Based on recent AP-III lending some 80% of loans would be for
industry, 10% commerce and 10% services.
Loan Repayment
5.12      There are expected to be some 2,200 subloans, through 59 financial
intermediaries. This would make the use of a composite amortization schedule
impractical and BNDES has requested a fixed amortization schedule. The
proposed loan would, therefore, have a fixed 15-year maturity including 3
years grace. Portions of the subloans repaid but not immediately due BACEN
as agent for the Government would be rolled over by BNDES. Recommitments
would not be subject to Bank approval.
6/   Provided they do not belong to a group with equity above one million
ORTN.



Subloan Approval Trocedures
5.13      As described in para 3.37, AP-III sets free limits for the finan-
cial agents depending upon their experience and the quality of their project
evaluations.  For AP-IIl subloanis to the more experienced SDBs, the Bank
would set a somewhat higher free limilt of 2253000 ORTN (about 13S$2.5 mil-
lion), and for the other SDBs and all. IBs .l509GG0 ORTN (about US$1.7 mil-
lion).  Based on past experience the Bank would have to review an estimated
24 projects over  h_ commitment period or an average or one per nmnth   The
Bank would carry out subproject reviews simultaneously with BNDES to assure
speedy approva- l-n addition, the Bank would conduct ex-post reviews of
SDB's appraisals anld AP-111's subpro'ect reviews during supervision missions.
5.14      For subprojeicts above the Bank's free limits the Bank would
authorize subloans on the basis of the SDBs and IBs appraisals and the
analysis by AP-III (including ERR and FRR calculations).  For subloans below
the Bank's free limit but above 150).000 ORTN in the case of the more
experienced SDBs and above 100,000 ORTN for the others, the Bank would
receive a project summary and a copy of AP-III's own subproject analysis!
For all subprojects, AP-ITI would provide data for the Bank's Subproject Data
System.
Procurement
5.15      Procurement for subprojects would be in accordance with standard
practice for loans to DFCs and would follow normal commercial practice of
private sector enterprises, the beneficiaries of the proposed loan. Although
Lhe size of some of the largest investments to be financed might be consid-
ered suitable for ICB in many countries, it is not proposed in this project.
Some 75% of the loan would be for SINE, the average subloan to which would be
only US$100,000.  Loans to large enterprises would only be about US$2 million
and in exceptional cases up to a maximum of $2e8 million.  The loan would
finance the indirect foreilgn exchange costs of subprojects and would finance
direct imports only in a few cases, and not necessarily for the larger
projects.  Most equipment would be financed not -with Bank resources, but
through FINAME, so that Bank resources would finance principally civil works
and working capital.  Moreover, the Brazilian construction and capital goods
industries are highly developed and there is a significant foreign.
participation in these industries, with juist about every major foreigr.
equipment manufacturer present or represented in Brazil. It is also Bank
policy to give Brazilian contractors and suppliers a 15% preference over
foreign suppliers. As a resu'lt, few, if any, foreign contractors would bid
on subprojects (normally foreign contractors are interested in only very
large civil works or equipment contracts).  To require ICB beyond the
considerable bidding already done by private sector investors, particularly
the larger and more sophisticated investors, would only add to the cost of
project financing and unduly delay project execution.  It would also not be
practicable given the large number of intermediaries and final benefi-
ciaries. Procurement procedures of the SDBs (para 4.07) and review proce-
dures of AP-III are considered satisfactory. The studies included in the



- 47 -
project would be carried out in accordance with terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Bank and with the assistance of consultants or institutions with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursement
5.16      Bank disbursements would be for 50% of the subloan disbursements of
AP-III for eligible subprojects involving fixed assets and related working
capital and 12.5% of AP-II subloan disbursements for eligible subprojects
involving permanent working capital only. Expenditures made not more than
180 days prior to Bank receipt of the corresponding approval or authorization
requests, but in no case for expenditures made prior to loan signing would be
eligible for disbursement. Bank disbursements would be made against state-
ments of expenditure prepared by AP-III and certified by BNDESt Resources
Department. The current procedure is for project beneficiaries to retain
documentation supporting project expenditures which is reviewed by staff of
the financial agent before loan disbursements are made.  Financial agents in
turn maintain a list of such documentation which is reviewed by AP-III staff
during their field visits to assure that they support project expenditures.
AP-III staff also make sample visits to project beneficiaries to check the
original documentation. BNDES internal auditors check to see that these
procedures are actually carried out. As part of the audit covenant (para
3.29), BNDES should agree that its independent auditor will, as part of its
annual audit of BNDES accounts, review the internal controls and procedures
involved in the preparation of the statements of expenditure, and perform
tests of the procedures as may be required to give an opinion as to whether
they can be fairly relied upon to support applications for reimbursement.
AP-III, as part of its Plan of Action, will attempt to get similar opinions
from the SDBs.
5.17      In order to reduce the interval during which BNDES would finance
the Bank's share of subloans with its own resources, a Special Account would
be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up to US$15.0
million. BNDES may request the Bank to make advance payments in dollars from
the loan account into this Special Account. Withdrawals in cruzeiros from
the Special Account would be made on the basis of the withdrawal applications
forwarded to the Central Bank. Conversion from dollars into cruzeiros would
be made at the rate of exchange that prevailed on the date each payment is
made by BNDES. The Central Bank would send the withdrawal applications to
the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account. The Special
Account would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Assurances on these matters would be sought during negotiations.
5.18      Because the loan would finance AP-III's 1983/84 program, the Bank
loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1985 and disbursed by
mid-1986 as some 70% of AP-II subloans are disbursed within a year of
approval. The final date for submission of approval requests would be June
30, 1985 and the closing date December 31, 1986. An estimated schedule of
disbursements for the proposed loan is shown in Annex 5, T-19. The schedule
for this project does not conform to the composite disbursement schedule for
DFC projects but reflects the more rapid pace of disbursements experienced by
AP-III.



- 48 -
C. Project Benefits and Risks
5.19      The proposed project is expected to make a significant contribution
to the availability of term credit, which has been in extremely short supply
recently, to finance new investments and to strengthen the financial
structure of SME. It is expected to result in the creation of up to 62,500
jobs at an average cost of US$15,000 per job and to contribute to a
strengthening of the system of development banks throughout Brazil. There
are basically three risks associated with the project. The first is that
demand for AP-III resources will not develop as forecast and the loan will be
slow in disbursing. The AP-III lending forecasts are considered to reflect a
conservative recovery of demand for funds. However, the forecasts are based
on a lending target of 75% of resources for SME. To the extent demand by SME
does not develop lending to larger enterprises can be expanded in order to
meet AP-III lending targets.
5.20      Another risk is that Government will reintroduce subsidized lending
through BNDES to stimulate economic activity. The introduction of such
programs was the main reason the first development banking project, Loan
1206-BR, was not a success and that some $53.8 million of the $85 million
loan was cancelled (para 5.03). It is not considered likely that this will
occur again. The Government now considers that subsidized lending was a
principal cause of the very high fates of inflation in recent years and is
trying to phase them out.
5.21      A related problem is the Government's policy in making adjustments
in the ORTN index to fully reflect inflation. Failure to do so can also lead
to subsidized lending because financial instruments, including BNDES sub-
loans, are denominated in ORTN. It is current policy to adjust the ORTN
Index to fully reflect inflation, although, because of the formula used for
calculating adjustments, they lag current inflation rates by a few months
(Annex 4). The Bank would continue to review these adjustments to assure
that they continue to reflect past inflation reasonably so that interest
rates to final beneficiaries of AP-III subloans would be positive.  If the
accumulated adjustments in the ORTN index for the preceding 12 months fall
behind the adjustments which should have been made during the same 12-month
period to fully reflect past inflation by the difference between the average
of AP-III's highest and lowest interest rates for three successive months,
commitments of new loans would be suspended.  If the adjustments continued to
fall behind inflation by the maximum interest rate on subloans to the point
where onlending rates to beneficiaries became negative, loan disbursements
would be suspended.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was obtained and understanding
reached on the following matters:



- 49 -
(a) With the Government on:
(i)  A general statement of its industrial and trade policies
(para 1.24);
(ii)  Arrangements for making the loan available by the Government
to BNDES including the onlending terms (para 5.04); and
(iii)  Arrangements for establishing a Special Account in the
Central Bank, for making disbursements and replenishments
and for auditing the Special Account (para 5.17).
(b) With BNDES on:
(i)  The contents of a consolidated statement of policies and
procedures for AP-III/POC, including the onlending terms and
conditions for subloans and periodic revisions in
AP-III/POC's lending rates to reflect market conditions,
including possible changes to reflect semi-annual revisions
in the Bank's lending rate (paras 3.32 and 5.05);
(ii)  AP-III's Plan of Action for upgrading the Development Banks
(para 4.24);
(iii)  Free limits and approval procedures for subloans (paras 5.13
and 5.14);
(iv)  Disbursement procedures and percentages financed (para
5.16);
(v)  External audit arrangements including arrangements for
auditing Statements of Expenditure (para 5.16);
(vi)  Arrangements for replenishing and making disbursements from
the Special Account to be established in the Central Bank
(para 5.17);
(vii)  Mechanism for suspending subloan commitments and
disbursements if ORTN adjustments fail to adequately
reflect inflation (para 5.21); and
(viii) Studies which would be carried out in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.15).
6.02      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(i)  Approval by BNDES of AP-III/POC's Consolidated Statement
of Policies and Procedures (para 3.32); and
(ii)  Arrangement between the Government and BNDES acceptable
to the Bank for making loan proceeds available to BNDES
(para 5.04).



,0@3      With the above agreemenits, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$220 million to the Federative Republic
of Brazil on the terms and conditions shown in Chapter V.



ANNEX I
BANGO   CIONAL  O _IESENUELUIMIENO10 ECOVUSSIUC E SO IAL
C,RGANIZATIOND USAKT
COUNCIL OF FISCAL. COUNCIL 
BANT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
U ESIDENT
I NTERNAL_
AUDIT
TEUIIVICAI
_~~~    ~       ~~~~~~~~~ 00 _ 5 _ ONEL
[ADfISOR ON SECURITY
AD UNPOOR{ATIOO
IFINANCIAL           |            |DE7RMN  O' 
DEPATMENT                        SUSTE                                  - - DRECTOR
-_I-1                                                          AENIND STRATION  REA I
___IMASAE AR2ARKETCOORDINATINC
rODPEOTNTEODUNTI         |DEPMATMENT OP                    RERAUMN RESOURCES|                         UNIT
RE        J            DONDOTIC RGSOERCES               DEPARTMENT
COORDINATING
O UNIT
CAPETAL SANAICETSR
DEPARTHENT                           _
DEPARTMENT OF
I                        I~~~~~~DUDRMN  OFDEPARTMENT OFP                                PL.ANNING AREA 
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~CRIA  EN ^t1D,,5,M.E;                       IPRIOUITSPEINENEN 
PROJECT  AREA I           |DEPARTMENT EF                     NEARED DEPARTMENTt                   COOSDINATIENG 
DEPIARTMENT UP
IENETALLDRGY AND ALCNIUONI
DRCTURDIDIIA
DEPARTMENT OP                    DEPARTEDNT                        SUPERINT E N
I O I I| ARTMENT OF TRAERATIONSjDI
SEPIUNTEI T                                              LEA ADVSOR CAPNITGOD
~~OPERA-IIONI: ~         UNIOPERATION
P| UJECT AREA E1 I      iIRESTESENT NAJECSSIEPSNATION   I
I LGLCOORDENANTIiI    I       EET  ATNRPRESIENTATO  IN
RET  I        || OELPENTGALS                    TADORTEAST 
DIRECTOR         |       DEPARTMENT DR SOCIAL             DEPARTMENT OP
P LHFROJECT AREA DOH    (         NDITA.TINAL O NA                                                         G
EVALUATION OPSOCIAL     ERAT           IONS W
| O A |DEPARTMENT EDO RELATIONSFAE     ENTATISNNRN
AR| A POE                                                DEPERTMET DARTE  |N LO
IFRELATIONS           |          _    _R __P
NIP|UDNPARTENT              ADIORY GOOD_ON
JUDICIAL ASS LEGUSLATIDEO
CI      RINTN               VOTUDUSO                                                    ROUC10|
DR-PI      NURDES
LURID
SIpEtRRb- 1982



ANNI X 2
- 52 -
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPENT BANKING PROJECT
Description of Principal Operations of BNDES Project Area III
Program                   Financing small and       Financing small and       Financing large                  Strengthening agents
medium enterprises       medium enterprises        enterprises
Purpose                   Financing of fixed        Financing of per-         Financing of fixed               Financial collaborat.on
assets and permanent    manent working             assets and perman-               with states to increz.se
working capital or       capital only              ent working capital              capital of development
financial strength-                                or financial strength-           banks
ening                                              ening
Benefits 1/               Private national companies with fixed assets    Private national companies           State development banks
including the fixed investment to be financed                                       and commercial banks with
upto 500,000 ORTN not belonging to an economic                                      development portfolios
group with net assets above one million ORTN
Agent                     Development and investment banks                    Development and                  None (direct operatio:s)
investment banks
Financial charges (%)
Region 2/                1   II   III              I     II   III           I    II    III                    I        II
BNDES' remuneration    2.0  5.0  7.5              5.5   8.0  10.0          7.0   8.5   9.5                   8.0      10.0
Agent's spread          4.0  3.0  2.5             3.0   2.5   2.0          3.0   2.5   2.5                     -        -
Cost to beneficiary    6.0  8.0 10.0              8.5  10.5  12.0         10.0  11.0  12.0                    8.0     10.0
BNDES System
Participation limit (%) 80   70   60               80    70    60           50    50    50
Commitment fee (%)             0.1                        0.1                       0.1                              0.1
Monetary correction           ORIN                       nRTN                 70% ORTN                              nRTN
30% US$
Repayment period
Total                   up to 10 years            up to 5 years            up to 10 years                   op to 6 years
Grace period            up to  3 years            up to 2 years            up to 3 years
Guarantees
(% of operation)             130                        130                      130                        Irrevocable guarantee of
state
1/  Beneficiaries can be private national companies or shareholders of such
companies who use loan proceeds to increase capital in the enterprise which is
used to finance the investment project.
2/  Region  I:  Amazonas, Para, Acre, Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia, Espirito Santo, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul,
Goias, Territories and region of Minas Gerais included in Poligono dos Secas.
Region Il:  Rio Grande do Sul,Santa Catarina, Parana, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Distrito Federal.
Region III: Sao Paulo.
Source: BNDES
LCPII
September 1982



BRAZIL
SlAiN APPrsALw   IP=
stake and Iingiinia DOW-UP Danks
Year Establish". Staff Wa  Om.*dp
As of December 31, 1981
YEAR                                   S T A F F                                      OWNERSHIP (S)
ESTABLISHED  Staff                              i~~~Tecnical  PSurt.     ubi
BANKs           ~         ~                    _       ESTABLISHED   Total        Staff      Directors  Officers    Staff    Per               Public    Private
~~~~~~~~~oard                                                                                    Priat
STATE DEVELOPMENT BANKS
Banco de Desenv.do Est.do Maranhao S.A.-BDM                  1970           141          8          3            22         30           78      99,8767       0,1233
Bmnco de Desenv.do Ceara S.A.-BANDECE                        1969           135          4          5             7         61            58     99,18         1,2
Banco de Desenv.do Rio Grande do Norte S.A.-BDRN             1970           137          3          3            22         34           75      99,000.       1,000
Banco de Desenv.do Est.da Bahia S.A.-DESENBANCO              1966          391          12          5            41        140          193      87,38       12,62
Banco de Desenv.do Espirito Santo S.A.-BANDES                1969           288          7          4            19         90          168      99,68        0,32
Banco de Desenv.de Minas Gerais - BDMG                       1962           586          9          6            68        197          306    100,0             -
Banco de Desenv.do Est.do Rio de Janeiro S.A.-BD-RIO    1969                290          9          6            24         89           162    100,0
Banco de Desenv.do Est.de Sao Paulo S.A.-BADESP              1970          468          10          7            60        140          251      99,998423   0,001577
Banco de Desenv.do Parana S.A.-BADEP                         1962           516         29          5            66        218           198    100,0            -
Banco de Desenv.do Est.de Santa Catarina S.A.-BADESC         1973           179          5          4            38         57           75      99,9805       0,0195
Banco de Desenv.do Est.do Rio Gr.do Sul S.A.-BADESUL         1973           189          7          3            25         64           90      99,99998    0,00002
Banco de Desenv.do Est.de Goias S.A.-BD-GOIAS                1976           176          9          5             6         72           84      99,99         0,01
Banco Regional de Desenv.do Extremo Sul - BRDE               1961           714          7          7            96        212          392    100,0             -
STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS
Banco do Est.do Acre S.A.-BANACRE                            1964          368           7          4            83          8          266      92,09         7,91
Banco do Est.do Amazonas S.A.-BEA                            1957        1 114           7          4           171         58          874      69,11       30,89
Banco de Roraima S.A.-BANRORAIMA                             1968           239         11          3            77          9          139      91,69        8,31
Banco do Est. do Para S.A.-BANPARA                           1961           979         12          4            37         32          894      82,4         17,6
Banco do Est. do PiauT S.A.-BEP                              1959          805           5          5            60         65          670      75,76       24,24
Banco do Est.da Paralba S.A.-PARAIBAN                        1951           914          5          4            85         45          775      96,0          4,0
Banco do Est. de Pernambuco S.A.-BANDEPE                     1960        4 711          10          6           850        264        3 581      91,53         8,47
Banco do Est. de Alagoas S.A.-PRODUBAN                       1963           711          3          5           109         20          574      94,74         5,26
Banco do Est.de Sergipe S.A.-BANESE                          1962           729          6          5           145         17          556      86,50        13,50
Banco Regional de Brasilia S.A.-BRB                          1966        1 154           9          6            16         37        1 086      96,842        3,158
Banco do Est.de Mato Grosso S.A.-BEMAT                       1964           702          7          4            67          5          619      94,74         5,26
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
Banco da Amazonia S.A.-BASA                                  1966        3 718           7          6           126        293        3 286      51,0         49,0
Banco do Nordeste do Brasil S.A.-BNB                         1952        5 676           8          5         1 066        696        3 901      48,58        51,42
SOURCE: Associag5o Brasileira de Bancos de Desenvolvimento - ABDE
LCPI1
September 1982



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Development Departments of the
State Commercial Banks Staff
As of December 31, 1981
SToAFF   Directors  OfficersTechnical    Support
TANKS                                                                                oStaff                   Personnel
Banco do Estado do Acre S.A. - BANACRE                             43            1           8           4           30
Banco do Estado do Amazonas S.A. - BEA                             36            1          3            8           24
Banco de Roraima S.A. - BANRORAIMA                                 17            1          3            3           10
Banco do Estado do Para S.A. - BANPARA                             68           1           2            7           58
Banco do Estado do Piaui S.A. - BEP                                50           1           4           16           29
Banco do Estado da Paralba S.A.- PARAIBAN                          64           2           3           22           37                 >
Banco do Estado de Pernambuco S.A. - BANDEPE                      281           2          49          66           164
Banco do Estado de Alagoas S.A. - PRODUBAN                         54           1          10           13           30
Banco do Estado de Sergipe S.A. - BANESE                           70           1          17          11            41
Banco do Estado de Mato Grosso S.A. - BEMAT                        21           2           2            5           12
Banco Regional de Brasilia S.A. - BRB                              81           1           3           15           62
SOURCE: AssociaSao Brasileira de Bancos de Desenvolvimento - ABUE
LCPI1
Septemiber 1982



ANNEX 4
- 55 -
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Formula for Adjusting ORTN Index
ORTNt =  ORTNt 1  (0.8 I media  +  0.20 I est)
IPAt-2  +  IPAt-3  +  IPAt-4
where I media =
IPAt-3 +  IPAt-4  +  IPAt-5
ORTNt = value in cruzeiros of ORTN in month t
IPA    =  wholesale price index for internal products excluding
accidental factors (Fundo Getulio Vargas)
I media = Average inflation
I est. = Estimated inflation
If actual monthly inflation rates were used for IPAt-2' IPAt-3,
etc. and no allowance was made for estimated inflation, the index
would fully reflect inflation with a lag of three months.
LCPII
September 1982



BRAZTL
STAFF APPRAISAL. REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Selected Financial Assets - Financial System and Treasury Issues
Balancees at the End nf the Year
(Cr$ billionn)
1965               1975                1976                 1977                 1978                1979                   1980                   1981
Amonunt  7         Amonunt   %          Amnunt   %          Amonunt   %          Amnunt   %          Amonunt   7            A-nount   Z            Amount   2
Monetary Assets                     9.4   87.0       179.3    39.7        248.3    37.6       342.3    34.7        431       32.2      836.0    33.6        1,422.8    34.0        2,473.5    24.7
Currency held by the public         1.7   15.7        31.0       6.8       46.2      7.0       65.2       6.6       94.1      6.3      167.3       6.7        290.7       6.7        500.5      5.0
Demand depnsits                     7.7   71.3       148.3    32.9        202.1    30.6       277.1    28.1        389.0    25.9       668.7    26.9        1,132.1    27.0        1,973.0     19.7
Non-Monetary Assets                 1.4   13.0       271.9    60.2        412.4    62.4       642.9    65.3   1,014.6    67.7   1,654.0    66.4             2,762.7    66.0        7,537.7   - 75.3
Savings deposits                     -       -        55.2    12.2        107.5    16.3       177.2    18.0        288.6     19.3      523.4    21.0          984.7    23.5        2,460.7   '24.6
Fixed time depnsits                 0.3    2.8        54.5    12.0         73.1    11.1       133.0    13.5        226.4     15.1      409.6    16.4          639.2     15.2       1,491.4    14.9
Bills of exchange                   0.7    6.5        55.8    12.4         68.3    10.3        81.5       8.3      130.9      8.7      186.6       7.5        274.5      6.5         471.3      4.7
Honusing bonds                       -                 8.9       1.9        9.7      1.5        10.8      1.0       10.9      0.7        12.9      0.5         16.0      0.4          26.4      0.3
Federal bonds                       0.4    3.7        97.5    21.6        153.8    23.2       240.4    24.4        357.8    23.9       521.5    20.9          848.3    20.3        3,087.9    30.8
TOTAL                                                451.2   100.0        660.7   100.0       985.2   100.0   1,497.7   100.0   2,490.0   100.0             4,185.5   100.0    10,011.2   100.0
Snurce: Banco Central dn Brasil, Boletin Mensal.
LCPII1
September 1982



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BAIKING PROJECT
L.a.s to the Private Str by Final Lender
Balance at Lhe End cf the Year
(Cr$ Millios)
1975                1976                 1977                 1978                 1979                 1980                    1981
Amount                         Z Amount %  Amount                         Z Amount             Z Amount            Y Amount     Amount      Z
1.  Banco do Brasil                                132,728   22.9       214,115   23.4       318,446   23.0      437,896   20.9      720,726   20.9        1,211,180   20.3      2,025,259   16.4
2.  Banco Co-erciales                               164,550   28.4      247,232   27.0       376,667   27.3      591,515   28.3   1,009,666   29.3         1,736,365   29.1       3,555,900   28.8
- Public                                        58,958   10.2        90,808    9.9      139.872   10.1       216,182   10.3      371,429   10.8         643,739   10.8        1,309,670    10.6
- Private                                      105,592   18.2       156,424   17.1      236,795   17.2       375,333   18.0      638,237    18.5      1,092,626    18.3      2,246,230    18.2
3.  Financieras                                     60,113   10.4        77,511   8.5         98,972   7.2       159,696   7.6        23&,091    6.9         330,438    5.5         583,212    4.7
- Public                                         3,442    0.6         5,151   0.6          7,618   0.6        11,907   0.6         16,196    0.5          22,271    0.4          38,587    0.3
- Private                                       56,671    9.8        72,360   7.9        91,552   6.6        147,786   7.0        221,895    6.4         308,167    5.1         544,625    4.4
4.  Bancos do Investine,,tos                        63,182   10.9        91,905  10.0        142,264  10.3       212,906  10.2        367,462   10.6         609,916   10.2       1,381,330    11.2
- Public                                         2,349    0.4         2,934   0.3          2,676   0.2         5,333   0,3         11,026    0.3          17,124    0.3          37,545    0.3
- Private                                       60,833   10.5        88,971   0.7        139,588  10.1       207,573   9.9        356,436   10.3         592,792    9.9       1,343,785    10.9
5.  Banco Nacional de Uabitacao                      11.799    2.0       17,584   1.9         29,017   2.1        48,126   2.3         84,128    2.4         179,955    3.0         460,402    3.7
6.  Sociedades do Crediton InTobiliarios             34,213    5.6       55,126   6.0         88,878   6.4       141,856   6.8        238,039    6.9         462,125     7.8      1,077.386    8.7
- Public                                         2,479    0.4         2,927   0.3          5,966   0.4         9,726   0.5         15,104    0.4          26,503    0.4          66,165    0.5
- Private                                       31,734    5.2        54,265   5.7        88,494   6.0        132,130   6.3        222,935    6.5         435,622     7.4      1,011,221    8.2
7.  Assuciacao de Poupania e Emprestimos              8,053    1.4       15,684   1.7         28,245   2.0        46,869   2.2         82,457    2.4         157,800    2.6         370,839    3.0
8.  Caia Econo.ica Federal                          40,806    7.1       72.266   7.9        109,358   7.9       160,556   7.7        240,416     7.0        474,814    8.0       1,100,623    8.9
9.  Caixa Economica Estadual                         14.170    2.4       30,335   3.3         45,608   3.3        69,451   3.3        108,499   3.1          185,353    3.1         425,232    3.5
10.  Banco Nacional de Deaenu.. Economico             31,397    5.4       57,181   6.3         90,791   6.6       143,861   6.9        234,484   6.8          390,510    6.5         831,137    6.8
11.  Banoos Estaduales de Desenuviniento              14,292    2.5       27,883   3.1         44,506   3.2        67,542   3.2        109,802   3.2          192,447    3,2         429,290    3.5
12.  Programa de Integracao Social                     4,565    0.8        6,275   0.7          7,057   0.5          8,289   0.4        10,045   0.3           12,699    0.2          23,505    0.2
13.  Banco Nacional de Credito Cooperativo             1,374    0.2         2,202   0.2         2,826   0.2          3,866   0.2         7,636   0.2           19.155    0.3          70,164    0.6
TOTAL                                          581,242  100.0       915,299 100.0    1,382,635 100.0    2,092,326 100.0    3,451,451 100.0             5,962,757   100.0    12,334,279  100.0
Public Institutions                            318,359   54.8       529,661  57.9        803,741  58.1    1,182,635  56.5    1,929,491  55.9           3,375,750   56.7       6,817,579   55.3
Private Institution-                           262,883   45.2       385,638  42.1        578,894  41.9       909,691  43.5    1,521,960  44.1          2,587,007   43.3       5,516,700   44.7
Source:  Banco Central do Brasil, Boletin Mensual                                                                                                                                                          . .
LCPI1                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
September 1982



ANNEX 5
- 58 -                                                  TAhle 3
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Summary of Statistics of BNDES0perations 1975 - 1981
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    :1.981
ApEpovals (Cr$ Billions)
BNDES                                                   26.3    35.5    15.6    34.2    67.5   117.4   461.9
FINAME                                                   8.5    26.2    27.2   112.6    54.4   172.3   2:1.1
EMBRAMEC                                                 0.3      1.2      0.3     0.7      2.3      3.6      7.5
FIBASE                                                   0.4      2.5      1.8     4.3      8.2      6.5      9.8
IBRASA                                                   0.4      0.8      0.5     1.7      3.6      6.1     6.0
35.9    66.2    45.4   153.5   136.0   305 9   716.3
Figures in 1981 Cr$                                    615.6   823.2   396.2   958.1   533.9   620.0   716.3
Disbursements
BNDES                                                   16.9    20.2    28.6    39.7    56.2    88.4   149.7
FINAME                                                   4.4    10.4    18.0    28.2    43.6    66.9   116.8
EMBRAMEC                                                 0.1      0.6      0.6      1.3     2.0      3.1      4.4
FIBASE                                                   0.6      0.9      1.7     4.1      7.3    12.2    17.3
IBRASA                                                   0.4      0.6      0.5     0.8      2.7      4.9      4.4
22,4    32.7    49.4    74.1   111.9   175.5   29'2.6
Figures in 1981 Cr$                                    384.1   406.6   431.1   462.5   439.3   355.7   292.6
Guarantee Operations (in millions of Cr$ or US$)
In Cr$                                                  45       32     178       47      625    5003    2029'
In foreign exchange                                    431.0   575.4   467.3   513.4   285.6   681.9   271.0
Share of Approved Operations to Public and Private
Enterprises (%) of BNDESSystem
Private                                                 77.3    80.8    79.2    85.7    64.5    32.0    23.2
Public and mixed                                        22.7    19.2    20.8    14.3    35.5    68.0    76.8
Approvals according to types of operations of
BNDESSystem (Cr$ Billions)
Direct loans                                            21.3    31.2    11.2    25.4    45.6    83.3   416.6
Loans to shareholders                                     -        -       0.4      0.9     5.3      3.6      7.0
Share participations                                     1.7      1.9      2.3      4.4     8.1    11.9    16.1
Underwriting                                              -        -        -        -      1.4      3.2      3.8
23.0    33.1    13.9    30.7    60.4   102.0   443.9
Indirect loans                                          12.9    33.1    29.5   116.5    63.4   184.8   264.8
Loans to shareholders                                     -        -       2.0      6.3    12.2    17.8       7.1
Capitalization of companies                               -        -        -        -       -       1.3      0.5
12.9    33.1    31.5   122.8    75.6   203.9   272.4
35.9    66.2    45.4   153.5   136.0   305.9   716.3
Source: BNDES
LCPI1
September 1982



- 59 -                          ANNEX 5
Table 4
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
BNDES System
Cash Flow
(Billions of Cr$)
1979    1980    1981    1982
(Budget)
Sources of funds
Internal generation
Repayments on loans                          48.0    82.0   169.0   276.3
Government payments on subsidized
loans                                       4.9    12.4    10.8    20.0
Sale of securities                            3.0     9.6      0.6     0.9
Other                                         5.0    10.2    18.6    21.9
60.9   114.2   199.0   319.1
PIS/PASEP transfers                            40.9    59.6   117.2   160.2
Loans and grants from government
Central Bank                                  8.0    12.8    21.2       -
BNH                                           2.4      3.3     0.4     1.0
10.4    16.1    21.6      1.0
Earmarked funds                                 1.8      9.5    20.4    66.7 a/
External loans                                 20.7    31.6    37.1   147.7
134.7   231.0   395.3   694.7
Applications
Disbursements on loans and investments        111.1   175.5   292.7   515.7
Debt service
Local                                         8.7    17.1    26.0    28.7
Foreign                                      10.4    30.4    61.6   125.9
19.1    47.5    87.6   154.6
Administrative expenses                         2.4      4.7     9.5    18.5
Other                                           2.7      3.7     1.9      5.9
5.1     8.4    11.4    24.4
136.0   231.4
136.0   231.4   391.7   694.7
Net change in ceah                               (1.3)    0.4      3.6       -
Cash and b.glnning                                2.6      1.3     9j       4.5
Cash at and of period                             1.3      0.9     4.5      4.5
a/  CNE/MTC/PROALCOOL      42.0
CNE/MIC/CONSERVE       18.0
CND/MME/PROCARVAO      -6.7
66.7
Source: BNDES
LCPI1
September 1982



ANNEX 5
- 60 -                            Table 5
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
BNDES Balance Sheets
(Excluding PIS/PASEP) a/
(Millions of Cr$)
-------------December 31          
1977     1978      1979      1980     1981
Assets
Circulating and Long-Term Assets
Cash and banks                                262      380       344       183      740
Government Securities                      4,187    7,795    6,398       -
Loans and financings (net)                79,063  116,982  184,771  272,533  460,14G,8
Due from Federal Government                 3,206    4,527   11,546   28,659  100,2-7
Other                                         495    1,464       862    2,111   _82t: 0
87,213  131,148  203,921  303,486  569,36.5
Permanent Assets
Investments in Controller,
Affiliated and other Companies          22,907   47,336   73,370  121,173  307,8';7
Fixed Assets (net)                            611    1,646    3,338    6,863   13,351
23,518   48,982   76,708  128,036  321,24-8
Deferred Expenses                               5       14   21,562   26,013   382j,0
Total Assets                        110,736  180,144  302,191  457,835  928,72,'3
Liabilities and Capital
Deposits                                    2,570    6,313    8,168    4,565   10,01.2
Long-Term Debt
Domestic                                 39,706   55,213   78,346  102,461  164,922
Foreign                                  17,807   36,886   90,533  160,575  3j29,15
57,513   92,099  168,879  263,036  493,937
Other Obligations                          1,948    4,097  _8221   11,327   25,920
62,031  102,509  185,268  278,928  529,869
Social Capital                            48,705   77,635  116,923  1784 907  398,904
Total Liabilities and Capital       110,736  180,144  302,191  457,835  928>773
a/   PIS/PASEP and other administered funds.
Source: BNDES
LCPI1
September 1982



- A1 -                    ANNEX 5
BRAZIL                      Table 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
BNDES Income Statements
(Millions of Cr$)
1978    1979      1980      1981
Operating Revenues
Loans financings, guarantess, and financial application
Interest and commissions                                       7,659  11,870   16,676   34,660
Monetary correction                                           30,876  56,665   95,716  254,212
Exchange rate adjustments                                       -        -         -      13,825
38,535  68,535  112,392  302,157
Investments
Participation in Social Capital of controlled and
affiliated companies                                          1,209    -         3,795    4,078
Dividends                                                         418     100       196    4,135
Monetary correction on investments and other
permanent assets                                             10,624  25,376   51,221  157,876
12,251  25,476   55,212  166,089
50,786  94,011  167,604  468,246
Operating Expenses
Financial
Interest and commissions                                       5,513  11,287   23,377   53,408
Monetary correction                                            7,739  15,133   28,714   66,320
Exchange rate adjustments                                      9,334  21,178   51,293  148,432
22,586  47,598  103,384  268,160
Amortization of d8ferred foreign exchange losses                -        -        5,477    9,491
Provision for potential loan and investment losses               (929)  4,263    3,967    1,560
Monetary correction on Social Capital                         19,232  36,837   59,857  174,379
40,889  88,698  172,685  453,590
Administrative expenses                                        1,395   1,936    3,696    8,268
Special contribution to employees pension fund                 2,522    -          -        -
Other expenses                                                   140      122       232       533
44,946  90,756  176,613  462,391
Net operating income (loss)                                       5,840   3,255   (9,009)   5,855
Non-operating income (expense)                                     (182)    424   10,225       (166)
5,658   3,679    1,216    5,689
Income Taxes                                                     1,601   3,100       -         -
Net Income                                                       4,057      579    1,216    5,689
Source: 3NDES
LCPII
September 1982



,la=u 5
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVEZOPM1NT BANKIIG PROJECT
BNDE Balance Sheets
As of December 31, 1976 to 1981
(millionsa of ctugrant Cr$)
1975         111978 7                                            9           1981
C4sh ald Banks                                      285.9        149.3        261,7         380          344          183          741
Marketable snourities                             1,000.0        552,9           _                       538           -         4,322
Loans outstaniding                              46,522.3    88,571,i   148,665.0    241,013        420,630      725,346   1,547,411
Les9 allowance for ponsible lorsses             -            ,L-" Al)   .549)    ,.,,Q  )            30       -(168)
46,522.3    87,454.9   147,630,1    240,913        420,500      723,178   1,543,776
Amounts due from Federal Governent                    -         972.1      3,206.1       9,431       26,446       56,721     189,842
Gavernment aad other securities                   5,922.7      7,521.3      8,607,3      11,610        8,B86        1,678
Other                                            1,j,,j.0      _47,1          494.6       3,853        5,134        9245 
55,151.9    96,907,7   160,199.8    266,187        461,848      791,005   1,747,297
Permanent Capital
Investments in controlled and
affiliated companies                            7,292.5    14,286.8    25,260.3        47,336       73,370     121,173      307,897
Fixed assets (net)                                  123.4        229.7        611.4       1,646        3,339        6,863       13.351
7,415.9    14,516.5    25,871.7       48,982       76,709      128,036      321,248
Deferted charges                                      3.1          4.4          5.9          14       21.562      26,013       38.160
7,419.0    14,520.9    25,877.6       48,996       98,271      154,049      359,408
Total assets                         62,570.9   1             186. 077,4    315,183 ,  9                        2,106.705
Liabilities and Capital
Circulating and long term
Deposits                                          1,558.9      2,581.9      2,570.7       6,313        8,168       4,565       10,012
Loans fram financial institutions
Local                                          15,524.5    26,054.2    39,705.7        55,213       78,346     102,461      164,922
Foreign                                         5.400.7      9,259.2    17,807.2       36.886       90,533     160.575      329,015
20,925.2    35,313.4    57,512.9       92,099      168,879      263,036      493,937
Resources administered for the Goverment
PIS - PASEP                                    14,244.2    37,341.6    75,249.1    134,827        257,631      483,130   1,154,871
Other                                              19.0          2.1         90.5         212          297          306      23.,061
14,263.2    37,343.7    75,339.6    135,039        257,928      483,436   1,177,932
Other obligations                                   965.9      1,146.1      1,949.4       4,097        8.,221      15110        25.920
37,713.2    76,385.1   137,372.6    237,548        443,196      766,147   1,707,801
Social capital
Capital                                          13,250.0    27,000.0    40,000.0        60,000       60,000       90,000     202,580
Reserves                                         11,607.7      8,043.5      8,704.8      17,635       56,923      88,907      196,324
24,857.7    35,043.5    48,704.8       77,635      116,923      178,907      398,904
Total Liabilities and Capital        62,570.9   111,428.6   187,077.4    315.183         560,119      945_054   2,106.705
Source: BNDES
LCPII
Soptember 1982



ANNEX 5
- 63 -                                                  Table 8
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT bANKING PROJECT
BNDESBalance Sheets
As of December 31, 1976 to 1981
(millions of December 31, 1981 Cr$)
US$ million
1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1981
Assets
Circulating and long term assets
Cash and Banks                                        1,899        2,339        2,469        1,433           349          741            5,8
Marketable securities                                 7,034           -            -         2,242           -         4,322            33.8
Loans outstanding                                 1,126,859   1,328,552   1,566,036   1,752,625   1,381,874   1,547,411            12,108.1
Less allowance for possible losses                (14,074)      (9,248)        (650)        (542)      (4.130)      (3.635)         (28.4)
1,112,785   1,319,304   1,565,386   1,752,083   1,377,744   1,543,776            12,079.7
Amounts due from Federal Government                  12,368       28,651       61,280      110,192      108,061      189,842         1,485.5
Government and other securities                      95,691       76,920       75,439       37,025        3,197           -            -
Other                          3.145                               4,420       25036   _              _  17,612   __ 8616               67.3
1,232,922   1,431,634   1,729,610   1,924,367   1,506,963   1,747,297            13,672.1
Permanent assets
Investments in controlled and
affiliated companies                              181,767      225,740      307,577      305,708      230,850      307,897        2,409.2
Fixed assets (net)                                    2,922        5,464    _10695          13,913       13,075       13.351           104.5
184,689      231,204      318,272      319,621      243,925      321,248        2,513.7
Deferred charges                                         56           52           91       89,841       49,558       38,160          298.6
t84,75     ~231,256      318,3        409,462      293,483      359,408        2,812.3
Total assets                                   1,417,667   1,662.890   26047,973   2.333 829   1X800.446   2,1066705             16 484.4
Liabilities and Capital
Circulating and long term
Deposits                                             32,849       22,973       41,020       34,033        8,697       10,012            78.3
Loans from financial institutions
Local                                             331,478      354,832      358,759      326,442      195,202      164,922        1,290.5
Foreign                                           117,802      159,135      239.675      377,221      305.915      329,015      _2,574.4
449,280      513,967      598,434      703,663      501,117      493,937        3,864.9
Resources administered for government
PIS - PASEP                                       475,084      672,467      876,069   1,073,462       920,423   1,154,871         9,036.5
Other                                                  27          809        1.377        1,238          583       23,061          180.5
475,111      673,276      877,446   1,074,700       921,006   1,177,932         9,217.0
Other obligations                                    14.581       17,421       26,622       34,254       28.78        25,920           202.9
971,821   1,227,637   1,543,522   1,846,650   1,459,606   1,707,801            13,363.1
Social capital
Capital                                             343,511      357,462      389,864      250,000      171,461      202,580         1,585.1
Reserves                                            102,335       77,791      114,587      237,179      169,379      196,324        1,536.2
445,846      435,253    _504,451       487,17~9    340,840       398,904        3 121.3
Total liabilities and capital                   1.417,667   1.662.890   2,47,973   2.333,829   1,800,446   2,106,705             16,484.4
Source: BEDES and Bank staff.
LCPI1
September 1982



TaNI4X 3
UCIZ
HAZY   na1PAAL ZI?Mt
8813 8 AP.3I1 0 erating 8t4tibs 1976 to 1981
1976           1977           1978           1979           1980           1981
Number of Operations                                               1,231            978          ;,317          2,548          1,766            5i1
Operations (Cr$ lillions)
Joint Operations Program (POC)
Programa                                                    1,150.3          156.9            10.1         ---            ---            ---
Pacote - Local Currency Financing                           4,323.0        1,886.4        2,047.1        4,836.2        5,063.0        6,438.)
Foreign Currency Financing                           38.0          148.0           95.8          326.4          ---            ---
Prolects                                                      985.3           37.1          317.0          928.2          878.0          181.:)
FINAC (Financing Shareholders)                                 23.1        2,006.9        6,338.3       12,150.1       17,963.0        7,110.3
TOTAL                                                          6,519.7        4,235.3        8.808.3       18,240.9       23,904.0       13,729.:)
Financial Strengthening of Agents                                 281.0          ---         1,275.0        1,845.0           550.0       2,591.:)
Other                                                              49.3           86.4          117.5        1.091.8          ---            498.:)
TOTAL                                                          6,850.0        4,321.7       10,200.8       21,177.7       24,454.0       16,818.:l
Distribution of POC Operations by Institution (%)
State and Regional Development Banks                           75.0           84.8           73.4           75.6           82.3           82.2
Investment Banks                                               25.0           15.2           26.6           24.4           17.7           17.i
TOTAL                                                         100.0          100.0          100.0          100.0          100.0          100.('
Distribution of POC Operations by Regions (%)
Region 1                                                       18.8           26.3           37.4           44.0           43.9           43.8
Region II                                                      55.4           58.2           45.6           39.1           40.8           40.:'
Region III                                                     25.8           15.2           17.0           16.9           15.3           15.S
TOTAL                                                         100.0          100.0          100.0          100.0          100.0          100.10
Operations in USS Millions Equivalent
POC                                                           611            299            487            677            454            147
Others                                                         31              7             78            109             10             34
TOTAL                                                         642            306            565            786            464            181
Disbursements in US$ Million equivalent
POC                                                           404            456            487            608            358            206
Others                                                         57             11             35             47             26             14
TOTAL                                                         461            467            522            655            384            220
Distribution of POC by Sector (%)
Industry                                                                      92             78             67             78             85
Commerce                                                                       7             15             15              9              6
Services                                                                       1              7             18             13              9
TOTAL                                                                        100            100            100            100            100
Distribution of POC by Object of Financing (%)
Fixed Assets and Perasnent Working Capital                                       75             59             53             60             86
Permanent Working Capital Only                                                   15             27             31             22               7
Financial Strengthening                                                          10             14             16              18              7
TOTAL                                                                           100            100            100            100             100
Source:  BNDES
LCPI       1
Septemboer 1982



BR&ZIL
STAFF AP MAISAL RIPOIT
SECOND DUVELOPMNT BANKING PROJECT
State Develop_ent Banks
As t seeoe n, TO  en
1 9 7 4      1 9 7 5      1 9 7 6       1 9 7 7       1 9 7 8      1 9 7 9       1 9 8 0    1 9 8 1
Assets
- Cash                                                    250,5         402,6        573,7      1 199,7       1 155,4       1 741,5      2 144,0    11 242,1
- Loans                                                 8 549,7    15 290,8    29 641,4    49 332,7    76 131,5   123 649,7   226 157,5   547 472,2
. Private Sector Enterprises                       6 609,3    12 247,8    23 768,3    36 472,3    46 35S,4    71 037,7   117 837,5   262 285,6
. Public Sector Enterprises                        1 633,6       2 293,7      4 699,1    10 579,0    22 019,3    42 528,8    93 442,4   256 505,0
-  Other Credits (principally rural)                 306,8         749,3      1 174,0       2 281,4      7 756,8    10 083,2    14 877,6    28 681,6
- Other Assets                                            793,9      1 156,8       1 571,2      2 154,2       4 034,9       3 829,5      6 410,0    18 170,0
'IrAL ASSLTS                                                 9 594,1    16 850,2    31 786,3    52 686,6    81 321,8   129 220,7   234 711,5   576 884,3
Liabilities and Capital
- Deposits                                                369,0         652,3      1 020,1      1 103,2       1 171,7       3 557,3    18 464,3    93 683,3
- Domtiestic Borrowings                                 6 425,7    11 375,2    22 670,9    39 404,3    62 212,4    95 575,7   162 046,8   343 198,6
C Central Bank                                     1 106,4       2 078,2      4 440,1       6 869,3      9 542,0    11 673,0    16 151,8    30 546,0
. RNDE                                             3 332,0       5 546,6      9 619,7    14 940,8       22 382,3    33 337,9    48 758,8    74 141,1
.BNH                                                 395,9         647,9      1 847,2       3 769,7      6 003,5       9 935,0    19 435,0    52 539,2
. CEF                                                440,7         732,0      1 041,0       1 476,8      1 202,6         814,0       1 087,9         619,3
. FINAME                                             766,5       1 707,6      4 650,2    10 286,9    19 064,4    33 557,2    65 219,0   159 532,3
F IINEP                                                 -           -            -             -            992,6      1 545,2       2 001,5      3 183,1
. Other Institutions                                 384,2         662,9      1 072,7       2 060,8      3 025,0       4 713,5       9 392,8    22 637.6
- Foreign Borrowings                                       73,9        108,4         201,8         606,6      1 661,3       3 700,3      8 210,3    38 995,7
- Financial Development Funds                             611,5         893,1      1 702,3      2 739,1       3 915,5       6 458,9    12 654,0    22 851,6
- Other Obligations                                       292,9         560,5        676,1      1 404,8         670,6       1 654,6      2 918,2    11 433,0
'J)1AL LIABlLITIES                                           7 773,0    13 589,5    26 271,2    45 258,0    69 631,5   107 389,5   204 294,2   510 162,2
Deferred Income                                            173,7         134,3        169,3           3,5          12,5         60,1          89,7         468,8
Capital                                                  1 647,4       3 126,4      5 345,8       7 425,1    11 677,8    18 213,8    30 327,6    66 253,3
- Social Capital                                        1 167,9      2 056,4       3 720,6      4 976,8       6 605,8    11 278,6    16 782,9    27 175,9
- Reserves                                                479,5,     1 070,0       1 625,2      2 448,3       5 072,0       6 935,2    13 544,7    39 077,4
1ITA]. LIABILITIES AND CAPITIAL                              9 594,1    16 850,2    31 786,3    52 686,6    81 321,8   129 220,7   234 711,5   576 884,3
Guaranties                                               6 725,5       3 551,7      4 221,2       6 939,9    10 517,5    18 397,3    28 594,1    58 636,8
SoURCTl: Associaaio Brasileira de Bancos de Desenvolvimento.
LCPI1
September 1982



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANIKING PROJECT
State Development Banks
Coneolidated Income and Expense Statements
tor the years 1974 - 1981
(millions of Cr$)
1 9 74    1975    1976   1977   1978  1979' 1980    198  -
OPERATING INCOME                                             1 676,8       2 884,0      6 852,5    10 878,5        19 237,4   37 228,0    66 666,9   226 884,4
Credit Operations                                          1 565,8      2 701,8       6 528,8    10 366,2       17 971,3   35 034,4 i  62 335,5 1 215 455,6
Other                                                        111,0         182,2        323,7        512,3        1 266,1     2 193,6       4 331,4    11 428,S
OPERATING EXPENSES                                           1 387,1       2 445,1      5 783,3      9 303,0   I 16 131,5   32 573,3    58 164,6   194 855,9
Financial Expenses                                         1 185,3      2 076,8       5 137,9      8 195,5       14 384,3   28 213,2 1  49 070,1   17$ 438,7
Administrative Expenses                                      172,7         310,0        577,8         939,4       1 594,7     2 735.4       5 186,3   10 817,5
Other Expenses                                                29,7          58,3         67,6        168,1          752,5     1 624,7       3 908,2      7 599,7
OPERATING                                                      326,7         449,7      1 085,3      1 687,2        2 593,9    4 666,8        8 598,5    32 202,2
Net Income                                                   289,1         438,9      1 069,2      1 575,5        2 505,9    4 654,7        8 502,3    32 028,5
Nun - operating Income (Expense) net                          37,6          10,8         16,1        111,7           88,0         12,1;        96,2         173,7
RESULT OF MONETARY CORRECTION OF EQUITY                        (50,2)       (165,0)      (542,5)  |  (820,2)    (1 929,9)  (5 168,7)!  (8 860,0)  (26 762,6)
PROVISION FOR TAXES                                                            7,6         16,7          20,1          42,4         66,0        241,6      1 73n,7
STATUTOEY PARTICIPATIONS IN PROJETS                             77,8(*)       49,9(*)      92,3(*)    136,2(*)         96,1         63,8         50,3         113,9
NET PROFIT                                                      198,7        227,2        433,8         710,7         525,5       (631,7),     (553,41)    3 595,0
BDM                                                                                                                  10,4 I    (31,4)1        (59,0)i    (179,5F
BANDECE                                                                                                              41,4 I        1,1       (131, 6       276,9
BOkN                                                                                                                  9,4 I    (30,3)'        (64,6)      (109,61
DLSENBANCO                                               l                          t            .                   29,1 1      90,4         294,8      2 043,5
BANDES                                                                                                               17,3        (34,2)        82,3        1I4,3
vD-RIO                                                                                                              (72,1)      (214,1)[    (257,7)         679,0
BDMG                                                                                                                 -            20,6;       145,8         450,5
BADESP                                                                                                               65,5          5O,         78,9          14,3
BADEP                                                                                                              (132,6)     (207,5>        (42,1)        (24,7)
BADESC                                                                                                               11,2        (37,5)'     (111,0)          3,2
BADESUL                                                                                                               2,6        (34,2)       t63,3)        124,6
BROE                                                                                                                556,0       (117,8)      (357,1)        993,0
BD-GOIAs                                                _   _                                                       (12,6)1      (41,9);      (68,8)       (306,73
SOURCE: AssoLi,at>o Brasileira de Bancos de Desenvolvimento - ABDE
(*) It includes dividends distributed.
LCPII
September 1982                                                                                                                                                                     ,



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
OStet Enveopmen.tBanks Solon-  Sheet
(An Of Dno.m.b- 31, 1981)
(Os mIllIo-s of Cr8
BDM         BANDECE         BDRN       DESENBANCO       BANDES        BD-RIO         BDMG          BADESP        BADEP          BADESC       BADESUL         BEDE         BE-COlAS        TOTAL
ASSETS
CIERCLLATINGAND LONG-TERM ASSETS            3,673.8       14,690.6       3,317.8      55,781.0       19,646.6      71,764.1    115,780.8        73,511.9      43,408.5      13,960.5       19,228.9    124,195.3         8,174.1    567,133.9
- CASH                                          44.1         283.8          98.1        5,477.4         705.8       2,028.1         672.9          370.9         504.5          114.8         118.0          748.7          75.0       11,242.1
- CREDIT OPERATIONS                          3,560.9      14,073.8       3,047.7      49,261.5       17,903.4      67,818.9    113,236.6        69,527.3      38,213.9       12,050.7      18,991.7    112,588.1         7,984.6    528,259.1
- LOQPQ                                    3 354.7      14,352.4       3,047.7      49,385.8       17,051.1      74,950.3    108,036.1       68,140.5       36,926.4       12,200.2      18,280.8    105,4B1.6         7,583.0    518,790.6
- PrIvate Sector                          2,180.6        7,689.7       2,038.9      21,722.4       14,178.3      25,875.2      60,874.2      24,327.2       24,802.6        7,759.1      12,183.7      54,982.0        4,171.7    262,285.6
Indontry                              1,354.2       5,675.0        1,582.1      17,236.1       4,124.5       18,645.3      52,443.0      17,519.7       23,261.8       5,871.5        9,113.8      46,234.9       3,172.8    206,234.7
COmnerpe                                572.8          945.2          97.7         468.2       9,554.0        2,847.3         614.0       3,202.2          365.8          65.5        1,275.4       3,153.8          432.5      23,594.4
Other                                   253.6        1,069.5         359.1       4,018.1          499.8       4,382.6       7,817.2       3,605.3        1,175.0       1,322.1        1,794.5       5,593.3          566.4      32,456.6
- Pubhio Onotor                            1,174.1       6,662.7       1,008.8      27,663.4        2,872.8      49,075.1      47,161.9       43,813.3      12,123.8        4,941.1       6,097.1      50,499.6        3,411.3    256,505.0
Peblft ServIces                         148.4        5,B28.9         913.2      22,763.0          317.9          65.2         147.1        6,823.7      10,984.7       3,662.0        5,143,8      35,741,5           78.3      92,617.7
ComPanies                             1,025.7          833.8          95.6       4,900.4        2,554.9     49,009.9       47,014.8      36,989.6        1,139.1       1,279,1          953.3      14,758.1        3,333.0    163,887.3
- Rota1 Credit                               206.2           -             0.0          156.4         981.3         254.6        5,564.2       1,514.6       1,287.5          552.9         715.0        7,771.1         404.8       19,408.6
- LOQos Ic Liqo1dotiOo                        27.5         243.9           19.0         603.4          52.1         208.8          152.3       2,161.0          563.6           3.1            0.4         254.0          35.8        4,324.9
- Deferred Profitn                             -          (278.6)          -           (280.7           -        (7,386.0)           -          (127,8)           -          (698.5)          -           (622.0)         (3-2)      (9,396.8)
- P-oivso  for DOUbtfU1 A-OUont..           (27.5)       (243.9)         (19.0)       (603.4)       (181.1)       (208.8)        (516.0)    (2,161,0)         (563.6)         (7.0)          (4.5)       (296,6)        (35,8)      (4,808.2)
- OTHER CREDITS                                 44.8         229.9           82.7         846.0         214.1        1,790.9       1,479.9       1,631.2        3,940.1       1,787.6           92.6       7,040.7           32.6      19,213.1
- OTHER ASSETS                                  24.0         103.1           89.3         196.1         823.3          126.2         391.4       1,982.5          75n.0           7.4           26.6       3,817.8           81.9       8,419.6
PERKANENT ASSETS                                39.8         455.3           30.8       1,501.8          65.4       3,262,7        2,077.5         581.1          271.6          49.4          291.6       1,083.2           40.2       9,750.4
- INVESTMENTS                                    1.0         385.0            0.1         855.6           0.2       3,090.4          977.3          83.4           14.2          22.3           20.0         747.8           16.2       6,213.5
- FIXED ASSETS                                  38.8          65.5           30.7         646.2          65.2          172.3       1,08l .7        497.5          242.5          27.0          271.6         323.9           20.5       3,490.4
- DEFERRED ASSETS                                -             4.8            -             0.0           -              -            11.5           0.2           14.9           0.1            -            11.5            1.5          46.5
TOTAL. ASSETS                                3,713.6      15,145.9       3,340.6       57,282.8      19,712.0      75,026.8    117,858.3        74,093.0      43,650.1       14,009.9       19,520.5    125,278.5        8,214.3    576,884.3
GUARANTEES                                   1,505.9         251.7        1,385.8       3,630.8       1,369.3        2,187.2       8,979.0       9,443.9       10,408.2       2,267.1        1,441.9      14,704.1        1,111.9      58,636.8
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
C       TRCILrING ANS LONG-TERM LIABILITIES    2,687.5    13,324.4       2,907.7       50,770.8      18,191.1      69,511.1    104,380.4        62,330.3      34,300.1       12,940.5       17,735.2    113,80183        7,274.8      510,162.2
- DEPOSITS                                      22.8         636.7          141.2      12,137.1          510.6     20,242.6        9,150.4       5,559.6        1,804.7       3,424.7        6,447.5      31,039.7        7,565.7      93,683.3
- LOANS                                      2,529.6       6,535.2        2,168.6      35,061.5       6,762.6      47,077.2       91,810.7      53,479.9       31,164.4       9,347.0       11,156.8      80,136.5        4,514.3     382,194.3
- Control Bnok - Lo.o ACoto.t                  -             -              7.2         451.8           -              -             -              -            20.0            -             -              0.3           -            479.1
- D-oeQtlc Looms                           2,529.6       6,535.2       2,611.4      33,981.5        6,762.6      46,821.6      79,957.9       47,341.1       26,019.7       8,695.9       11,156.8      65,791.7       4,514.3      342,719.3
Central BSnk                            146.0          489.2           -              -         1,171.0         618.1       B,750.9        2,870.9       3,653.0        2,202.3       1,600.3        9,026.0         539.0       30,066.7
BNDES                                   910.4        4,078.9         766.9       5,933.7        2,134.8       2,077.6       8,535.1        8,067.6       9,039.3        2,217.5       5,217.2       22,777.8       2,384.3       74,141.1
BNH                                      12.9            -           903.7      21,543.1          140.4      17,386.0        1,288.1       1,388.8       1,068.5        2,638.7         609.1        5,559.9            -        52,539.2
CEF                                      65.0            -             -              3.9           2.5           2.1           62.0          44.8           53.1          14.5         353.1           18.3            -           619.3
.FINAHE                               1,077.1        1,762.6         584.6       6,166.6        2,729.8      12,482.4      59,499.0      32,307.0       11,123.9        1,779.1       2,240.5       27,317.3       1,162.4    159,532.3
FINEP                                     8.9            -             8.3          104.3           7.4          11.0          542.3         943.4          327.9          13.5          159.2       1,052.9            4.0       3,183.1
1Othr IStitotiOns                      309.3          204.5         347.9          229.9         576.7      14,244.4       1,280.5        1,718.6          754.0         530.3         977.4        1,039.5         424.6       22,637.6
PoFreig  LOans                            -              -             -           627.2            -           255.6      11,852.8        6,138.8       5,124.7          651.1            -        14,344.5            -        38,995.7
- Other Obligotiloo                          135.1       6,152.5          147.9       3,572.2      10,917.9        2,191.3       3,419.3       3,290.8        1,331.0          168.8         130.9       2,632.1          194.8      34,284.6
.Fi-n-nl and Develop.ent Fpnd           58.1        6,018.3          29.6       1,06,.9        9,693.5          80.6       2,094.4        2,439.6         757.1           27.6            0.6         551.6           39.7      22,851.6
Other                                     77.0         194.2         118.3        2,511.3       1,224.4       2,110.7        1,324.9         851.2          573.9         141.2          130.3       ?,080.5          155.1      11,433.0
DEFENRED CREDITS                                 -             -              0.1          19.4            6.6           -           212.4           72.4          33.1            -             -            115.1           9.7          468.8          b
EIQITY                                       1,026.1       1,821.5          440.8       6,492.6       1,514,3        5,515.7      13,265.5      11,690.3        9,346.9        1,069.4       1,785.1      11,355.1          929.8       66,253.3          5x
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                3,713.6      15,145.9        3,348.6      57,282.8      19,712.9       75,026.8    117,858.3       74,093.0       43,680.1       14,009.9      19,520.5    125,278.5         8,214.3    576,881.3
So-re:  Bra-ilion Assoooiti.o  of Develoepent Genka
LCPI1I
Septetber 1982



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND OEVELOPFENT BANKING PROJECT
State Developmenet Banks
For thie  ear 1981
(In Cr$OOO's)
BDM         BANSSEC         BDRN       DESENBANCO       BANDES        BD-RIO         BDMG          BADEDS        BADEP         BADiESC       BADESUI.        BRDE         RD-OGOAS       TO7TAL
1.  OPERATING REVENGES                     1,403,851     4,614,954      1,558,688   17,262,505       4,315,69B    28,92n,325   46,920,325   33,462,492    17,321,241         5,B73,440      8,823.189    51,185,829    3.221,336  226,884,474
CREDIT OPERATIONS                    1,346,116    4,487,103    1,520,771   15,276,696          3,550,703    27,914,306   46,341,839   30,838,721   15,498,873          5,714,16B     8,694,186    51.150,2D9      3.121,954  215,455,645
SERVICES                                      -             -              -        6,300          16,874             -         8,545              -         3,5(9         3,9B5            212                          159        39,584
INVESTMENI INCOIHE                         918        51,822             38        50,435         88,948              --      213,476       462,315        210,098        17,864         50.066       625,893         51.266     1,823.139
GAINS ON INVESTMENT                                         -        12,224    1,361,054          339,948       3/9,959       129,906              -        17,171              -             -       110,285          4,071    2,354,518
OTHER                                   56,817         76,029        26,655       568,020         349,225       626,060       197,260    2,161,456    1,591 ,590         137,423         78,725     1,299.442         43,886     7,211,588
2.  OPERATING CEXPENSES                    1,190,267      4,158,660    1,436,360   11,686,143         3,531,367   26,273,846   41,269,326   28,212,677    12,956,)55         5,426,966      8,112,889   47,536,678       3,064,620  194,855,954
DEPOSIT COSTS                            2,649        84,399              -                       55,983    10,774,806    2,835,312         377,802       777,722      1,258,871     3,049,533    11,784.187         596,661   31,597.928
LOAN COSTS                             886,001    3,334,016      1,247,415    9,213,496        2,655,533    14,243,085   35,868,537   23,836,800    9,931,503          3,732,709    4,477,199   33,311.228    2,1097,159  144,840,761
BANKING SERVICES                           397              2           601           588              41            70        13,278              -                          296       110,116            389             4       125,785
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                295,124       469,717        167,672    1,213,108         603,375        787,946    2,037,080      1,184,816      1,158,641       411,480        461,785     1,707,151        319.611   10,817,506
LOSSES ON INVESTMENTS                         -             -             -        77,194           1,921                            -                          87              -             -                                     79,202
INVESTMENT COSTS                         6,096       270,526         20,660       903,435        214,514        231,900       512,027     2,656,225     1,087,965         10,849         14,238       589,372         50,889    6,568,705
00i000ER                                                                  -       278,322               -       236,039         3,092       267,034            157        12,761              18      138,351            293       826.067
3.  OPERATING INCDME                          213,504       456,294       122,328      5576,362         814,331     2,646,479     5,621,600    5,249,815    4,365,086           446,474       710,300    5,649,151         156,716   32,028,520
4.  NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE)             (2,313)        1,774         2,478         (2,1 3)         9,214        (1,974)        46,620        53,394        58,098         11,412         5,126         (8.132)           134       173,718
5.  MONETARY CORRECTION                      (390,749)    (734,970)    (234,385)  (1,717,047)          (617,143)  (1,965,471)  (5,217,467)  (5,280,210)  (4,447,867)    (454,732)   (590,797)   (4,648,G40)    (463,562) (26,762,648)
6.  NET INCOME AEFORE TAXES                  (179,478)    (276,902)    (109,579)   3,857,202            206,402       679,034       450,553         22,991       (24,683)         3,154       124,679       992,979       (306,712)   5,430,590
7.  PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES                      -             -              -    1,699,046          22,109              -             -         8,739              -                            -             -              -    1,730,694
8.  NET INCOMN  SEFOR   PROVISIONS          (179,478)    (276,902)    (109,579)   2,157,356            184,293       679,034       440,553         14,252       (24,683)         3,154       124,629       992,979       (306,7 12)   3,788,896
9.  STATIJTORY PARTICIPATION IN PROFITS                                          -       113,875              -              -             -             -              -                                          -              -       113,875
EiPLOYEES1 -                                        _7 -                             ,                                              _                                                                                                1,875
NEr INCOOE                                   (179,478)    (276,902)    (109,579)   2,043,481            184,293       679,034        450,553        14,252       (24,683)         3,154       1724629        997.979      (346,712)   3,595,021
SO1RCR: B-razilia Association of Develop-ent Banka
LCFPI
Septe=bor 1982



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
StEtR D-velpmnent Banks
Analvsir. of 1981 Panaontal Ope_atio=s
BDM        BANDECE         BDRN     DEseMBANCo      BANDES       BD-DIO          BDMl         BADESP         BADEP         BADESC       BADESUL          riRDE     BD-COIAS        TOTAL
Ave-ags Assets (CrS million)                               2,666.9      11,319.9      2,604.5      39,874.4      15,041.5      48,349.9      84,313.2      54,502. 7      31,275.3      9,596.8      13,832.8      84,897.6       5,507.8      405.797,9
Average Equity                                               653.1       1,327.8        352.0       4,469.3       1,096.3       4,071.4       9,855.3       8,608.0        7.069.4        748.1        1,208.7      8,212.6         618.3       48,290.4
Financial Satins (Percenrages cf Average Assets)
R-ne.en    r frn Financial o1p-ration.                        50.5          39.6         58.4          38.4          23.7          57.7          55.0          56.6           49.6         59.5          62.9           58.9         56.8           53.1
R-eenu. frnm Invo-Ln.ots                                       --              .5          .4           3.5           2.9            .8            .4            .8             .7           .3            .4            t.8          1.0            1.0
Other Operating Reve.,-o                                       2.1             .7         1.0           1.4           2.3           1.3            .2           4,0            5.1         _1.4             .5           1.5           .8            1.8
TOTAL Revenues                                             52.6           41.8        59.8          43.3          28.9          59.8          55.6          61.4           55.4         61.2          63.8          61.2          58.6           55.9
Finan cial C.etn                                              33.3           30.2        47.9          23.1          18.1          51.7          45.9          44.4           34.2         52.0           55.2          51.9         49.0           43.5
C-sts Rrlated to Ievost-nnta                                    .2            2.4          .8           2.5           1.4            .5            .6           4.9            i.5           .1            .1             .6           .9            1.6
Adsinistratl-o Etp-s-s                                        11.1            4.2         6.4           3.0           4.0           1.6           2.4           2.2            3.7          4.3            3.3           2.0          5.8            2.7
Other Ope-atin6 Bxpenses ..                                                                              .7           -              .5           --              3            -                   -            --I       _2                          .2
TOTAL Operating Expenses                                   44.6           36.8        55.1          29.3          23.5          54.3          48.9          51.8           41.4          56.5         58.6           54.7         55.7           48.0
Net Oper.ting Revenues                                         8.0            4.0         4.7          14.0           5.4           5.5           6.7           9.6           14.0           4.7           5.2           6.5          2.9            7.9
Nn.  Operating Inceo.  (e-pe-ses) NSt                            1             .1          .1            --             I                                                                      .1-  - '
TOTAL                                                       7.9            3.9         4.0          14.0           5.5           5.5           6.7           9.7           14.1           4.8           5.2           6.5          2.9            7.9
Monetary C-rrecteio                                           14.6            6.5         9.0           4.3           4.1           4.1           6.2           9.7           14.2            4.7          4.3           5.4          8.4            6.6
(6.7)          12.4)    (4.2 )              97            14           1.4           .5             -9-          ( .1 )                                     I I       (5.5              1.3
Pr-visien for Ta-es                                                                                                                               _ 4.3  2  -                                                                                         .4
Net l-c-o  Aft-r Taxes                                       ( 6.7 )        ( 2.4 )    ( 4.2 )          5.4           1.2           1.4            .5            --            ( .1 )          .1           .9           1.1        ( 5.5 )            .9
Snatrt-ry Pr-visi-n ior Enployees                                                                                      --            -- _  3                     --                            - '- 
Net lecoe-   (Lena)                                          ( 6.7 )        ( 2.4 )    ( 4.2 )          5.1           1.2           1.4            .5            --           ( .1 )           .1           .9           1.1        ( 5.5 )           .8
Sgurce:  DraBilia- Assoc-iati-o   f Develop-nt Bnanks and Bank Saiff.
LCPII
Sptember 1982



-    H       H    -    H                          H
I' H                    -OH                              H
H               HH                         H H H
-4HH                  -                     H H H
H    HH   H        H    H   H   H   H   -4
HHC           HHHHH4  H            -  -: 4' H  H
H         H   ''   H      H    H                 H   -   H
H  n  >       H                       89SgHHH       H
H OH           -i H H         F  HHHHIHH     H
-       HH                                         H  H  H
HO  H   HHHH               H   IH[
'-4    H  H       H  H                             I
4400              HH     HHOHHH'- H2H           HI
'444                   H         SH  -       H
H
-           H   H  H  H
H                                  H  H
'4 [0
H                         H  H  0      H
1.,HHHH    H H H  H HH H HHH
1.    -  -                  H'                         H
H H                      HH H  H HHHHHHHHH4.
-  H          IHI      H' H' H   HHHHHHHH   H   H
jH[HHHHHH        HHHHHHHHHHH         H
H H H -        iHrHHHHHH   -  H H H H H
H H H H H H H    I H - H H H H 0 H H  HHHHHHHHHHH H
H H H H - H H H H    H[HH HH  HH-HHHHOHHO H H H H H H
jCHHH HOHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
H    4HHH   - H' H' H  -.HHHHHHHHH    H
H  H H H H   IHHH H H H H H H  HHHHHHHHHHH    H
H
I H H H - H H    HOHO H H HHHHOH 'H H HHHHHHH H
H H HHHHHHH   H HH H HHH H - H H H   H
HH     2HH  HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
HHHHHHOHHHHHHHHHHH HHH                I  C
HH    H    H     H   HC'
LH                                   44
H                                   H   H          H
V 2222 2          HH  H H H H H H H H HI  2hH
H H H    IHH                HH HHHH H -  H
IHH'  CC H  CC H  H  H  H  HHH   H  H
*HHHHH    H H HHHHHHHHHHHH                    H H
RI           HH    1222:2                          H H             H
-           HHHHHHHHHHH    H
L   2       H         r            H  H
H   H H  H'H
Vt                 H HHHHH H OH H           2
H H H   JHHO                HHH  HHHH  -4
H HH          H H H H H H  H HH HHHHHHHHH    H
jHH        H HHHHHHHHHH H H H H H   H
II           2                    UUUUUIIItH  H
H H H H    IHHHH              HO H  H H H  H
I2fr:  4'H                                              H
H H H CC H H H H H HHHHHHHHH    H
H H H H   H              HHHHHHHHH H H-H H H   H
H   H                        H   H  H    H   3  4'  H  H
H                  H          H   H   44   0   H
HH  H  H  H  H  H
-4    HHHOHHHO
V         H 44   flH                                   K
H  H   H   H  H   H         '
H    44   H
H   CC  H   H  H                            H   H   H   H   H
b I                   H H H H H H H  HH H
H H H H H H H            HOHtH
H-4HHHH       IHCHH              HH H HH
?24tHH    HH H H H
Hid' HHHHHH        IH2HHH    HHHHHHHHH H
HI
I     H   H  H    H     H                          H
OH  HH     H      H
HH  HHH H H H    IHHHHH   H' H  H HH H H
H H jCC&HHH                                '4K
HHHHHHH                 H H H HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH            I H
H       H    H  -    H  I 'H         'C     -    H    H    H  H  '0  C
H H  HHHHH H    I HHHHHH'H'  H  HHHHHHHHHHHH    H
- H  H H H H H H    HOHHH  HHH H  H HH H H HHHHHH H   '0 'C
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH HHHHHHHHH HHHHH     H
HFHHHHH    HH      HHH                   HHHHHHHHH
I        --HHHHH HH'HHH   HH
g
-at-



-71-                     aNNEXI
Table 16
a -a aaa--a a 'CacaO--Ca,---
a-a-ta aaa-aaaata aa 2
$4;;-aa-aaaaaaa--
C   aaaaaaaaa@ataO  a a - - a 00..
a I aaaaaaa  a aatI-0 aa a- 01 - a   a CC 'Ca
al
H                         I aaoaaa  a 'C-al -
-c   a CC aaa'Caaaa  t Ca  aaa0aaa-a CC   I
O aC00aa'CIta
a      a a  aaa   aa aaa      --a 2        Z'C
-    a-   -  a    a  a.  a  a  a
aaaaa,--aa C 'Cal ' I
aaaaaaOaaaa0aaaaaCaCa Is-I
I-' eaoaac aa0'Ca1aaaCCCOaO                  I
I      aaa      :-              -. -            -
I - -
a-  a a  I a  a
a a aaaaaaaaa a aaaaaa a

a  -n    a   a  a  a   a   a   a
a a         a
a -Iaaaaaaa  aCCIaC Ioaaaa  a    I
I>1
a C a a a a 0 a a a a a I aaaaaaa  a    lI<a
aa-Caaa a aaaa aaaaaaa
aa           :-       a    a  -
I-C  I0I        aIaa aaaa  aa aa a a a a a - a 01aII
!                   aaaa,CCCCa01aaa'aIOOOOOaaI a' a
aaaa a a a aaaaaaaaaaaa
a   a  t
a  a            a aaaaaaaa-aa a- aa,a1a,Ia   a a a a i a  I [ a
a         a   a a aa a -  a  0 -  a   a a   a                a
-                                                       1
e     8
alt  I
a             aaaaaa aaaaaalalaaaaaaa  a0, I a I
a             aaaaaaa  a- aaa a  a a a a - a a 'Ca  I at
tlaaaa'CC ala Oaa a  - a CC a a a a aa  I a I
a aaaaa a a a a a a -  a aaaaaaaa   I
O             a-      - aa- -
aallaalaaala-  aCaa-  a 0   Cl
a aa aa   -'Ca -Ca a-Caaaa  0   0  all
aaaaaaa a aa aaaaaaa  a as'
a aaaaaa                    - a a -  
8 aaaaaa8--aaaa
aaaaaaaa-C-aCCaa a a a a a - a a   a  a
a a a a a a a   a  a
a                     a
a aaaaaa a aaaaa I-Ca a a - a - a a i al a
a aaaaaa a  a-Caa a a a a a a - a a   a  a   'C
'C   a a'aaaaa a aa-aa a a a a a a a a a   a  a
'C   a aaaaaa a aaaaa a a a a - a a a             a'  C
a  aaaaaaaa.-t'aaaaaaaaaa
a a- a   a a a a            at
a        a   a           C
a          a   a     CC        a
         -    a    a   
8 8
a   aaa-a     a a   a   a
a-      a    aa   01c-  Cs  -   a   a   a   a
t800
         a            aataaaa                     a
a      a
 aaaa-  a          a       8 
ECt    C,EtCZCta           a a a a
-a aa'C-IaZCIaCa a a a a a IC tlCa
CCCCaCCaCC a 0 'CaCs aaaa a a a a CC a a ---C'C    'C
a aa   aaaaa         a a a - -   az
- a
8 aaaaaa a asaa-asaa a a a a a a a aaaa a
a            a a a ca-ca
a         a            aaazaza                8  a ac
4         a            a a a a a a a          a



ERAZI L
STAFF 878FA132A, REPRST
SRCU"i DZYFLARMNP7 RslKEs PROJECT
11e001o0700 Foilfol io of StAxte 8ar&e
lane Shet as of Neceb- r 3Il  19S1
0A4ACRE        B6A       8039084156    86PARA          WYP       PARAIRAN      BANDEPe      PRODUBAN      BANESE        8MR           i3T        TOTAL
OS SIT
CIRCOLATING AlND LONG-TERM ASSETS                                     1,412.7     10,966.3        455.2      7,103.7     10,101.8     17,476.8     67,180.9     12,088.1       6,592.9     22.205.?     19,330.1    174,913.7
CASH                                                                30.8          0.0           -                         -            -           11.3          0.x           4.6                       _            46.7
CREDIT OPERATIONS                                                1,320.0     10,914.8        455.2       7,103.6    10.083.0      17,466.6     66,580.9     11,624,3       6,576.6     22,i63.0     19,092.7    173,360.2
LOANS                                                            915.9    10,845.3          10Z.1      6.451.5      8,685.5     16,641.6     62,279.1     10,566.4       6,075.9     19,417.0     19,228.2    161,214.5
PRIVATE SECTOR                                                   136.6      4,921.6          93.9      2,800.4      1,941.0      1,677.3     11,627.5      5,059.3       1,665.3      3,908.2         47.7      33,878.8
INDUSTRY                                                        84.8      3,784.7          58.2      1,76i.7      1,089.3      1,193.1      9,370.2      3,435.6       1,033.4      2,312.6         38.9     24,162.5
COMMERCE                                                        30.3        390.8          11.4        016.4        421.5        157.7        698.9        712.9           -          272.1          3.1      3,517.1
OTHER                                                           21.5        746.1          22.3        222.3        430.2        326.5      1,558.4        910.8         631.9      1,323.5          5.7      6,199.2
PUBLIC SECTOR                                                    779.3      S,923.7           8.2      3,651.1      6,746.5     14,964.3     50,651.6      5,507.1       4,410.6     15,508.8    19.188.i    127,335.7
PUBEIC  SERVICES                                               779.3      2,338.3          -         2,179.2      2,706.8      7,270.1     21,817.2      5,500.8       3,908.4      5,357.0    14,314.7    66.173.8
COMPANIES                                                        _        3,585.4           8.2      1.477.9      4,039.7      7,694.2     28,834.4          2.3         502.2    10,151.8       4.865.8     61,161.9
RUMAL CREDIT                                                     388.5         53.5         344.9        642.2      1,397.5        186.9      4,301.8       1,057.9        550.4      2,740.3          -        12,263.9
LDANS IN LIODIDATION                                              15.6         16.0           8.2          3.4         40.2         18.1        111.7          0.5          16.4          5.7          3.3         239.1
PROVISION iOR DOUETFUL ACCOUNTS                                   -            -             -            -          (40.2)         -         (111.7)         (0.5)       (66.1)         -         (138.8)       (357.3)
COMMERCIAL BANKS - INTERBANK ACCOUNT                              28.5          -             -                         -            -            -                          -            -          207.0         235.4
OTHER CREDITS                                                       33.4         51.5           0.0          0.6         12.8         30.2        588.)        463.8          11.7         42.2         30.4       1,265.3
OTER ASSETS                                                         -            -             -                         6.e          -                          --           -            -            -             6.0
PERMANENT ASSETS                                                         -                                                    - 
TOTAL ASSETS                                                         1,412.7      11,966.3        455.2      7,103.7     10,101.8    17,476.8      67,180.9     12,080.1       6,S92.9     72,205.2    1,338.1    174,913.7
GUARANTEES                                                              47.3         172.5         _                         45.           0.3      7,415.0        345.1          71.1      2,500.4          -         5,637.1
L I A I I L, I T I F. S
CIRCUIATING AND LONC-TERM LIABILITIES                                1,412.7    11,966.3         455.2       2,103.1     10,101.8     17,476.8     67,180.9     12,007.3      6,592.6      22,204.4     19,330.1    174,911.8
DEPOSITS                                                            35.3                _-                   3.          73.5          -        3,921.1      1,249.3          62.9         19.2          -        5,564.4
INT8RBANYC AND INTER-DEFARTMENTAL.
ACCOUNTS                                                          69.2      2,779.3         102.6       909.5         879.1        846.2      3,212.6      2,688.1         513.4      1,997.6        100.5      14,107.1
LOANS                                                            1,198.8      8,017.0         352.0      S,043.8      7,438.2     l6,614.6     45,319 .      6,204.9       5,917.7     17,973.8     19,83 1.5    133,537.1
CENTRAL SANK- LOAN ACCOUNT                                                -            -                                -                         -             1.3          -                         -             1.3
DOMESTIC LOANS                                                 1,190.6      8,092.0        3527.       5,043.8     ',43R.7      16,437.4     05,519.0      6,203.6       5,917.7     17,977.8     19,184.4    133,359.3
BACON CENTRAL BANK                                               147.5         25.8        135.5          -         1,168.0        623.1      5,470.5        865.2        481.n       2,801.9        781.2     11,899.7
BNDES                                                             65.0      1,041.7          -           827.3        787.9        879.4      2,860.3        943.7         935.4        326.9          --       8662.1
BNi1                                                             750.4      4,1478           -        3,443.3       4,302.2      9,770.1     34,830.2      3,568.3       3,999.3     l0,005.4     16,010.1     90,827.1
CEF                                                                -            5.9          -            266          23.0          -           41.3        113.2          -                          -           710.0
FINAME                                                             9.2        324.8          -          751.6       1,109.7        57iJ1      1,983.7        363.5         196.3      2,836.6         88.3       8,239.8
FINEP                                                              -            -                         -                                     129.5          5.5           7.6          -            -           142.6
OTRER INSTITUTIONS                                               226.1      7,506.5        716.5          -           139.4 b     ,593,7       270.3         339.2         7981       2,00710      2,807.0     13,378.4
FOREIGN LOANS                                                             -                  --                         -          177.2          -            -                          -            -           177.2
OTER OBINGATIONS                                                   110.4         95 .C          0.6     4,147.3       1,339 0         16.0     14,527 7.4    I,45.E           986       7,209.8          34.1    21,983.2
FINANCIAL AND DEVELOPMENT FUNDS                                   75.6          0.1                    1,13..6      1,682.7                  14,381.0      1,883.2           -        2,110.6         7&86     21,300.4
OTER                                                             34.,         94.9           2.6          6.7         36 3         16.0        146.4         61.0          98.6         9q.2          5.5         602.8
DEFER2ED  CREDITS                                                                                                            -            -           _              0._           0.3     _     .0                        1.9
TOTAL LIABII.ITIES                                                   1,412.7     10,966.3        455.2       7,103.7    103,101.8    17,476.0      67,00.9      12,080.1      6,59279      22,205.2     19,330.1    174,913.7
SEutee:   AiRRCR AER..Ai. oRE  f DevRlo.pmnt . RIIkR
LCP1l
September 1982



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOFMENT BANKING PROJECT
DevIopment Portfolio of State B.nk.
Income and Expense St.te-e-ts
For the year 1981 
(In CrOSOS's)
BANACRE          BEA      BANRORAIMA    BANPARA            BEP       PARAIBAN       BANDEPE      PRODUBAN        BANESE         BRB           EEMAT         TOTAL
1.  OPERATING REVENUES                                                  453,576    4,050,579          58,248    3,074,441    3,723,721    8,283,785   31,539,437    4,756,772    2,411,146    8,741,538              266,550   67,359,793
CREDIT OPERATTONS                                                 444,385    4,013,060          58,152    3,072,671    2,989,538    8,227,667   31,362,390    4,742,261    2,400,950    8,714,776              206,511   66,232,361
SERVICES                                                              357            50              -                       7,641           457        17,457             -         1,846             -              4       27,812
INVBSTMENU INCOME                                                                      -            -                            -           104             -             -             -           826              -           930
GAINS ON INVESTMENT                                                     _             _              _             _             _             _             _             _             _             _              _             _
OTHER                                                               8,834        37,469             96         1,770       726,542        55,557       159,590        14,511         8,350        25,936        60.035     1,098,690
2.  OPERATING EXPENSES                                                  446,477    3,074,410          42,752    2,836,888    3,373,682    7,806,451    30,278,983    3,845,751         2,229,358    7,838,352         306,729   62,079,833
DEPOSIT COSTS                                                           -             -              -             -        13,474             -    1,203,980        535,796             -         3,579              -    1,756,829
LOAN COSTS                                                        419,601    2,976,116          23,116    2,737,253    3,190,787    7,662,713   28,410,492         3,205,250    2,038,365    7,681,923         153,752   58,499,368
BANKING SERYICES                                                        4             -              -             -            37             -             -             -           235             -              -           276
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                                            22,207        62,200         19,577        99,635       106,886        88,007       492,640        96,342       107,786       152,662        14,167     1,262,109
LOSSES ON INVESTMENTS                                                   --            -              -             -             -             -                           -             -              -             -             -
INVESTMENT COSTS                                                    4,665        35,945              -             -       60,059              -       171,871         8,113        82,972           188       138,810       502,623
OTHER                                                                   -           149             59             -         2,439        55,731             -           250             -             -              -       58,628
3.  OPERATING INCOME                                                      7,099       976,169         15,496       237,553       350,039       477,334    1,260,454        911,021       181,788       903,186       (40,179)   5,279,960
4. NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE)                                              -     (266,504)             (3)          42         3,401             -           (19)             -             -            17             -      (263,066)
5.  MONETARY CORRECTION                                                        -            -               -            -             -             -             -      (549,484)             -             -             -      (549,484)
6.  NUT INCOeS BEFORE TAXES                                               7,099       709,665         14,493       237,595       353,440       477,334    1,260,435        361,537       181,788       903,203        (40,179    4,467,410
7.  PROVISION FOR TAXES                                                                     -               -            -             -             -             -              -
NET INCOME                                                                7,099       709,665         15,493       237,595       353,400       477,334    1,260,435        361,537        181,788      903,203        (40,179)   4,467,410
Source: Brazilian Asaociation of Development Banka
LCPI1
Bepta,aber 1982



ANNEX 5
- 74 -                        Table 1Q
BRAZ IL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursement
IBRD FY and                             By Quarter            Cumulative
Quarter Ended                                      (US$ million)
FY 83
December 31
March 31                                    15.0
June 30                                      4.4               19.4
FY 84
September 30                                 8.8
December 31                                 13.2
March 31                                    17.6
June 30                                     20.7               79.7
FY 85
September 30                                23.8
December 31                                 26.8
March 31                                    27.4
June 30                                     23.2              180.9
FY 86
September 30                               17.0
December 31                                 10.0
March 31                                     7.0
June 30                                      5.1              220.0
Source: Bank staff.
LCPI1
September 1982



75 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. The Project
BNDES Reports
A-1    BNDES Budget 1982
A-2    BNDES Annual Reports 1975 to 1981
A-3    BNDES Annual Audit Reports 1977 to 1981
A-4    FAPES (Retirement of BNDES - 1981 Reports of Activities)
A-5    BNDES Plan of Action 1978-1981
A-6    Norms and Instruction of Presenting Industrial Projects
A-7    Operating Policies (Resolution No. 535/79 of Board of Directors
of BNDE)
A-8    Reports of BNDES Subsidiaries
- EMBRAMEC 1980 and 1981 Financial Statements
- FIBASE 1980 and 1981 Financial Statements
- IBRASA 1980 and 1981 Financial Statements
- FINAME 1980 Financial Statements
- FINAME Annual Statistical Bulletins 1974 to 1980
A-9    BNDES Operating Statistics for 1981
A-10   BNDES Board Resolution No. 541/80 Internal Organization and
Functional Responsibilities
A-ll   BNDES Board Resolution No. 564/81 Exchange Risk Policy of BNDES
A-12   BNDES Information Bulletin (Statistics 1952 to 1980)
A-13   BNDES Description of Operating Programs 1981
A-14   BNDES System, Amounts of Operations Approved by Sector - 1975 to 1981
A-15   BNDES System, Operations Approved According to Regions



ANNEX 6
- 76 -                          Page 2 of 3
BNDES Area of Operations with Agents (AP-III)
A-16   Board Resolution No. 567/82 Regulation of Program of Joint
Operations
A-17   Draft Contract between BNDES and Financial Agents (Joint OperatiouAs)
A-18   Outline of Supervision Procedures of AP-II
A-19   Statement of AP-III Personnel, March 1982
A-20   Operating Statistics of AP-III - Years 1976 to 1981 and to April 1982
A-21   Internal Procedures of AP-III
A-22   Form of Reanalysis of Financing Operations of AP-III
A-23   Form of Report for Supervision of Financial Agents by AP-III
A-24   Review of Financial Performance of State and Regional Development
Banks and of State Banks with Development Portfolio 1980 and 1981
ABDE
A-25   Financial Reports of State and Regional Development Banks and
of State Banks with Development Portfolio 1978 to 1981
A-26   Financial Statements for 1981
A-27   Training Program for Development Banks 1982
A-28   Report on Training Program for Development Banks - 1981
Central Bank
A-29   Resolutions dealing with State Development Banks
B.  The Sector
B-1    Recent Developments in the Financial Markets, Frank Veneroso,
Consultant, April 1982
B-2    Central Bank Statistics from its Capital Markets Departments
B-3    Central Bank Statistics on Pension Funds - 30/6/81
B-4    Central Bank Statistics on Pension Funds - 31/12/81
B-5    Central Bank Statistics on Mutual Funds - 31/12/81



ANNEX 6
- 77 -                        Page 3 of 3
B-6    Central Bank Statistics on Investment Funds - DL1401 - 31/12/81
B-7    Central Bank Statistics on Fiscal Funds - DL157 - 31/12/81
B-8    PIS/PASEP Programs, Use of PIS/PASEP Resources, Relations
between Adjustments in ORTN and General Price Index in Brazil
(IGP), and PIS, PASEP, and FPS Balance Sheets as of December 31,
1981
LCPII
September 1982






IBRD-15685
(VENEZUELA    ' , Q                                        (FREkH              50                                                                          A RIL 198
:~~~~~ .'~-'" :   ::                                                 AUR INArME\QL.JIAN : 
C0L0MBIA~~~~~'                           ( ~~~*'~                  -QIAN/
N~~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                                                                          0   
'a                                                                                                  I"           4u                                                     0*~~~~~~~~~~~,::7"  X
C cenco                     \    , 0  M                              C 1, A,,,,''                                                                                  '                     C 7
O. :          LA   :    ,:     :    :        :  -           -6t                                                                 .   
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1r
z"Teresino
- eioac, Pessoo
Velho                                                                                                                              Rcf
rornco i,race6 
: p     C  /F Z     ; \~; h \   ;:A:    ,  :qi;20,; .2 g  :  E: ;' ) /   annP GradeS  !>--  ",Hor/ n*e....ac'-ju.   ! 
t2,j              0  3   -f00 !!n    X ,-r~'.  '                   E                               f                       4X    .7                  Svircr        -    - /    .Salvador
I             l;!5 S;:    :: :0  V :\                           ;0                                  a   Feeaulo   ?         Rod  o
Cucic                                           Districtrtib 
(,  t      ; ;    :      G        N T BOLiVIA  j....                          Glo,anofolts           - 1-        BRAILA
,v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
P A                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Campo Grande                    *BeIo
20' /AMERICSX    ) rhHori *-                                                                                                                 conre9StgX   : ;: :0  \ T ]1  N  >   PortoAleareSJ  S  Nut rnal poiot
\PARAG AY                                            aPW
o  ;2 aj:: L>r  7tric  iJL^7TfoVhih/tt'PsT,i:   :     5t        jA ;>              oo           IOEESa Paul  2o  roo  soStenderiryburAre
FtLF 2i7 . t;   ; T   0L   \ lE    \             ;y j500g  j ;; -    Z              MILESo     loo    2d    GdX       -*-Rio de Janeiro
CHILE?                                                                        ,~~~~~~~~~~~  1psarttos
j SOUH 
)          A~~R G   N T  I'                                           Fl yononpo,lMn                               BRAZIL
/                                                                                                                  ~~~~ National capitail
An  0                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Porto Alegre                           a     State aind territory capitails
LANA/C ~~~, ~~    e, ,,,,~~~ ~~  a              A~~.  ~ ~             iiIL0iMETERA0 ]CiOi 200 300 400 5)              State and territory boundaries
A-  Th~~~~~~lAlOiAAO2OO0OGdGGiG  ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~     ~      ~    ~    MIES01100   1    2000             ___  -   nternaitional boundaries
e 0..   S                 WOIdA,dOOOAjiol MA/VA u e-a'             UE RUGUAY  <sS                                                                   -      - Rivers i                                 .
K R A.   Q~,.             Oh;' 00010 ort ry rmdoOgO,G3wm,Gt  ^  A            !                    V
t haCcdbacf f s chb0;' OG bO G  OIG,.GOIAAGOO               0a   /.                               o'                                     a                                    30-



