Document of                               FILE
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3417-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
-IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$220.0 MILLION
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
November 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
As of October 31, 1982
Cr$ 1   =   US$ .004594
US$1    =   Cr$ 217.63
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Unless otherwise indicated dollar equivalent figures in this report
are based on the dollar-cruzeiro exchange rate as of December 31, 1981
(US$1.00=Cr$ 127.80), the date of the base cost estimates.
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ABDE      Associa,ao Brasileira de Bancos de Desenvolvimento
(Brazilian Association of Development Banks)
BB        Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BACEN     Banco Central do Brasil
(Central Bank of Brazil)
BNDES     Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(National Economic and Social Development Bank)
ORTN      Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Obligations of the National Treasury)
PASEP     Programa de Formagao do Servidor Publico
(Public Employees Financial Reserve Fund)
PIS       Programa de Integracao Social
(Program of Social Integration)
POC       Program of Joint Operations with Agents
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejamento
(Secretariat of Planning)
SDBs      State and Regional Development Banks
SME       Small and Medium Enterprises



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agency:   National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES)
Beneficiaries:       - National Economic and Social Development Bank
- State and Regional Development Banks and Other Financial
Intermediaries
- Brazilian Enterprises, principally of small and medium size.
Amount:              US$220.0 million equivalent including capitalized front-end
fee of US$3.251 million.
Terms:               Repayable over 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
ReLending Terms:    The Borrower would make available the proposed loan to BNDES,
the executing agency, on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan. BNDES will assume the risk on exchange. The
BNDES relending rates would be sufficient to compensate BNDES
for assuming the foreign exchange risk. The loan proceeds,
would be relent by BNDES through state and regional develop-
ment banks (SDBs) and investment banks to beneficiaries at
interest rates from 6% to 12% per annum depending upon the
region, type of project, and size of enterprise financed. The
maturities of subloans would be up to 10 years including up to
3 years of grace depending upon the type of project financed.
The principal of the subloans would be adjusted for inflation
according to the ORTN index.
Proje t
Desc;iption:        The proposed loan would support the Government's current pro-
gram to reduce over time distortions affecting Brazilian trade
and industrial development; would provide needed medium and
long term resources, principally to small and medium enter-
prises (SME) which in recent years have suffered the most from
the acute shortage of such resources; support BNDES' efforts
to strengthen the institutional capabilities and financial
condition of state development banks, including their evalua-
tion and supervision of projects; and would support a work
program to undertake studies laying the groundwork for
industrial policy changes.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:                There is a risk that monetary correction in financial
instruments might not fully reflect domestic inflation
and, therefore, interest rates on subloans could become
negative. The Bank would closely monitor the movement of
monetary correction to ensure that it does not lag behind
inflation and, that therefore, interest rates to the
final beneficiaries remain positive. It has been agreed
that, if the adjustment of the principal of BNDES loans,
together with the interest rates applicable to such loans
shall, in the Bank's opinion, fail to be positive in
relation to the prevailing inflation rate in Brazil,
commitments and disbursements could be suspended
(Section 2.03(d) of the draft Project Agreement and
Section 5.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Estimated Cost and
Financing Plan:
Total
Intermediaries   Project
Bank      BNDES         & Beneficiaries   Cost
-----------------(US$ Million)----------------
Fixed assets and
related working capital:
SME                       151        151                302            604
Large enterprise            50         50               233            333
201        201                535           937
Permanent working
capital only                   16        105                 65           186
Financial strengthening           -         78                 78           156
217        384               678          1,279
Other AP-III programs             -         50                 50           100
217        434                728         1,379
Front-End fee                     3
220
Estimated Disbursements:
1983        1984        1985        1986
-------(US$ million by Bank FY)-
Annual                   19.0 1/    61.0          101.0        39.0
Cumulative               19.0        80.0         181.0       220.0
Rate of Return:                n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report:        No. 4078-BR, dated November 1, 1982.
1/   Including front-end fee.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF
US$220.0 MILLION TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$220.0
million to help finance the Second Development Banking project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. The proceeds of the loan would be made
available by the Government on the same terms as the Bank loan to the
National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES), which would in
turn relend the funds through state and regional development banks mainly
to small and medium enterprises.  BNDES will assume the risk on exchange.
BNDES relending rates would be sufficient to compensate BNDES for assuming
the foreign exchange risk. The principal of the subloans would be adjusted
for inflation according to the ORTN index. The interest to the final
beneficiaries will be ranging from 6% to 12% per annum depending upon the
region, type of project and size of enterprise. The maturities of subloans
would vary from 3 to 10 years including up to 3 years of grace, depending
upon the type of project financed.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on Juine 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a country
economic up-date was in Brazil in May-June 1982; its report is expected to
be available in late 1982. Part I of this report as well as the country
data sheets attached as Annex I reflect the findings and projections of
that mission.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its attention has
had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-of-
payments situation. Major economic priorities of the Government include
the growth of agriculture, reduced dependenice on imported petroleum, con-
tinued expansion of manufactured exports, and increasing domestic savings.
Success on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and
balance-of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of
living standards and better income distribution. In mid-November of this
year, Brazil held its first major elections since the mid-1960s.
Opposition candidates have captured the governorships of several key
states, but no immediate impact is expected on national economic policies.
Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and
domestic trade. After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted



-2-
to cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened terms-
of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and employ-
ment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and
tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expan-
sion and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity;
intermittent controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers;
heavy foreign borrowing; and an intensifying efforl to reduce energy
consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11 percent annual growth of the 1967-73
period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7 percent average annual rate from
1974 through 1980. The merchandise trade deficit, which had ballooned to
US$4.7 billion in 1974, was eliminated by 1977 as a consequence of a 52
percent nominal increase in exports and of a reduction in imports. Over
the entire 1974-1980 period, nominal exports rose 153 per cent as compared
to an 82 percent increase of imports. Non-oil imports rose only 32
percent.  However, the rapid accumulation of external debt, Which rose more
than 3 1/2 times, the compression of real imports, and the intensification
of inflationary pressures increased the economy's vulnerability to the
further sharp increase in petroleum prices and the rise in interest rates
which occurred in 1979 and 1980. Thus, over those two years, the current
account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion, and
international reserves fell by $5 billion.  Domestic inflation accelerated
to 110 percent.
6.        In. response to the detericrating balance-of-payments situation
and domestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth
to stabilization. Monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which
had lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with
inflation. Interest rate controls were removed from commercial bank
lending, and the rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The
intention was both to dampen aggregate demand and to encourage capital
inflow. Although still highly subsidized, the interest rates charged on
official loans were also increased.  The previously eliminated tax incen-
tive to exports was temporarily restored, and the financial transactions
tax applied to foreign exchange operations for imports was raised from 15
percent to 25 percent.
7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP decLined by 2 percent in
1981, with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo particularly hard
hit by high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer
durables purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8
billion in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current
account deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion inacrease (to US$9.2
billion) in net interest payments abroad. Contributinag to the trade sur-
plus was a 33 percent increase in manufactured exports and the further con-
traction of petroleum imports. International reserves rose US$600 million,
to the equivalent of 4 months of goods imports (,compared to 3L6 months
coverage at the end of 1980). Domestic inflation fell to 95 percent. The
policy measures introduced and the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement
served to sustain the confidence of the international bankers, and no
problems were experienced in raising the US$10 billion in required net
borrowing during 1981.



-3-
1982 and Prospects for the Future
8.         The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in
1982, with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of
the heretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by more than 10 percent through the first eight
months of the year. Although imports are also down, the earlier expected
trade surplus has evaporated, and an approximately balanced trade account
now appears likely. Some relief will come from the recent decline of LIBOR
rates, but the current account deficit for 1982 will total about US$14
billion. Meanwhile, inflation will probably remain at just below 100% for
the year. Some signs of an incipient, yet fragile, economic recovery had
become apparent by mid-year, but GDP growth for the year as a whole will
most likely be nil.
9.        The outlook for 1983 is for continued recession.  The Government
has indicated its intention to continue its pursuit of restrictive economic
measures in order to meet its debt servicing obligations.  A major policy
objective for 1983 is to generate an increased trade surplus (with the
indicated target set at US$6 billion), thereby reducing its current account
balance of payments deficit and its external borrowing requirements.
Measures have been announced to reduce the consolidated federal public
deficit, restrain monetary and credit expansion, and temporarily impose
stricter, emergency-oriented, import restrictions.
10.       Since 1973 Brazil has made major efforts to reduce petroleum
imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated, and foreign
companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS,
the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear power production,
to substitute alcohol for gasoline, to expand domestic coal production, and
to explore Brazil's shale oil deposits. Efforts are also being made to
induce energy conservation, particularly through pricing policies.1/ As a
result of these, and other, policies, domestic gasoline consumption was
reduced by 20% between 1979 and 1981. By the same token, domestic
petroleum production increased by 41% from March 1980 to March 1982.
Despite these encouraging results, dependence on imported energy remains
formidable. Petroleum and petroleum derivative imports totaled US$11.3
billion (51% of total imports) in 1981. Comparable oil imports are
expected to be around US$10.5 billion in 1982.
II.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance
of international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and more
realistic prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments willcontinue to be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years. The development of
domestic energy sources, export promotion, agriculture, and the stimulation
of domestic savings will continue to require priority attention.
1/ Retail prices for most petroleum derivatives are well above
international levels. Thus gasoline (premium) price is 364% above the
international price; diesel oil 280% and fuel oil prices 149% above
the international level (CIF Santos).



- 4 -
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
12.       With reasonably satisfactory access to external capital, Brazil
may aim for an average growth rate of about 3% per annum in 1982-1987, with
a further GDP decrease in 1983 followed by recovery in 1984 and gradually
increasing growth through 1986. Such a growth rate should be compatible
with a falling current account deficit through 1986. However, a key
question relates to the continued availability of international commercial
bank lending. The combination of high debt service and a high share of
petroleum in total imports leaves the economy vulnerable, and this may be
expected to persist for the immediate future.
13.       Gross M&LT borrowing requirements for 1982 are estimated to total
about US$17.5 billion (about $10.5 billion net), and through the first
eight months of the year Brazil had little difficulty in meeting its
borrowing targets. In September, with the events accompanying the Mexican
debt crisis, resistance on the part of the international commercial banks
was encountered in meeting such targets. A reduction in Brazil's
international reserves resulted, followed by successful efforts to increase
short-term borrowing. By mid-November M&LT international commercial bank
lending had resumed although at reduced levels. In response to the
expectations of reduced international lending, the Government has announced
measures consistent with gross M&LT commercial bank borrowings of US$10.6
billion for 1983 (a reduction of 40% relative to 1982). Such borrowings
imply projected net M&LT borrowings of only US$5.4 billion, constituting an
8.9% increase in Brazil's gross M&LT external debt. In the event of
greater external resource availability, some build-up of reserve levels
and/or relaxation of import restrictions is expected. Beyond 1983
projected net M&LT borrowings fall through 1986. Consequently, the net
debt service ratio is expected to decline from 63% in 1982 to approximately
48% in 1986.
14.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to exogenous
factors such as petroleum prices, international interest rates, and world
market conditions makes projections subject to a wide margin of error.
Also, the present scenario depends on Brazil's ability to reduce the
consolidated public sector deficit, expand manufactured exports, and
attain continued access to international commercial bank lending. Despite
difficulties, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and
relatively resilient. The task of economic management will not be easy,
but policy-makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing
circumstances in the past. The recent announcement of the intended
painful, yet necessary, economic policy measures for 1983 is a further
indication of the Government's resolve and capability in coping with its
economic difficulties under adverse international circumstances. Thus,
Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
amounts indicated above.



-5-
Poverty Alleviation Programs
15.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security
health programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and
upgrading and expanding previous health services for the poor have received
much government attention.  Increased government efforts have also been
directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewerage services. 2/ In part as a reflection of
these and other programs, there are some indications, based upon
preliminary estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial
living standard and welfare improvements during the 1970's. Considerable
absolute real income gains were realized by all income decile groups.
Unlike the 1960's, the poor do not seem to have been left behind by the
rapid economic growth experienced during the 1970's. Non-income gains, as
reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
16.       By September 30, 1982 the Bank had made 116 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$6,998.9 million (net of cancellations), of which 62 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, and US$471.5 million in
FY82. The undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1982 was US$3,401.9
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. In FY82, seven loans totaling
US$722.1 million have been approved. So far in FY83 two loans totaling
US$313.4 million have been approved, US$304.5 million for an iron ore
mining project in the Sera dos Carajas and US$8.9 million for a project
to help finance the preparation of future investment projects in the
metropolitan regions of Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil. Work
is advanced on a forestry project in the state of Minas Gerais, on the
third phase project of the Northwest region development program, on a
sector loan for water and sewerage, and on a third feeder roads project.
2/   For a more detailed account of these efforts, see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR,
dated July 13, 1979).



-6-
18.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed is estimated to have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981. The
Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated at 4.2% while its share
in total debt service has remained constant at 2%.  These percentages are
not expected to rise significantly in the next five years.
19.       As of September 30, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$851.0 million, of which US$572.5 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$278.5 million, US$211.5 million represent
loans and US$67.0 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of
September 30, 1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
20.        In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve important development objectives which are inter-dependent.
One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. Loans for water supply and sewerage
projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in the northeast and in the south,
loans for urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and
services and low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in
medium-sized cities are assisting the improvement of the living conditions
of the urban population, particularly of the urban poor.  Previous loans
for nutrition research and development, primary education, vocational
training, agricultural research and extension, and integrated rural
development were designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas,
especially those in the northeast.
21.       Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, establish adequate coordination and control
within the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure
that they are used economically through rational selection of projects.
This institution-building objective is particularly important in the
proposed project, which seeks to support BNDES' efforts to strengthen the
institutional capability of state and regional development banks (SDBs)
through the transfer of managerial skills and training in project selec-
tion, evaluation and supervision techniques.  Loans for urban development,
electric power, railways, industrial finance, highways, agricultural
research and extension, rural development, water supply and sewerage, and
for alcohol and biomass energy development also have important
institution-building objectives.
22.        Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic pro-
duction for imports. Lending for the electric power sector supports this
objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and its development
lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and
petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute large-scale
efficient domestic production for imports and thus aid its balance-of-
payments position. The alcohol and biomass energy development project



-7-
addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum imports. Much of the
Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- is designed to facilitate the economical flow of exports.
23.       A final objective is to provide part of the medium- and long-term
capital inflows needed to sustain growth and achieve employment creation
and regional development objectives. Continued lending by the Bank in
Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as a sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages others to contribute to the country's
development. In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations, for about US$560 million, have been arranged
and signed with private financial institutions and several further
operations are in preparation.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General Characteristics
24.       By 1920 Brazil had a well established industrial sector.  With
further growth during the 1930s, the import rates had fallen to only 20% of
industrial supply by 1939. In the two decades following World War II,
Brazil experienced another stage of import-substituting industrialization
with growth rates averaging 8% p.a. fueled by large inflows of direct
foreign investment and by public sector investment in manufacturing. From
1967 to 1973 manufactured output grew at 12.9% p.a. and manufactured
exports at 36% p.a. After the first oil crisis the growth of manufactured
output declined to 6% p.a. and there was a renewed emphasis on import-
substituting industrialization, mainly of capital goods and intermediate
industrial products. Because of the current stabilization program
initiated after the second oil crisis of 1979/1980, in 1981 Brazil experi-
enced its first decline in GDP in the 34 years since national accounting
was initiated, with industrial output falling 8.4% and manufacturing 6.4%.
25.       In 1979, manufacturing accounted for 28% of GDP, and the indus-
trial sector accounted for 38% of GDP. The structure of Brazilian manufac-
turing has changed substantially since 1960, principally due to a shift
from traditional textile and food industries to metallurgy and chemicals.
Total investment in manufacturing increased nearly four times between 1970
and 1979. Industrial exports increased from US$284 million in 1965 to
US$14.0 billion in 1981 or from 18% to 60% of total exports. In spite of
very high growth rates, manufactured exports are still only about 8% of
manufactured output.
26.       Employment in manufacturing increased from 8.6% to 15% of the
economically active population between 1960 and 1976. Real wages in manu-
facturing grew at an average of 3.2% p.a. between 1968 and 1980 compared
with a growth in output per employee of 2.8% p.a. Industrial activity is
highly concentrated in the southeast region, which accounted for 76% of
manufactured value added in 1975. However, geographical concentration has



-8-
declined since 1960 with increased shares in the south and center-west
regions. The north region also increased its share slightly, but the share
of the northeast, despite special incentive programs, continued to
decrease.
Industrial Policy
27.        Export Incentives and Protection.  The Brazilian system of incen-
tives to manufactured exports consists of tax and duty draw-backs, a system
of enterprise-specific export incentive packages based on long term export
commitments, and export tax credit certificates. The export tax credit
certificates are scheduled to be eliminated by March 31, 1983.  Several
export-financing mechanisms are also in operation.  Studies of effective
protection in Brazil for the late 1960s and early 1970s found high average
nominal and effective protection rates with a structure of protection which
was highest for consumer goods and lowest for capital goods. However, a
recent estimation showed that the structure of protection is now the
opposite of the traditional pattern with rates highest for capital goods
and lowest for intermediate and consumer goods. Apparently consumer goods
industries have achieved that stage after many years of growth and domestic
competition, whereas the capital goods industries which are the more
recently established, have relatively smaller markets and initially were
subject to lower pressures from domestic competition.
28.        Main Policy Issues.  Brazil's industrial strategy for the next
decade and, particularly, for the next four to five years revolves around
the performance of its external sector. With manufactured exports account-
ing for 60% of total exports, a high growth rate of the former is a pre-
requisite for sustained growth in the next few years. The Government
rightly considers that to encourage a rapid growth of exports and output,
the focus of trade policy should center around an exchange rate policy that
ensures Brazil's international competitiveness. This should be accompanied
by an adjustment of export incentives and protection measures consistent
with changes in the real exchange rate. Average net export incentive
levels should be increased in real terms in order to reduce or eliminate
anti-export biases. These measures should be accompanied by a review of
the mechanisms and procedures under which the export incentives and
protection are granted, in order to simplify the system and make it more
automatic and less discriminatory. The policy review should also include a
review of several industrial subsectors that have been the target of
special programs, to ascertain the impact of the programs, the
competitiveness of these industries and their prospects.
Past Lending and Bank Strategy
29.        The proposed loan is the third DFC operation in Brazil.  The
first was a US$25 million credit line to the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil in
1970 which was, generally, successfully implemented. The second was Loan
1206-BR made in March 1976 (Project Completion Report, Loan 1206-BR,
November 30, 1981). Of this US$85 million loan, US$53.8 million was
cancelled because of new government programs for subsidized lending which
resulted in negative real interest rates and reduced BNDES' ability to
commit Bank funds since Bank funds could only finance subloans made at
positive interest rates. However, the Government now has changed its



-9-
position on interest rate subsidies, is phasing out subsidized programs,
and real interest rates on BNDES operations are expected to remain
positive. Although the subsidies caused a slowing of disbursements on Loan
1206-BR, they did result in an increase in the amount of AP-III lending
(BNDES' Projects Department III) which limited the amount of time available
for professional staff assistance to improve the performance of State
Development Banks (SDB's). Despite these pressures, some institutional
improvements were made, including important training and technical
assistance with AP-III support. AP-III is now concerned to continue and
strengthen these institutional developments, which would be supported by
the project.
30.       In May 1982, the Bank's Industrial Sector Report (No. 3766-BR of
July 2, 1982) was discussed with the Government. The Government expressed
its agreement with the report's scope and main recommendations including
such areas as exchange rate management, export subsidies reductions,
interest rate policy and domestic price controls, all of which build on
policy measures adopted during the last two years. The Government and the
Bank agreed that a work program should be developed to continue the
analysis initiated earlier, expanding its coverage and further developing
proposals for policy action. Therefore, the economic dialogue with the
Government on industrial and trade policy is likely to expand during the
next years. The proposed project would provide an appropriate vehicle for
continuing this dialogue and constitute the starting point of an increased
program of lending to support industrial development and increased
industrial efficiency in Brazil. To this end, as part of the project, the
Government has agreed to carry out studies to support the work program in
trade and industrial policy (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The purpose of these studies would be to lay the groundwork for further
policy reforms referred to in para. 27.
The Financial System and SME Financing
31.       The financial system can be divided into two broad groups.  The
first consists of the Central Bank (BACEN) and the Bank of Brazil (BB)
which form the Monetary Authority, the National Economic and Social
Development Bank (BNDES), and the National Housing Bank (BNH). Except for
BACEN, these institutions lend directly and also pass on funds for relend-
ing to second tier financial intermediaries: the commercial, investment,
and State Development Banks (SDBs), finance companies, and savings and loan
institutions.
32.       Apart from having most of the responsibilities and functions of a
central bank, BACEN also supplies funds for various Government programs,
including the financing of the agricultural sector through the Bank of
Brazil, and functions as a bank for the government resources directed to
priority sectors and activities. The Bank of Brazil acts as a window for
the massive lending operations of the Monetary Authority primarily directed
to the agricultural sector, export promotion and more recently, energy.
BNDES, a Federal Government bank, is the main source of long term financing
for the industrial sector and is practically the only source of term credit
for SME. There are 107 commercial banks of which 81 are private and 21 are
owned by state governments.  They concentrate on short term credit,
although on a limited scale they act as intermediaries for term lending by



* 10 -
the federal banks, including the financing of Brazilian manufactured equip-
ment with resources provided by FINAME, a BNDES subsidiary. The 38 invest-
ment banks lend mostly for working capital, but also channel term funds,
mainly from BNDES. However, they play an important role in assisting
larger clients raise term capital through the placement and underwriting of
corporate debt and equity. The SDBs are state government-owned state and
regional development banks acting, until recently, principally as credit
evaluation, contracting and disbursement agencies of banks for term credit
to the industrial, service and distribution sectors.  These development
institutions are practically the only source of term credit for SME.
33.       Private pension funds have been the most rapidly growing compo-
nent of the long term capital market and currently have assets of close to
US$2 billion. The corporate debenture market has grown rapidly recently,
owing to severe bank credit limits and wide spreads in the banking system,
and in 1981 issues totaled some US$1.7 billion at real interest rates as
high as 18%. The maturity of these debentures is usually 3-5 years.
Leasing companies have expanded in real terms at a rapid rate since the
mid-seventies. In response to the recent restrictive credit limits, a
large volume of non-negotiable inter-company borrowings has developed.
Finally, credit ceilings and high interest rates on domestic borrowings
have encouraged foreign borrowing by Brazilian banks and firms and these
totaled some US$45 billion at the end of 1981.
34.       In general, recent changes in financial markets in Brazil have
been adverse for industrial enterprises and the impact on SME appears to
have been particularly severe. The rise of private pension funds and a
debenture market have provided medium term cruzeiro financing only to the
large firms and have only partially offset contractions in domestic bank
and BNDES lending. Long term foreign finance has been available
principally to the large firms. Moreover, the severe credit limits on bank
lending may be squeezing SME out of this market. Under current conditions,
there is an extreme need for long term loans and equity finance by
Brazilian industrial firms. The proposed bank loan would help meet this
need especially for SME.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The project was identified by the Bank in November 1981 and was
prepared by BNDES with the help of Bank staff.  It was appraised in
May/June 1982 and the appraisal mission's report (No. 4078-BR dated
November 1, 1982 entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Second Development
Banking Project") is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations of the loan took place in
Washington from October 18 through October 20, 1982. The Brazilian delega-
tion was headed by Mr. Marcos Luiz Cunha Santos of the Ministry of
Planning.



- 11 -
Project Objectives
36.       The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to
reduce over time distortions affecting Brazilian trade and industrial
development. The project would provide needed medium and long term
resources, principally to small and medium enterprise (SME) which in recent
years have suffered the most from the acute shortage of such resources. It
would also directly support BNDES' Projects Department III (AP-III) 3/
efforts to further strengthen the institutional capabilities and financial
condition of the SDBs, including their evaluation and supervision of
projects. In this way, the proposed project would improve AP-III's ability
to support and influence the growth and strengthening of the development
banking system in Brazil. It also includes studies to support a work
program in trade and industrial policy (para. 29).
Project Execution
37.       The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the Borrower and would
make the resources of the loan available to BNDES through the Central Bank
(BACEN). Appropriate arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for channeling
the loan resources to BNDES would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). BNDES would make available
the Bank resources to eligible financial intermediaries through the Program
of Joint Operations with Agents (POC) of AP-III (para. 40).
38.       Institutional arrangements for the first Development Banking
Project have proven satisfactory. BNDES onlending terms and conditions
would be in accordance with AP-III/POC's policies and procedures, a draft
of which has been reviewed by the Bank during loan negotiations and found
to be satisfactory. It has been agreed that approval by BNDES of this
consolidated statement of policies and procedures will be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
BNDES Operations and Performance
39.       The BNDES System is one of the principal channels for term credit
and investment capital for both private and public companies in Brazil.
The system comprises BNDES and its two subsidiaries, FINAME (which finances
the acquisition of machinery and equipment fabricated in Brazil), and
BNDESPAR into which three former subsidiaries, EMBRAMEC, FIBASE and
IBRASA 4/ (which operated in the capital goods, basic inputs, and consumer
goods sectors, respectively) were recently merged. Until May 1982, BNDES
financed its operations principally from two social funds (the resources of
which it administered for a fee), domestic and foreign borrowings, capital
contributions of the Federal Government, retained earnings, and resources
3/ BNDES Department that lends through financial intermediaries (para.
40).
4/ Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Nacional y Social (BNDES), BNDES
Participacoes, S.A. (BNPESPAR), Agencia Especial de Financiamento
Industrial (FINAME), Mecanica Brasileira, S.A. (EMBRAMEC), Insumos
Basicos, S.A. (FIBASE), and Investimentos Brasileiros, S.A. (IBRASA).



- 12 -
supplied by the Government for special programs. In May 1982, it was given
the responsibility for administering a new social fund, financed by an
earmarked 0.5% turnover tax and to be used to finance projects in food, low
cost housing, health, education and small scale farming and was again made
responsible to SEPLAN as it had been prior to 1979 when it was placed under
the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce.
40.       From 1975 to 1981, the BNDES System has made disbursements for
loans and investments totalling some US$24 billion equivalent principally
for industry, but increasingly since 1978 for energy and transportation.
Although the Southeast Region, and principally the most highly developed
area of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, has benefited most from BNDES
resources, BNDES has allocated its resources on a broad geographical
basis. Most BNDES operations are direct loans, investments and guarantees,
and loan operations through financial intermediaries; however, it also has
programs to capitalize private national companies by loans to investors and
investment bankers and to guarantee subscriptions in shares or debentures
of national enterprises. At the end of 1981 BNDES had assets totalling
some US$16.5 billion equivalent and manages its operations on a profitable
basis.
41.       BNDES' Projects Department III (AP-III) is responsible for the
analysis, contracting and supervision of operations and programs through
financial intermediaries, namely, the state and regional development banks,
the state commercial banks with development portfolios, (SDBs), and the
investment banks. AP-III also supervises the performance of these finan-
cial intermediaries and coordinates the provision of technical and
managerial assistance to SDBs. AP-III had 125 staff at the end of March
1982. Staff are generally well qualified, with a number of years of expe-
rience working with financial intermediaries. AP-III's main program of
operations is its Program of Joint Operations through financial interme-
diaries (POC) which the proposed loan would support. In recent years as
the SDB system has matured, AP-III has shifted from mainly reviewing speci-
fic subprojects and programs financed through financial intermediaries, to
giving greater emphasis on the institutional, organizational and financial
condition of the intermediaries. The proposed project would support
BNDES's efforts to strengthen the intermediaries institutionally and finan-
cially. An Action Plan for this purpose has been prepared by BNDES and was
reviewed by the Bank during negotiations and found to be satisfactory.
AP-III will support programs to train staff of the SDBs in calculating
economic rates of return of projects and require them to provide such
analysis on all subprojects above the Bank's free limits immediately and
gradually require them above their free limits. The economic criteria that
are to be used in calculating rates of return are the criteria used by the
Bank. AP-III also plans to require external audits by the financial inter-
mediaries, establish guidelines and monitor their administrative expenses,
overdue accounts, concentration of risk, capital structure, liquidity, and
profitability. AP-III also plans to reduce restrictions on lending in
certain subsectors and has established a goal of lending at least 75% of
its resources to SME. BNDES will also continue to finance the costs of
training and technical assistance programs administered by the Brazilian
Association of Development Banks which have been instrumental in trans-
ferring the latest management techniques to the SDBs.



- 13 -
The State and Regional Development Banks
42.       The system of financial intermediaries cousists of 12 state
development banks, 3 regional development banks, 11 state commercial banks
with development portfolios, and 38 private investment banks. Although a
number of the SDBs only started to operate in the 1970s, they have proved
to be dynamic instruments which the federal and state authorities use for
implementing their economic development policies. At the end of 1981, the
SDBs had assets totalling US$4.5 billion largely representing lending
operations financed with term resources supplied by BNDES, FINAME, BNH and
the Central Bank. The largest SDBs are financially viable. The three
smallest SDBs have not yet reached a size where they can be financially
viable and may eventually merge their operations with those of their
respective state commercial banks to achieve economies of scale. Through
its Action Plan and general program of supervision of the SDBs, AP-III will
continue to work to strengthen the management and financial condition of
these financial intermediaries.
Cost and Financing
43.       The loan would support a two-year investment program totalling
about US$1,379 million, Bank and BNDES resources combined would cover, on
average, up to 50% of the total cost, involving both fixed assets and
working capital, of eligible subprojects for SME and 30% for larger
enterprises, and up to 65% of subprojects involving only permanent working
capital with which to increase capacity utilization. Final beneficiaries
are required to contribute at least 20 to 30% from their own resources (the
percentage depending upon the region and scale of enterprise) with the
balance being covered by the financial intermediaries. These financing
shares closely reflect recent experience. The Bank loan would cover 50% of
BNDES disbursements for subprojects to finance fixed assets and related
working capital, and 12.5% for subprojects involving only permanent working
capital. These percentages would result in Bank financing the estimated
foreign exchange component of eligible subprojects. The proposed US$220
million loan includes the capitalized front-end fee of US$3.251 million.
BNDES plans to raise about US$1.8 billion in foreign loans to finance its
overall operations in 1983/84. In connection with the US$220.0 million
Bank loan, it intends to secure about US$150.0 million from one or more
private banks under cofinancing arrangements with the Bank. However,
failure to raise the full amount of cofinancing would not affect the
project.
Loan Features
44.       Eligible subborrowers would be small and medium scale enterprises
with fixed assets, including the new investment being financed, not exceed-
ing 500,000 ORTN 5/ (about US$5.6 million), in all productive, distrib-
utive and service activities except agriculture and housing 6/; and large
5/ Provided they do not belong to a group with equity above one million
ORTN.
6/ Financing for agriculture is provided by the Bank of Brazil and for
housing by the National Housing Bank (BNH).



- 14 -
trazilian owned or controlled industrial or agroindustrial enterprises for
Investments not exceeding 1,000,000 ORTN (about US$11.2 million).  Subloans
would be for permanent working capital, the purchase and installation of
fixed assets and the expansion of facilities. Somne 75% of the loan is
expected to go to SME and the balance to larger enterprises. Average loan
size is expected to be US$100,000. Based upon recent AP-1t1 lending, some
80% of subloans would be for industry, 10% for commerce and 10% for
services. On the basis of recent experience, the project is expected to
result in the creation of about 62,500 jobs at an average cost per job of
US$15,000.
45.       Financial intermediaries, would be responsible for preparing
subprojects. AP-III sets its own free limits for the financial
intermediaries depending upon their experience and quality of their project
evaluations. For subloans through the more experienced SDBs the Bank loan
free limit to BNDES would be 225,000 ORTN (about US $2.5 million) and for
the other SDBs and all IBs 150,000 ORTN (about US$1.7 million). Based upon
past experience, only about 24 subprojects would require prior Bank
approval. However, in addition the Bank would conduct ex-post reviews of
SDBs appraisals and AP-IIIs subproject reviews during supervision missions.
Relending Terms
46.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Federative Republic
of Brazil at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. It would be
repayable over 15 years on a fixed amortization basis, including three
years of grace. Loan proceeds would be made available to BNDES on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan. BNDES will assume the risk on
exchange. BNDES would onlend the proposed loan to participating inter-
mediaries at rates which vary by region, the type of project and size of
enterprise financed. 7/ Its average lending rate to financial inter-
mediaries is 5.7%; the spread over the cost of the Bank resources is
sufficient to enable BNDES to cover any foreign exchange losses. Financial
intermediaries would charge spreads of 2 to 4% per annum and onlend to
final beneficiaries at rates ranging from 6-12% per annum. The financial
intermediaries would take the credit risk on all subloans. The principal
of all subloans would be corrected for changes in inflation according to
the ORTN index (see para. 50). Interest rates are expected to be positive
over the life of the subloans and would be reviewed periodically by BNDES
and the Bank and would be revised to reflect changes in capital markets and
economic conditions (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement). Subloan
maturities would be up to 10 years, with up to t'hree years of grace.
Disbursements and Procurement
47.       Disbursements under the loan are expected to take place over a
three and one-half year period from early 1983 to mid-1986. The final date
for submission of subloan proposals would be June 30, 1985 and the closing
7/ Rates favor the poorer regions of the country and vary from 2-10%,
with the Northeast and Centerwest states at the lower end of the
range.



- 15 -
date for disbursements would be December 31, 1986. The Bank would
reimburse BNDES for a share of its disbursements on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure prepared by AP-III and submitted by BACEN, and BNDES'
independent external auditors shall, as part of the annual audit of BNDES
accounts, review the internal controls and procedures involved in the
preparation of statements of expenditure, and give an opinion as to whether
they can be fairly relied upon to support applications for reimbursement.
In order to reduce the interval during which BNDES would finance the Bank's
share of subloans with its own resources, a Special Account would be opened
in BACEN with an initial deposit of up to US$15.0 million made from the
loan account. The Bank would replenish the Special Account on the basis of
withdrawal applications sent by BACEN after BACEN had paid BNDES.
48.       Procurement would be in accordance with standard practice for
Bank DFC loans and would follow normal commercial practice of private
sector enterprises to shop around for the best quality goods and services
at the lowest prices. The financial intermediaries complement these
procedures by having their engineers review the proposed equipment and
civil works design and contractors bids to determine the appropriateness of
the technology adopted, costs, quality and project scope. The studies
included in the project would be carried out in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank and with the assistance of consultants
or institutions with experience and qualificationis satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
49.       The proposed project is expected to make a significant contribu-
tion to the availability of term credit, which has been in extremely short
supply especially among SME, the principal project beneficiaries. It is
expected to result in the creation of some 62,500 jobs and to contribute to
a strengthening of the Brazilian system of development banks. There is a
risk that demand for resources will not develop as forecast due to a slower
than expected economic recovery. However, demand forecasts are based upon
a lending target of 75% of loan resources for SME and to the extent demand
by SME does not develop, lending to larger enterprises can be expanded.
50.       There is also a risk that a future Government might reintroduce
subsidized lending through BNDES to stimulate investment. However, the
Government considers that subsidized lending has been a principal cause of
the high inflation of recent years and it is believed that it will continue
to phase out subsidized programs rather than increase them. A related risk
is that the Government will fail to adjust the ORTN index to fully reflect
inflation in Brazil.  Failure to do so could lead to negative interest
rates to the final intermediaries. It has been agreed that, if the
adjustment of the principal of BNDES loans, together with the interest
rates applicable to such loans shall, in the Bank's opinion, fail to be
positive in relation to the prevailing inflation rate in Brazil,
commitments and disbursements could be suspended (Section 2.03(d) of the
draft Project Agreement and Section 5.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Federative
Republic of Brazil and the National Bank for Economic and Social
Development (BNDES), and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Conditions of
effectiveness will be the execution of appropriate arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank between the Federative Republic of Brazil and
BNDES for transferring the Bank resources to BNDES, and approval by BNDES
of the Consolidated Statement of Policies and Procedures of its Project
Area responsible for the project.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loin would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
53.        I recommend that the Executive DireLtors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 22, 1982
Washington, D.C.



ANL,A, I
-  17  -                                               Page  1  of  5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE.AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           8512.U                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    2195.0               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  320.0        570.0    2050.0                    1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      374.6       540.9    1018.3                    1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 71513.0       95322.0  118667.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.1          55.9      67.6                     65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       176.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         281.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         8.4         11.2      13.7                     35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      44.1         48.2      53.1                     92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.6         42.7      39.2                     39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                          53.8        54.3       56.8                     56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         3.0        4.0                      4.2                       7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0          2.9       2.2                      2.4                       1.6
URBAN                               5.5         4.8        4.1                      3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      42.6         37.3      29.5                     31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.1         10.6       8.7                      8.4                       9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          2.6       2.0                      2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        111.0     203.6/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0        102.0     124.0                    110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   107.3       104.3      110.6/d                  108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           64.8        62.0       64.4/d                   66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        35.7        34.4       35.9/d                   34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      19.4         12.5       7.2                      5.6                        9.2
HEALT H
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7          58.9      62.8                     64.2                      67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PEk
THOUSAND)                           118.2         98.6      77.4                     64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         55.0      77.1/e                   65.6
URBAN                                ..         78.0      87.0/e                   78.9
RURAL                                ..         28.0      56.8/i                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        58.0       64.8/e                   59.3
URBAN.                               ..         85.0      83.7/e                   75.3
RURAL                                ..         24.0      31.7/e                   30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2561.2       2123.8    1700.0/f                 1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2772.1       1112.3     822.0/7                 1063.5                     634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             307.0       269.0      247.7/e                  477.4                     286.8
URBAN                             325.6       322.6         ..                    679.8                     192.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         18.0        ..                     27.3                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.1          4.8       4.9/e
URBAN                                ..         4.6        4.7/e.
RURAL                                ..          5.2       5.3/e.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.1
URBAN                                ..          1.0
RURAL                                ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              38.7        47.6       63.0/e
URBAN                                ..         75.6      84.9/e
RURAL                                ..         8.4       19.2/..



ANNEX I
- 18 -                                             Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA7ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0       125.0       89.0/d,g                 104.3                     102.9
MALE                  97.0        125.0      9O.0/dj                  106.4                      107.1
FEMALE                93.0        125.0      87.0LLi                  103.3                       99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0        26.0       32.0/d                    41.3                      60.2
MALE                  11.0         26.0      30.07Nj                   40.4                       66.4
FEMALE                10.0         26.0      35.07                     41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  18.6           16.7      58.O0/,                   33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.1         28.0      22.9/d                    29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                           12.5        13.2       14.57E                    16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         66.2      76.4/e                    79.1                       75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.7        24.4       53.6/e                    42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          66.4       123.8      300.3                     270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          16.8        64.0      128.7                     107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   53.7         35.8      44.5                      63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0            2.0        1.8                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22978.5       29557.2   43796.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.2        20.1       27.5                      24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.9         45.6      29.9                      31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.8        18.3       24.4                      23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.1         31.0      36.9                      33.6                      44.5
MALE                                  52.7         49.3      53.1                      50.4                       56.3
FEMALE                                11.2         12.6      20.5                      16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.4       1.2                       1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBDTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHDLDS  60.0          63.5       62.0/c
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8           3.2        2.8ic
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8            9.0       9.4/.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .
RURAL                                 ..          ..      150.0/d                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     465.0/d                   518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     332.0/d                   371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1974.
/g   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data.
May, 1982



-19 -
ANNEK I
Page3 of 5
POTfOITIOgS OP 30LW. IOICATONd
Notes  bAlihocoh the do...:dra-  ftro  souo-    -risely jogo.            te at   tohoietis  r  reial,  itsho    ab    ecre   hrteyiyNt  ottr
norioellytoeerebls b. ofrh  loch of eodrio dttiaiioo    a  o toet                       db  diffrn   rorriar ulsto   it   aa    h  dte   r,  oo
rt..usflto dee-ibo order  of eaoitude, isIttt. tread. sod  oaatsisoti  e-Jor diffsreeeebotto    ootosi-c
Therfrosgop   r .ll.oh,.ease ..ucnr  troo  of rho:sbjoor c,ocaty asS  (2) I oosatr  stroop otob  ....rbar highoroerg  iIo    that tie cotioty goo
of  hs abj.ot  ...ry(ro;  for "Caritt     NrI.s OiC Oyotss             .top share "Kiddielv.o-   North Afica. red tNfd".d toot  is choos  b-us   of  trroWm
eutio-culuroi afflitise)    tothe referoco troo  data the oeasarppltirribsdritN rto iteat  for  -ah Lcdito  so  choi rely sho
ejority  of the  --uorts  is a Sroop h.. dots fo  thI    iidioto              . Niiaterorc  ofI      rtnr aIs   ho  storr  deruo   0  rho sootlbiiityofbr
on .hdic--o ro rI t      togte  outy eo  o-fsro   groups
LANP hOt.  (thuoaou.  eq.                                                                           NyJcio  osi NopTol04-ttl   ns    o   ua       ouelcIo
Trotoulucu  -t-1     ur  of. egrioulurg  errs used neeo1rIdy orprosty                               oist        npibl   o   rveotsr-rd  poate    osia   s 
birboss Os   hsi ds  Iaaloet  prodidIegpioplytro
ocleted by eascreri ethad as World tori atlas (1977-79 hoelel; 1960,                               re  edls  co..s. otp....oil  stf- papyris(rt by
1970, sod 1979 dtsrc.d~ca   osito,nus,sdite   c    o                                                                                                  Io offe  is-patr   bye
ERoGY CO5NiUPTION PER CuPiTA - duuiinueto    fcasua    ory  to                                        ra  purpoes ubrt   optl  iouaNl  ptopl arlhsios
sod lipeite, pertolru, oatu-l See sod hydro-.,.. ouIsr sod ge-herml elt-                          edralhoes 1c1 -r ruo-l hospitl Isd  dio-l en  eateruty
tirtityl 1,0 kAilorr  of coal eqinalo  per  .spit.; 1960, 1970, aod 1979                          o-or.Ipoais bSapiIlo ar  iooudad otly coder total
deco..Odraneot   uoiL d -Ttlocbro   disoet   rdchos
POPUIATION AND VItal SlATISTICS
Torah Porulailoo. ttif-Isor lihousrodel - us~~~~~A  of July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1979  HOU9ING
feangoouoioietl 19I  1970, rod 1979 fete,                                                      the h.ceooftoe licoo pI             psr
Pooc,lsiiii Proloocionscierraaocthso of ve-son  no  co -    total,  lrho., and rura  - iv-rsI NI .
Poc     ..,oi  ia  loll - ICoro  pyliln-oj     cc   c  bred0019                         baro   ees   r   oti   l  urban  ro  rural o-uid   vooiosl.
ccIcpisiioo by  c  and eoad  hbs,    n              -tlysd fertilit  roses..             dn.loes.reauolosl.  Ool    eulds  o-oen                        eNu  cs   o
Projeoco   parern   o   oclcY _rate  -oprheof three   _lel  Ieue                             u.uicupiad Pars
in  lf  rpctnY at birth i-c...aind cith Io.c.try'5 Pev c-pit- brwi-ie  to                                   (Po.or   ocos  fdrlit)-tts    os.rdro 
eaters 7r fermiccv reirelso th.  threeI esl  u             Id.edolo  toof Iosl  -oba, ond-ura  dnahlnogsrtpciep
ten01iiy  .o..o Idto  toitm       ,los,i.,d poe  filIly pleo...    psfoasos
tact c_-o_y iio eh_   i.gnd co  of ibe          lr  ohotirao   otolity                    hlPO
rod  -tercicry trnsf- projection purposes,                                               111Adletd   colrs    oco
yont,av  pplet Io  . -o,ie   .oo..  pouY  coo.~   chaos is    ..o goth aice.            Pri-exr soo           L  In -sl  o   secsdre    oe,  e.04(r
the;it   sri   qa   tohli  deah           lat, sod rIco the  s   tutr e.toltto I.t1It1 0gk-L tot a  rh   polcy                                ..o.a  ps-rlat-.cI ofrspcIe
asiocoean  .Ths  s  0150f  ilysProfscl lp  ats  soii.a                                   piory- s       "iI-e  populaIon:h    nsl   olds  hler  sdN
its  eplessrn  Irol o  jol  netrepoduaiot  are,oha  sor  asororor  yars  ic ajused  fr fi feano  sosos ofpolery  dora iceffo
sans Isoel.     I                                                              aduoathtt, requ~~~~~~~I  PY-"  hoseat isatturpaafeprodp I               P., serrtoi,
sirs hs hea, reahed,                                                                     suall  of y   not1  peace offas   oreonectccc   0   555
Povultioun leriehco                                                                nocludad~~~~~~~~~~~o i.                 .th  o  P LII
Pe e. h.   -20,da.' tuyrpola co   e  sur  ileuo   Ilhetoe off. 10t740no1..0ypy btnop .jL ,oi  of                                        . e h.ce  ofi -  ootin   iseistlr
total  nsi:  ffO, 170 an  197-Jc.                                                        lcld   oshoa   lodurvia, or              . o oba  Progr.  oIdo  opeofa  tdo
ftr oi  b,o.  j7jiuo.ivslisid  'Coay.Thd. ah.ce tot  -atioultuvpeplland                Iold cos ...s.tt. ctI.     o  ercIodlry  eetiturcorie
only: 1)60, 1970 cod 1979 fore.                                      ~~~~Pul-neooher. ..tlo -....t.r. aid-  teoodhr  - otelg  students eNrlle Pin,
leton: -19N1  1970, ro0 d 1979 dat.-                                                             dl ltrenr ts osoeL .             - Lteat  duls-       btt   edai    re
scpp Loiono  for _90- 19  19b0'C71P- end  b97-9. o                  .dId.r',                                                      cr og           0 bo
popolctiot; 196, 1970, rod 197  dcts.                                         broedosia to geosral pblicY.or Ponoend ofd-ope-latdl;&sooludee in
ive   endclc  -aobertttero   aancetos   ilha   clieie   oonosh   ocoe   o  h   er   hoygPtalno   ai
of tlrob-ricrol deohoor  tdor ouephce  ofPicca   ehp  ierg roi                        .r.re  publi  por thousand poosio:eoYde                   ....od  Vrosnr
PesloP lao c-th-eo   coeo  fenidrsc)-vrsogtf oce                                                   t    orlordi   er  ct,o  rtoPrItrtino   '  eero oefo
ocoer cictobccn_ar110  peers   I11, it              r- th-cootool- derce pno,              tCONSUMTOeNsoCruainlatoao    tccuc                               h   rrgo
lodo  f  oo  Produc icn       Cai9   190-71d100)- cdco   s   oiaoul                     Oit   uclutcac  va  Cota00  es     ted-o  h  oooo
nocooocl atuouto pooducer price uslrhia.~~~-  d-9t1-6)   90 I nd 1979 data.        Ttl Lao.       ots....ds      outtal    cit   ees,  ilde
PrC    euotOl  fclco   preti   ecoets       optdfoieedtre     duepoe   u  nooludiog Ocofc I...inee                                                                  . :.udots  etc.
oaor~rqucrlentof nt food  edpioyolbei  cucypyc  iarneioopltoio  slae.1fuiin   in-h                                                                oecocrs    r
qunoncua   nfo   ycs  ua1n   oaei   loiuln    eulc                                   aiutr   pree      oo  force-              frsico  foreeiry, t hote  rod.
sod ir,h ...cubu- co  oh- popudoc -pii, end  -ll _li  10,l percent too o                        o   lorcty   itrsd 0cc~ as. I.r.;s                 oftota  labor tu is190
no Uol   ffo  prdy.ntapipo   odI   e he   ssoe                        s               ccoctopofccvs         htyuad    stoa,  sacsj.t, oodfemllbrTotea
qoocrt   o   lloootiscocltolh   OA  rod  frhneo                                                  oosoasofOtl  noeedtaspop                     ulat n--ion of. oIl ages t rpctd y
olo ioc   ont   oreohoc     oyb tnp   dyed20ga,o  sldod190   90   ood10   os    hs   o d                                                 oYo..t 11.0'  p Ttlip tit.rrs
F   oWD    coh     fcb   0  ro   hud  ealclpnih.Tet  en-vflRhoo'oocuoo    f  h   oooto,cdbgtisdsd 
oncoolornhoooooctSneeoootprtioidltsioifretisisrstoetftldolp-udoss
-n --    rc--a--ohrA  toiecnd  pooedO   ADi  h  Thirotoooolc  oroecytto  -tno d--delo  coed1   n                                                                             Iodoe
Idod-fV.d  P-oot         P-ny   9h-h it 1970 and 1907 data,  o                                  to b tdbr   y- t ic f iatno  force. j.:"                         t
orhce nono donic ~d-foo  lift nu jlt. 160 1961-6 end,179doa                                oft  Ttoihds
un hhtO,.tote  :97  ond19790e00                                                         end should---hr-i-oerocrIo7d obot cone ucditg  osthot
ofoc  po  nbcoo - oIn t--kt.  I.heoloPc poorony  1totobo    it1 ObtOcm   co   ro   ho      uta
corsolf    no (c0000ofd     outp   uol  tta ..bt.codJualg   Oic-tudiooi_b   cucyoedirt-nu  ocoo .o no-ofdoqfrrtt  o
tonfpoyllotolorcn   enroolllooeIon                    ibooreeceoc                        tfodalo
corooyt  (ncotoocutdou lo osoop        t oruto-d  boocnuuur                          totodiloo  PoioOoc   on   U)otcno)-  ns   i   oe
ourouoo,hofo0oooothoroleepior,odeionryrlececueloctooorryccoooolcoe-bcdn    nrro   irs7t
pocorouore   hiho:ortytocor oooloihca.   Lo,nuohnurrcauhlhcroreorl(toitottnnnrth 'AlYoarrr-rodro...t...oe.I                                           rd
oncond cc   tocidno000do ...i.ro.Poro(toe  57_e ofconhdbodyo   orhiht  ocoo979to   r  ct                                                                         d res
ooohd,oeo  oooonccnouoohtuooo   cohuhorr   00001   its                oooondPooltiottocleoucPtoro   ocarirnl(aroOt-utd
oruochiroootuco 10Inplootn or ousoto o  nobee  f oo  ooshud                 od  ott  -Prorto o  ppoltln  (olr ad  ura)  to  rr"ebolrt
Onn, o0  n   todc0 7oIynDiono o   oOrods   rfo--                tto                      00'
Pitrolo'7 sc-oor,ncrIo.                                                                                                                          Ite
too~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i".                              -       !                      t :naolloooto.                                P. 1901        Po--I
PorltiopoPy b_ oc  of Pop-utun io  d             -ir   yocr   n  oooopyi
000  od(osl  oodot  0000.pronoa   ohr-i. -nO         2 eceton- curses



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                                       Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population      :  119.0 million  (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,050 (1980)
Indicator                                      A=ount                         Average Annual Increase (I)                     Share of GDP at Market Prices (I)
(Million US$ Current)                    (at Constant 1970 Prices)                               (at current Prices)
1981                    1965-70      1970-75     1975-80      1981-86              1970        1975        1981 bh
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product /a                               284,003                    7.7        10.6          6.9          2.0             100.0        100.0        100.0
Agriculture                                            29,196                   1.9          5.7          4.7         4.5               10.2         10.9        12.0
Industry                                               77,115                   9.2         11.6          7.6           .08             35.8         37.2        31.9
Services                                              135,275                   8.0         10.7         6.8          4.1               54.0        51.9         55.9
Consumption                                             230,325                    7.7         9.8          5.7          3.3              77.8         76.6        81.1
Gross Investment                                         55,328                    9.4        14.6          5.2          3.6              22.7         21.3         19.5
Eiports of Goods and NFS                                 25,575                   8.2         11.2          7.3          6.5               6.7          7.5          9.0
Imports of Goods and NFS                                 27,199                  14.5         17.2          2.8         4.4                7.2         11.4          9.6
Gross Domestic Savings                                 53,677                    7.9        12.9          6.1          -                22.2         23.4         18.9
Amount                     Average Annual Increase (5)                 Composition of Merchandise Trade (1)
(Million US$ Current)                (at Constant 1970 Prices)                           (at Current Prices)
1981                   1970-75          1975-80       1981-86                   1970          1975         1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                     23,393                 11.1               7.7              2.8                    100.0         100.0        iOO.0
Primary c/                                             8,954                  8.3              1.1                .8                     76.7          62.7        38.3
Manufactures d/                                       13,358.6               28.2             18.2              5.6                      22.5          34.8         57.1
Merchandise Import                                      22,080                 14.8              -3.3              1.2                    100.0         100.0        100.0
Food (cereals)                                         1,077                 -6.7             17.5              8.8                       4.5           3.0          4.8
Petroleum                                             11,333                  7.6              4.3            -11.0                      11.2          25.4        51.3
Machinery and Equip-ent e/                             4,020                 15.2             -7.5              2.0                      36.2          32.2         18.2
Other                                                  5,650                 28.4             -1.9              4.3                      48.1          39.4         25.7
1975            1976            1977            1978            1979            1980               1981
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 - 100)                                       305.1           444.3            632.7           892.5         1,399.4         2,724.6          5,696.8
Exchange Rate (CrS/USS)                                           8.1            10.6             14.1            18.1            26.9            52.7             93.1
Export Price Index (1970 - 100)                                 176.0           192.0           226.0            228.0           266.0           290.0            305
Import Price Inden (1970 - 100)                                 242.0           255.0           286.0            317.0           389.0           431.0            461
Terms of Trade Indem (1970 - 100)                                72.0             75.0            79.0            72.0            68.0            67.0             66
As 1 of GDP
(at Current Cruzeiro Prices)
1970             1975              1979              1980 g/        1981 g/
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                                                        16.6              19.8              20.8               19.7           18.0
Current Expenditure                                                                    14.4              15.8              17.6               17.8           17.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                              2.2               4.0               3.2                1.9             .5
Capital Expenditure                                                                     2.6               3.8               3.7                6.6            6.3
Financing (Net)                                                                        -0.4               0.2              -0.5                4.7            5.8
1965-70            1970-75             1975-79                1981-86
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (X)                                                                    7.7                10.7                 5.8                    2.1
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (X)                                                         4.6                 7.7                 3.0                   -0.5
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (X)                                                     7.2                 7.3                6.5                     -
ICOR f/                                                                                2.9                 3.0                3.9                     3.2
Margimal Savings Rate f/                                                              20.5                25.7               22.7                    24.0
I=port Elasticity   f/                                                                 2.2                 1.6                0.3                   -0.6
a/   At market prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation amd indirect
taxes less subsidies.
c/   Includes:  coffee (beans and soluble), other agriculture and minerals
d/   includes:  manufactured and semi-processed
e/   Includes:  transportation materials
f/ the 1981-86 projections are average arithmetic mean of the six-year
g/   1980 and 1981 include government expenditures effected through the monetary budget and some minor governmentg foods.
August, 1982
Source: Conjuntura Economics (FGV), banco Central do Brazil, Brazil Standard Model (World Rank)



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~88 2J 
U0lh50P1!67Shfl.  U0IL61  dM761, 610D 0XI?
e9X_"  *   t eufret p110..
Populaton:        119 .1111cc (1960)
GNr Per COfitO,    3902,050 (1980)
1975         1976         1977         1978          1979         1990         19861            7- X         1IM3 fljL                  985          198t
F1n   of 9020800
Net export.  of good od    nt6ee                                    -6,702       *6,018       -6,057       4,006       -10,039       -12,564      -11,173          -13,986       -6485        -7,099        -4029          -638
*            Export. o~~~~~f goode                                              560        (10,120)    (12,120)    (12,639)    (15,2667         (20,130)    (23,293)           20,516       23,363        07,476       02,001       36,870
I.9prt. of Good.                                               (-2 ,20)   (-12,383)   (-12.023)   (-13,863)   (-18,084)   (-22,955)   (-22,060)                 -20,000      -17,006       -201114      -22,767      -240250
Net fe,IO, Loo..                                                 -1 733        -2,189       -21,56       -3,207       -4,821        -6,621       -9,549           12,031      -12.650      -13.250      -13,028      -12,905
(of ottoh oct Lotereet pyee-t.(1,                             (-1.496)      (-1,810)    (-2,103)    (-2,696)    (-6.185)        (-6,01(7     (-9.179)         (10,70)       (11,639)    (12.031)    (11,690)    (11,677)
Net noo-feooor rexolo..                    .                     -1,629        -1,574       -1,578       -1,605       -2 378       -3,120        -2,37           -2 469          -178         -209         -255          -338
0c0 treoefeoe                                                            2            1             -           71           19          168          197              197          197           197          197          197
8                                 tCurrent 000040 belen..                              -6,700       -6,017       -6,037      -4,015       -10,021       -12,396      -10.976         -13,789       -4,288          -692       -3,832          -441
-toxot poiotce I-to 20t /6                                             92           959          810        1,071        1(.91         1,121.0      1,569            1,691        1,763        1,961        2,204         2,464
08L1  ben. net                                                       4,830        0,562          5    1     O0,019        5,297        3,670.0      9,571 i         10,692        ,5 08        7,507        4,126           785
Treditti. .  ouooe                                                  (955 )     (1,167           59        1           (1,62)        (1.652.6) 4  (,314)           (, 126)      (46125)      (3, 93)      (2,981)       (2,314)
floeoi.1 noedlte                                                 (6,027)       (7,015)      (9,226)     (13,716)     (10,296)      (8,632.3)  (10,113)          (12,656)       (9,132)    (12,778)    (10,508)         (9,282)
Asoortle.loo                                                    (-2,1001      (-2,618) 2    -3,633)    (-5,146)    (-6,.31)         (6,610 0)  (-7,856)          (-7,190)    (-7,644)    (-9,236)   (-10,369)   (-12,086)
Exert hat loo.. obrood (net)                                         -190          -269         -267         -357         -610           416         -702           -1,014       -1,146       -1,499       -1,966        -2,298
Other oapitl ne1.                                                      218          956       -1,526         -463           628        o,063        1,393.0          2,201         -137            71            _3
Chlan. L. eeeroee           ..-..ocec() /0                               950       -1,192         -630       -6,262         5,215        3,321         -855              400          --        -1,138          -531         -513
Interno tonl Re.oro  /d                                                4,041        6,544        7,056       11,839         9,699        6,915        7,005            7,015        7,105        8,243        8,774         9,287
6 --rv--x *- co-th. of tyoxte/,                                                   6     9.3           7.2         10.3          6.6          0,6         461               6,3          5,0           4,7          4,6          6,6
1975         1976         19              8         1979          1980         1981
Ottornal 0.60
Totol debt outctatdlng ayl und da aod                              123,298       09,683       36 61 95 o.6,639          51,562        36,863    61,600 /f
ruSi  co  pblioy gu-etod1,0                                                    17369        2105         3,29         3,78         3,6 
orfittl   couro.                                                3,959        6,431         6,717        5,901        5,889        9,6
180D                                                         (1,093)      (1,217)      (1,413)      (1,602)       (1,827)      (2 069)           -
Other                                                        (2,898)      (3,114)      (3,309)       (5,799)      (6,062)      (4,347)            -
t r9,747     2 13918     14,878       23 ,63       29,189        31,8644
PoI-t. oo-go ..eoxead.                                             9,092       11,133       13,00        1602         1,66          1,0
UndLcburc.d debt (publLo only)                                       3,879        6,620       89411        10 209       12 468        16 -4
Goee Dibeo..r.ecct
Tott1 a,ro.  dleborc..eot of M&LT logoc                              6,981        9,160        9,282       15,166       11,729        11,00
P,ubiL  end pubL, oly  uexenteed                                   7,788        6,621        5,622       L0,116        9,152        9,993
Iffolel export oxedlc                                             428           405          169          490          448          497             -
IBID                                                             25           173           298          275          302          234-
Other eulttlt l ...I                                              119          112           92          I6           206           192
PrIvate  2ource                                                1,991        6,233         4,862        9,216        9,197        5,892             -
fol.ote  on-gua..nteed                                           3,194        3,239         3,861        5,048        2,579        2,192
Gbt Ber-lic
Totel d.bt e,ole   pay.ent.                                        4t195         4,322        5,642        8,252        11,147       10,169       15,554
Iteeet (net)                                                    (1,677)      (1,423)       (1,651)      (2,457)      (3,0553)      5,412)            -
Peymeoe Oe 2 0I  topoxor  rod N95                                      4360         3857         42 3         56            66           60 0         61.0
epeyetc  Oe X of GOP                                                    2.9          2.6         350            3.7         463           6.9          -
loe^age locaxeet octe oo the pohlio debt (5) /                            9.7          7.6          9.3           9 9         11 2         1 2. 
Ott total cotroec                                                       7.7          7.9          8.0           7.0          8.3          8.7          -
oerale etYtultty of on   .a.eo3teed ben                                                             10.          1.           11.3         10.3 6
Offlolel aooroe                                18.6         16.3         19.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0:  16.5  16,0    13.6          -
Pri-at .ource                                                           7.0          9.3          8.7          9.3          11.2          9.5
090G!Etppeurc
16RD4.7                                                                              6.3          6.1          0.6           3.6          3            -
03RD dtIboeectent/toooa  goose dietuocecote (S)                         3.5          2.1          3.2          1.9           2.6          3. 4
IBRD dabt c_otoe/not-e  debt eeinoe (0)                                 2.5          3.2          3.7          0.7           2.2          2.1          -
. 2I of totel debt oooeI-dtoE
at cod of Dcoeob.r 1980       /h
OxbtOoouo
oaoorIOyaoronro of dobt  --oeaodtng
Hetorittee dot olttit 0  oesro                                                                  67
Notootixoe doo otobto 10 pearo                                                                  13
/a fetinete
/S focloditg rx-iovxaoed poofite
In  bOceGodIn  dolico neloatLto  a4juetseeoesoad eoonetia.tion of dosetie gold
/;9 Itniodlog gold atd dollar valuettooc djoeoaete
Ic Goode only
IT' Dxooileotenveilablo
liovblin debt only
/h, Prooiriood=
/I 000H
v 1: AreefI l nodeod teodel (Obold tao?)
/krte    Oetn  Co93Lnc tro ;do SOe,l,Y; togteoo,,l xbro Date  (toO)  78-81 (borld Saab)
Novmbero 1962
Giek No.2:Oot. Title. balpayc. Dire:  Ootte/l or (TfalGo   fox Free. Re.p(



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-four loans fully disbursed                                  1,950.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0           3.2
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0           14.3
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5            5.4
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads              110.0           12.2
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0            8.5
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0           16.6
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0            1.0
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0            7.9
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0             6.5
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0          25.6
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture         40.0            3.4
1300   1976  Eletrobras                         Power               50.0             .3
1302   1976  Brazil                             Nutrition            19.0            .6
1317   1976  Brazil                             Agro-Industry       83.0          47.9
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                          Power               82.0           14.7
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development  42.0             8.4
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          52.0            3.4
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do              Fertilizer          55.0            1.7
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                             Education           32.0          21.8
1488   1977  Brazil                             Rural Development  17.0            11.5
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage           110.0          66.4
1537   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  24.0            18.9
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                         Power              130.0          49.5
1557   1978  Brazil                             Roads              114.0          84.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                            Petrochemicals      85.0           8.6
1563   1978  Brazil                             Urban Transport    88.0           28.7
1568   1978  Brazil                             Agric. Extension  100.0           67.9
1589   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  37.0           27.0
1654   1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sites & Services   93.0           50.8
1656   1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water & Sewerage  100.0           73.1
1660   1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.              Aluminum            78.8           2.9



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
A.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1714    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   26.0           22.9
1720    1979  Brazil                          Urban Development   70.0           53.7
1721    1979  COPEL                           Power               109.0          72.6
1728    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   40.0           33.4
1729    1979  Brazil                          Irrigation           28.0          15.8
1730    1979  Brazil                          Roads               110.0          87.3
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control   58.0           57.9
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                 Water Supply        130.0         100.7
1824    1980  CEEE                            Power               114.0         111.1
1839    1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport    159.0          154.6
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply          139.0         104.7
1867    1980  Brazil                          Education            32.0          30.4
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   63.0           60.0
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                       Power               125.0         123.6
1924    1981  Brazil                          Rural Development   56.0           49.7
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                54.0          51.9
1965    1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport      90.0          88.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply          180.0         153.2
1989    1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Devt.       250.0         247.1
2015    1981  Brazil                          Agriculture          29.0          25.5
2016    1981  Brazil                          Agriculture          60.0          56.7
2060    1982  Brazil                          Agriculture          67.0          63.0
2061    1982  Brazil                          Health               13.0          12.0
2062    1982  Brazil                          Highways            240.0         217.8
2116    1982  Brazil                          Agriculture          26.4          26.0
2138 /_  1982  ELETROBRAS                     Power               182.7         182.7
2163 /1 1982  Brazil                          Agriculture          26.4          26.4
2170 /1 1982  Brazil                          Urban Development  123.9          123.9
2177 /1 1982  Brazil                          Rural Development   42.7           42.7
2193 /1 1982  Brazil                          Urban Development    8.9            8.9
2196 T1 1982  CVRD                            Iron Ore            304.5         304.5
Total                                             6,998.9 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 991.0
Total now outstanding                             6,007.9
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            45.5             0.3
Total now held by Bank                            6,007.6
Total undisbursed                                               3,401.9
/1   Not yet effective.
Th   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



ANNEX I I
- 24 -                                                                     Page 3 of 15
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of September 30, 1982)
-Iscal                                                                                                                                      Amount In USS million
year                                                    Obligo,                                             Type of Business               Loans    Equlty   Total
1957                     Siemens do Brasil Cta. do Electricidade                                   Electrical Equlpnent                     2.00        -        2.00
1958                     Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                                          Pulp and Paper                           1.70        -        1.20
1958                     D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                                          Automotive Parts                         0.45        -        0.45
1958                     Wil)lys-Overland do Brasi, S.A. - Industrla e Comerclo                    Motor Veh i es                           2.45        -        2.45
1959                     Cnmpanhia Mlneira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                               Cement                                   1.20        -        1.00
1959                     Champion Celulose, S.A.                                                   Pulp                                     4.00        -        4.00
1966/1968/1972           Acos Villares, S.A.                                                       Steel                                    6.00      1.93       9.93
j966/1969                Papel e Celulose Catarlnense, S.A.                                        Pulp and Paper                           3.76      3.41       7.19
'957/1972                Ultrafertil, S.A. - Indusirla e Comerclo de Fertilizantes                 Fertilizers                              8.22      3.03      11.25
i969                     Petroqulmica dnlao, S.A.                                                  Petrochemicals                           5.50      2.88       8.39
1970                     Pollolefinas, S.A. Industria e Ccmerclo                                   Petrochemicals                           5.50      2.89       8.35
'971                    Oxiteno, S.A. Industrla e Comerclo                                         Petrochemlcals                           4.60      1.44       6.04
i971                    Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                                  Pulp                                     4.90        -        4.90
1972/1975/1981           Companhla de Climento Naclonal de Minas                                   Cenent                                 169.14      6.70     175.84
973/1974/1977/1981      Ccnpanhla Siderurgica da Gunabeara - COSIGUA                              Steel                                   76.97    11.22       88.19
1973                     Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                                  Capital Market Development               5.00        -        5.00
i973/1978                Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Minerals - CODEMIN, S.A.    Nickel Mining and Refinenr                     85.00      8.34      93.34
1974                     IndustrIas Vi lares, S.A.                                                 Elevators and Industrial Equlpment   6.00            -        6.00
?74                     Fabrica de Tecido Taluape, S.A.                                           Textiles                                31.00        -       31.00
975/1979                Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                                          Carbon Black                             6.13      1.10       7.37
1975                     Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                                    Petrochemicals                          10.00        -       10.00
1976                     Santista Industrla - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                             TextiIns                                 6.45      1.00       7.45
1976/1980                Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinenme do Nordeste                             Textiles                                16.20        -       16.20
1977                     FM8 S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                                           Iron and AlumirKm Castings             20.00        -       20.00
1977                     Mlneracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                               Mining                                  15.00        -       15.00
i978                     Clmetal Slderurgla S.A.                                                   Iron and Steel                           7.00      3.00      10.00
979                     Volvo do Brasil Motores e Velcules, S.A.                                  Motor VehIcles                          60.00      5.27      65.77
980                    Rerlng do Nordeste S.A. - Mal has                                       Ready-made Garments                         2.00        -        2.00
980                    Dende do Pare S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura, Industrla
e Ccmerclo de Oleaglrsosas                                          Palm Oil                                   3.50      1.00       4.50
980                     Vlliares Industrias de Base S.A. - VIBASA                               Iron and Steel                             5.00        -        5.00
980                     PPi - Conpanhla Industrial de Pollproplleno                             Chemicals and Petrochemicals              15.00      2.00      17.00
980                     Destilarla Clanorte S.A.                                                Chemicals and Petrochemicals                 -       0.25       0.25
980                     Sotave Amazonla Qulmica e Mlneral S/A                                   FertilIzers                               16.00      4.00      20.00
1980                     Pollsul Petroqulmica                                                    Chemicals and Petrochemicals              43.00      5.00      48.00
981                     Brasllpar                                                               Money and Capital Markets                  -         1.50       1.50
981                     Companhla Brasl elmr  de Agropecuarla - C08RAPE                         Food and Food Processing                   5.50      3.00       8.50
i981                     Trlunfo                                                                 Chemicals and Petrochemicais              46.00      4.00      56.00
982                     Clmento CAUE                                                            Cement and Construction Materials         40.00      5.00      45.00
982                     lochpe Agro-Industrinl  S.A.                                            Money Capltal Market                      30.00      0.45      30.45
983                     Corepanhia Rlo Grandense de Partlcipacoes (CRP)                         Money Capital Market                         -       0.72       0.72
Total Gross Commltments                                                                               771.74    79.21      850.95
Less Cancellatlons, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                                560.32    12.16    572.48
Total Comnmitments Now Held by IFC                                                                    211.42    67.05    278.47
Total Undlsbursed                                                                                     159.28    14.02    173.30



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of September 30, 1982 1/
As of September 30, 1982, there were 56 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is nearing completion. Procurement has been
completed.  Four of the six generating units have been in service
since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981. A cost
overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and of
the Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27, 1974;
Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating. Progress in implementation of
the enlarged project is satisfactory. However, there might be a need
to postpone the Closing Date to June, 1983 to complete disbursements.
Overall costs are within reviewed estimates. A local project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is approaching completion. All project components,
except DNER's Weighing Stations Program (Phase I) and some state
highway rehabilitation works in Minas Gerais, are substantially
completed.  Construction of the weighing stations has been
hindered by the financial difficulties of DNER which have left
the stations program without the necessary funds. The program
is being reformulated and is expected to be completed in late
1983.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Measures for ensuring completion of the CSN
project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios according
to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in June 1982.
Despite this, however, the project remains virtually stopped and
the company's financial position has continued to deteriorate.
This situation has arisen due to: delays in the granting of
price increases and the provision of equity funds; lower cash
generation due to weak steel markets; and difficult international
credit markets which have prevented CSN from raising the long-
term funds it needs. In light of this situation, a meeting in
Washington is planned for late November to review with the
Government and CSN the progress being made in meeting the
commitments for 1982 and proposals for 1983 which, taking into
account the likely available internal and external resources in
that year, will result in an optimum balance between progress on
project implementation and achieving an acceptable level of
liquidity for CSN.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date:  March 4, 1976; Closing  Date:
December 30, 1983. Measures for ensuring completion of the
COSIPA project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios
according to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in
June 1982. Despite this, however, the project remains virtually
stopped and the company's financial position has continued to
deteriorate. This situation has arisen due to: delays in the
granting of price increases and the provision of equity funds;
lower cash generation due to weak steel markets; and difficult
international credit markets which have prevented COSIPA from
raising the long-term funds it needs. In light of this situation,
a meeting in Washington is planned for late November to review
with the Government and COSIPA the progress being made in meeting
the commitments for 1982 and proposals for 1983 which, taking
into account the likely available internal and external resources
in that year, will result in an optimum balance between progress
on project implementation and achieving an acceptable level of
liquidity for COSIPA.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983: The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
drop the Brejo Grande varzea from the scope of the project and
reallocated funds to the construction of civil engineering works
unforeseen during the project evaluation phase. The Closing Date
was postponed to September 30, 1983. CODEVASF operations on
production activities continue to improve substantially. The
rate of disbursements has risen sharply and about 95% of the
loan is now disbursed.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
costs in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment in train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural DeveloDment Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date:  July 30, 1976;  Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.  Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but progress in recent months has been encouraging. A proposal for
project reformulation, including expansion into seven new munici-
palities is currently being considered.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.  The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBPD participation to its initial level. Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project was completed in
early 1982, resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or
construction of 5,210 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision
of about US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional
financing of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical imple-
mentation of the project, which had reached 50% as of March 31, 1982,
is now progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan have
reached 53% as of September 30, 1982, and are expected to be completed
by the end of 1983.



- 2 8-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40,0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. With the removal of constraints on the levels of
incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Latest indications (10/15/82) are
that the necessary levels of counterpart funding and project
implementation are being sustained during 1982, and that the
project should be completed by about end-1982. The Closing Date
was postponed to June 30, 1983.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Except for a small portion (about 8%) of COELBA's subproject all
works have been completed. A balance of about US$300,000 will
remain undisbursed and will have to be cancelled. The agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems stlll remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now disbursed.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursenents for the second loan began only in 1981.
Difficulties arising from competing credit lines at subsidized
rates and inadequate monetary correction have ended. Arrangements
for monitoring the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed
with the Government. The project has been progressing well in
very difficult economic conditions. The loan is expected to be
fully committed shortly. A third project is due to be appraised
in October/November 1982.



2 99 -                        ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date:  June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
sufficient time to meet retention payments on equipment contracts.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A second, final post-
ponement of the closing date by 18 months to permit completion of
project activities including a program for further strengthening of
institutions responsible for marketing, farm management extension,
and community development, is being envisaged.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date:  August 31, 1977; Closing Date:  November 30, 1982.
The plant has been completed and was formally inaugurated in
September 1982. The plants are operating satisfactorily. The
costs to complete the project are expected to be about 15% below
the appraisal estimate. The Closing Date was postponed to
November 30, 1982.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date:  July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants. Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products bv about 20%. The Closing Date was
postponed to December 31, 1982.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US832.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of hotel training centers.
The presidential decree approving the legal and financial definition
of SENAR was signed, which now Permits this component to be fully
implemented.  The Closing Date was postponed to June 30, 1985.



-3 0-                           ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. The project has been reformulated with a
special focus in the remaining years on the Carrasco sub-region.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1985.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities. Project
completion is expected to be delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Financial and managerial problems created significant delays in
project implementation over the first two years, but the situation
improved markedly with a reorganization of project administration
and the reformulation of several components. Nonetheless, the
project has recently encountered new difficulties which will require
reorientation of management and agricultural development activities.
The state is currently undertaking a complete evaluation study,
which will include a proposal to reformulate certain aspects of the
project and to extend the Closing Date.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily. The Closing
Date will be postponed by two years to December 31, 1984.



- 3 1-                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under tne project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because of
financial constraints imposed by the federal government.  Highway
rehabilitation works were reactivated by mid-1981 but at a slow
pace because of inadequate funding. The maintenance program in
the state of Parana is progressing well.  The second phase of the
weighing station program will not begin until the first phase
(under Loan 1075-BR) has been completed and the effects monitored.
The Project is being reformulated to reflect current priorities.
Project completion could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 97%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October/November 1982. The anticipated cost to complete
the project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorilv although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely with
state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementation.
The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981/82. Partial exemption
to re-imposed Government hiring restrictions (12/28/81) are being
arranged by EMBRATER, on a state by state basis to prevent a serious
slow-down in project development. Hiring restrictions are only part
of the problem in some states however, mostly in the North and
Northeast, where lack of counterpart funding to pay additional
staff salaries is now the key issue. Administrative changes, due
to election results of November 15, 1982 could well cause some
delay in project execution during early 1983 until the new state
administrations become familiar with project objectives.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improve.L but lack of land purchase credit is hampering



s- 32j-
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
and the execution of the education and water supply components are
approaching appraisal targets.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. Contracts for the last housing
scheme of the Project will be tendered at the end of October, 1982.
The Bank has approved a proposal that will offer a solution to the
problems which have caused slow progress in this project and an
amendment to the Loan Agreement was signed earlier this year.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which will not be utilized. Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982. There is a cost
overrun of about 8%. The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices. The Closing Date
was postponed to January 31, 1983.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with most
project components. Extension services achieved very close to
first year targets and exceeded second and third year targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Planned investments in the first four cities included in the project
have practically been completed, and it is now expected that all
investments will be completed within the revised schedule.



- 33-
ANNFX II
Page 12 of 15
(The loan's closing date was postponed from December 31, 1983 to
December 31, 1985). Two of the additional three cities incorporated
into the project last August were already appraised during October,
and the last city is expected to be appraised during the first
quarter of 1983.  About 60% of the loan is expected to be disbursed
by October 1983.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1933. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. All project components have progressed slowly,
mainly due to delays in the release of federal funds.  Urgently
needed road maintenance has not yet begun because of funding
problems in the municipalities. Project administration and
management is gradually improving, but further improvements in
coordination among the agencies involved in execution is still
needed.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
developed by PETROBRAS in the Brejo Grande sub-area has led to
the dropping from the project of previously planned irrigation
and drainage investments there. The monitoring unit has been
installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date:  December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have reached
US$22.7 million by the end of September 1982, which is in line with
appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.



34 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 mi:Llion loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation proceeded
satisfactorily, though the company is facing financial difficulties
which, if not resolved, could delay project completion.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule,.
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28. 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 uillion loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about twelve months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during calendar years 1980 to 1982. The delay is expected to be made
up for during the remaining period of project implementation. To this
end, the PIU is preparing a reprogramming of the remaining project
implementation schedule, which will constitute the basis for discus-
sion with the forthcoming supervision mission. A substantial impact
evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. Previous plans for co-financing
have fallen through, leading to financing problems which have slowed
project implementation such tnat some reformulation of project targets
is being considered.  Subject to these constraints, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Pro ect:  US$125.0 million loan
of October 6. 1980; Effective Date:  December 16, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date:  July 7, 1981;  _Dsing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding slower than anticipated,
mainly due to funding delays and institutional problems. Some remedial
actions are being taken.



-3 5-                         ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965.     Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Implementation of this project is about twelve months behind schedule.
Corrective measures are being taken to bring the project back to its
original schedule as a result of recent (July 1982) discussions held
in Brazil.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily.
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All parts of the program are progress-
ing satisfactorily, although the production component may suffer
temporary delays due to financial stringency at the national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing, Date: December 31,
1986. Although project start-up was delayed because of the late
receipt of funds, implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily,
with over 300 beneficiaries of land redistribution and several
hundred more titles to be distributed in the next few months.  Other
components have also progressed well, although limited execution
capacity has slowed progress in small-scale irrigation and water
supply, and delayed the establishmeiit of the State Land Institute.
Overall, project administration is functioning well.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays occurred during 1932 as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, Government
restrictions on hiring (12/28/81) are necessitating special arrange-
ments by EMBRAPA to overcome these restrictions on a case by case
basis. Assurances have now been received from SEPLAN that, commencing
with CY83, there would be full allocation of essential counterpart
funding for the project.
2060      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase:
Agriculture Project:  USS67.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Construction of agricultural infrastructure is proceeding faster
than initially assumed, but there have been some delays in transfer
of funds to local implementing agencies. There has been erratic
progress in environmental component and project coordination
structures, with the exception of Amerindian protection program
which has been progressing satisfactorily.



3-                           ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
2061      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Health Project US$13.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Project start-up is generally satisfactory. The construction
program is proceeding according to schedule but some critical
delays have occurred in the implementation of the malaria control
program because of budgetary constraints at the national level.
2062      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Highway Project: US$240.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Construction of the Campinas-Ariquemes highway, the main project
component, is progressing well in most of the 19 construction lots
into which the highway is divided. Works started in October 1981
and are scheduled for completion in 1985. The quality of works
is good and DNER's supervision, assisted by six consultants, is
adequate. The strengthening program for the Rondonia Highway
Department is experiencing start-up difficulties because of
management changes. The situation should improve in 1983 with
the start of the technical assistance financed under the project.
2116      Northwest Region Development Program; Second Phase; Mato Grosso
Rural Development Project; US$26.4 million loan of May 12, 1982;
Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Delays in funding have slowed initial construction activities.
Additional extension staff are being trained and other start-up
activities are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
BRAZIL
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
a)   Time taken to prepare project:            12 months
b)   Agencies which prepared project:          BNDES
c)   First presentation to the Bank:           August 1981
d)   First mission to review project:          November 1981
e)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:           May 24, 1982
f)   Completion of Negotiations:               October 20, 1982
g)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:            March 1983
Section II   Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  The executing of appropriate arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank between the Government and BNDES for transfering the loan
resources to BNDES would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 36).
(b)  Approval by BNDES of the Consolidated Statement of Policies and
Procedures of its Project Area responsible for the Project would
be a condition of effectiveness (para. 37).
(c)  The principal of the subloans would be corrected for changes in
inflation according to the ORTN index. Interest rates to be
positive over the life of the subloans and to be reviewed
periodically by BNDES and the Bank to ensure that they reflect
changes in money market and economic conditions. Subloan
maturities would be up to 10 years, with up to three years of
grace (para. 45).
(d)  To ensure that interest rates to final beneficiaries remain
positive the adjustments for inflation to the ORTN index would be
monitored closely.  It has been agreed that, if the adjustment of
the principal of BNDES loans, together with the interest rates
applicable to such loans shall, in the Bank's opinion, fail to be
positive in relation to the prevailing inflation rate in Brazil,
commitments and disbursements could be suspended (Section 2.03(d)
of the draft Project Agreement and Section 5.01(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement) (para. 50).






IBRD-15685
it'     (VVENEZUELAA                                                                                        40'                    A RIL 1981
- j-SURINAME\GUIANt
C O L O M B I Ar.                        B.. tma
Man                                                56c,Lui~~Maopo
A     . A  N    /C
*       -    F 0i         t/ *(-;-     ortalec.
O C F A V   |    | i   >,r   ' PARAG;AY 0  <   ;              N   2                 -             O~~~~~~~ C   E A   N
j-6 )}W_   _,,,H                   lQURUGUAY0)                           MlLESd   Ido  2do  3dz     --   Internationalboundariratal
Veiho  n ~~~~~~~~~~~~-d.   .   7~~~~~~~  .JBPesnoa
ror'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*rct
Salador
Cuiab6                   l~~~~~~~~ederal
,-.                    ~~~~~~~~BRASILlAI'
B 0   L I V  I A                       ~~~~~~~~Goianida
P A C I F I C                                           Campo Gromd~~~~~N     'I                                     TO
(                 Crump~~~~o                            H ea12~AL1
-20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hoiot  idi A T  LAN T  C
0 C E A N                         ~~~~\PARAGUAY \~(R                                                                        CA
.\  ~ ~ ~~~0Sdo P'olo,                           5,,EA 
C H I L   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ,'~                             Rio de Janeiro
j SOU                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~Florira,o oi               BRAZIL
0   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~Notional capitol
AM  *               t0in'0 '0pp,. r                               ..         1~                                            Stote and territory capitals
oATiNii ,roii                                                          ii       KiOEES 1020  0  0  0                  State and territory boundaries
MILES 6 Lo 20 02           --international boundaries
URUGUAY                                                       Rivers                          0
00'  r                3~~~~~~50'                    42'3



