CONFORMED CDPY
LOAN NUMBER 2225 BR
Loan Agreement
(Second Development Banking Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Dated December 21, 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2225 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(hereinafter called BNDES) will carry out the Project, with the
assistance of the Borrower, and as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to BNDES the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(C) BNDES intends to borrow from foreign financial institu-
tions loans equivalent to approximately $150,000,000 for purposes
of financing its 1983-1984 lending programs, which include the
Project;
(D) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and BNDES;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Sche-
dule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set


﻿-2-
forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Financial Intermediary out of the proceeds of the Loan to an
Investment Enterprise or a Shareholder for an Investment Project.
(b)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and BNDES of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement.
(c) "Shareholder" means the shareholder of or partner in an
Investment Enterprise to which a Financial Intermediary proposes
to make or has made a Sub-loan, the proceeds of which shall be
transferred to the Investment Enterprise in the form of equity
contributions for purposes of an Investment Project.
(d)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a
Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan
and which falls under one of the following categories: (i) pri-
vately owned enterprises with total fixed assets (including the
investment proposed to be financed under the Loan) not exceeding
the equivalent of 500,000 ORTN and not controlled or owned by
private enterprises with consolidated equity exceeding 1,000,000
ORTN, operating in productive, distributive or service aciivities
(except agriculture and housing); and (ii) privately owned
enterprises with total assets exceeding those referred to in (i)
above operatir- n industrial or agro-industrial activities.
(e)  "Investment Project" means a specific development pro-
ject eligible for financing under the Loan and in accordance with
BNDES Project Area III Regulations to be carried out by an In-
vestment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan, pro-
vided that in the case of the Investment Enterprises referred to
in paragraph (d) (ii) above, the total estimated cost of the
development project shall not exceed the equivalent of 1,000,000
ORTN.
(f) "Financial Intermediary" means a state development bank
or a regional development bank or an investment bank or a state
commercial bank with development J3nding functions, approved by
BNDES to participate in carrying out the Project in accordance
with BNDES Project Area III Regulations and the Lending Policies.


﻿- 3-
(g) "Financial Intermediary A" means a Financial Interme-
diary with a free-limit (limite de algada) set by BNDES equiva-
lent to 150,000 ORTN or more.
(h) "Financial Intermediary B" means a Financial Irzerme-
diary with a free-limit (limite de ag1ada) set by BNDES below the
equivalent to 150,000 ORTN.
(i) "Estatutos" means the statutes of BNDES as set forth in
Decreto No. 73,713 of the Borrower, dated March 1, 1974, as
amended to the date of this Agreement, as such statutes may be
amended from time to time.
(j) "BNDES Project Area III Regulations" means the Normas
Reguladoras do Programa de Operacoes Conjuntas POC approved by
the Board of BNDES pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b)
of this Agreement.
(k) "Lending Policies" means the lending policies and pro-
cedures approved by the Board of BNDES pursuant to the provisions
of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(1) "BNDES loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by BNDES to a Financial Intermediary for purposes of an Invest-
ment Project and partially financed out of the proceeds of a
Sub-loan.
(m) "BNDES free-limit loan" means a BNDES loan which falls
within one of the following Categories:
(i)  "Category 1 BNDES free-limit loan" means a BNDES
loan made to a Financial Intermediary A which is
above the limit set forth in sub-paragraph (iii)
below and does not exceed the sum of 225,000 ORTN
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding
amounts financed out of the proceeds of a BNDES
loan for the respective Investment Project;
(ii)  "Category 2 BNDES free-limit loan" means a BNDES
Loan made to a Financial Intermediary B which is
above the limit set forth in sub-paragraph (iii)
below and does not exceed the sum of 150,000 ORTN
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding
amounts financed out of the proceeds of a BNDES
loan for the respective Investment Project;


﻿(iii)  "Category 3 BNDES free-limit loan" means a BNDES
Loan which is above the limit set forth in sub-
paragraph (iv) below and does not exceed the sum
of 150,000 ORTN equivalent in respect of a Finan-
cial Intermediary A and the sum of 100,000 ORTN
equivalent in respect of a Financial Intermediary
B, both when added to any t :her outstanding
amounts financed out of the proceeds of a BNDES
Loan for the respective Investment Project; and
(iv)  "Category 4 BNDES free-limit loan" means a BNDES
loan which shall not exceed 40,000 ORTN equiva-
lent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed out of the proceeds of a BNDES loan for
the respective Investment Project.
(n)  "ORTN"    means  Obrigacoes  Reajustaveis   do  Tesouro
Nacional, the Adjustable National Treasury Bonds established
under Law No. 4357, dated July 16, 1964 of the Borrower, as such
law may be amended from time to time.
(o) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.03 of this Agreement.
(p) "Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil.
(q) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by BNDES or by any one or more
subsidiaries of BNDES or by BNDES and one or more of its subsi-
diaries.
(r) "cruzeiro" and "Cr$" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred and twenty million dollars ($220,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so


﻿-5-
agree, for amounts to be paid) by BNDES to a Financial Interme-
diary on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise
under a Sub-loan to meet: (A) 50% of disbursements under a BNDES
loan for payments made for the reasonable cost of goods and ser-
vices for Investment Projects consisting of the acquisition of
fixed assets and provision of permanent working capital related
to such acquisition; (B) 12.5% of disbursements under a BNDES
loan for payments made for the reasonable cost of goods and ser-
vices required for Investment Projects consisting of provision of
permanent working capital; provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has
been approved by the Bank, or the Sub-loan is a BNDES free-limit
loan (other than a Category 4 BNDES free-limit loan) for which
the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expendi-
tures before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by
an Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval if such expenditures shall have been made more
than 180 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have re-
ceived in respect of such Sub-loan the application and informa-
tion required by Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement or, in
respect of a BNDES free-limit loan, more than 180 days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
BNDES free-limit loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03 (a) The Borrower shall cause to be opened and
thereafter maintained a Special Account in the Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.    Payments out of
the Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reason-
able cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project
and to be financed by the Bank under this Agreement in accordance
wi'h the provisions of Section 2.02 above.
(b) The Bank may, after the Effective Date and at the
request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account an
amount in dollars of up to $15,000,000. In the event the amount
of such initial deposit into the Special Account is less than
$15,000,000, the Borrower may from time to time request the Bank
to withdraw from the Loan Account and make one or more additional
initial deposits into the Special Account, but in no event shall
the amount of such initial deposits exceed in the aggregate


﻿-6-
$15,000,000. At the request of the Borrower, the Bank shall fur-
ther withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Spe-
cial Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the Spe-
cial Acccunt for expenditures for the Project eligible for
financing under this Agreement, but only to the extent that the
amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such request,
shall not exceed $15,000,000. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
determine, each such deposit after the initial deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the same cate-
gories set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, and in the
same respective amounts, as have been justified by the documenta-
tion for the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to para-
graph (d) of this Section.
(c) Prior to or at the time of each request for a with-
drawal by the Borrower from the Special Account, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Central Bank an application for withdrawal
from the Special Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture showing that the payment was made on account of the reason-
able cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement.    The Central Bank shall authorize
the Borrower to withdraw from the Special Account an amount in
cruzeiros determined on the basis of the foregoing evidence, and
shall debit the Special Account with the dollar equivalent of
such amount in cruzeiros determined on the basis of the rate of
exchange between the dollar and the cruzeiro in effect at the
time each payment was made by BNDES.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Bank into the Special Account, the Central Bank shall fur-
nish to the Bank in respect of each withdrawal from the Special
Account an application for withdrawal from the Loan Account on
the basis of the certificates of expenditure referred to in para-
graph (c) of this Section.
(e) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Loan
Account, or (ii) was not justified by the certificates of expen-
diture furnished pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise determined by the Bank, prior to any further deposit in


﻿- 7 -
the Special Acount by the Bank, deposit in the Special Account an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.
(f) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (b) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when the Bank shall have determined, after consulta-
tion with the Borrower, that all further withdrawals from the
Loan Account may be made directly by the Borrower from the Loan
Account pursuant to Section 2.02 above, or when the total amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account plus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any special com-
mitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions, shall have reached the equivalent of
$190,000,000, which rer shall be sooner.     Withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the remaining amount of the Loan for the Project
shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Bank and shall be made only to the extent that the
Bank shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted in support of
the applications for such withdrawal that all payments by the
Borrower out of the Special Account were made on account of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December il, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and BNDES of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Inter-
est Period.
(b) For purposcs of this Section:
(i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.07 of


﻿-8-
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii)  "Qualified Borrowings" means (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or the se-
cond six months of a calendar year.
(c) As soon as is practicable after the end of each Semes-
ter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to three million two hundred fifty-one thousand two
hundred and thirty-two dollars. ($3,251,232).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedu'e set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. BNDES is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Sections 2.02 and 2.03
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Transfer of the Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist BNDES
in financing such productive facilities and resources in Brazil
as will contribute to the economic and social development of the
country. The Project consists in:
(a) the financing of Investment Projects through loans to
Investment Enterprises and Shareholders made by the Financial
Intermediaries in Brazil, in furtherance of such corporate pur-
poses of BNDES, as are provided in the Estatutos, BNDES Project
Area III Regulations and Lending Policies; and
(b) carrying out of studies on the industrial sector in
Brazil and on trade policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank in order to make available to BNDES the
proceeds of the Loan for purposes of the Project on the same
financial terms and conditions of the Loan.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not change or fail to enforce the provisions of the
arrangements referred to in (a) above.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1984, carry out, or cause BNDES or other specialized
agency acceptable to the Bank to carry out, the studies described
in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement in accordance
ith terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank; (b) promptly upon their completion, review with the Bank
the results of such studies; and (c) Larry out or cause such
studies to be carried out with the assistance of consultants or
institutions with experience and qualifications satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿- 10 -
nor,ial circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall have the Special
Account audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank and, promptly after the audit and not later than four
months after the close of the Central Baik's fiscal year, the
Bank shall be furnished with certified copies of such audit,
together with a certified copy of the auditors report, including
a description of the audit procedures;


﻿- 11 -
(b) the Borrower shall cause to have furnished to the Bank
each month certified statements of the Special Account, and from
time to time such other information concerning such Special
Account and such certificates of expenditures as the Bank shall
reasonably request; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the Special Account and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BNDES
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accord-
ance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Estatutos which
will materially and adversely affect the execution of the Proj-
ect;
(c) the adjustment on the principal of the BNDES loans
together with the interest rates applicable to such loans shall,
in the Bank's opinion, fail to be positive in relation to the
prevailing inflation rate in Brazil;
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by BNDES, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect BNDES carrying
out of the Project;
(e) BNDES shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of BNDES under the Project Agreement;
(f) any party to the arrangements referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations thereunder;
(g) any provision of the BNDES Project Area III Regulations
on the Lending Policies related to BNDES Loans or Sub-loans shall


﻿- 12 -
have been amended, waived or abrogated without the Bank's concur-
rence therein; and
(h) any action shall have been taken for the dissolution or
disestablishment or liquidation of BNDES or for the suspension of
its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (g) or paragraph (h) of Section 5.01 shall occur;
and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) or paragraph (e)
or paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and BNDES.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of BNDES have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, that BNDES has approved and made effective the BNDES Pro-
ject Area III Regulations and the Lending Policies, both on terms
satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)  the Bank has been furnished evidence, satisfactory to
the Bank, that the arrangements referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement have been made; and
(d) the Loan Agreement has been registered by the Central
Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General


﻿- 13 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, BNDES and
is legally binding upon BNDES in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the arrangements referred to in Section 6.01 (c)
of this Agreement, have been duly and validly performed or en-
tered into;
(c) that all acts, consents and approvals, together with
all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have
been duly and validly performed or given and that no other such
acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize
the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and
BNDES, respectively, to perform all of the covenants, agreements
and obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement and BNDES
in the Project Agreement contained; and
(d) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the
Central Bank.
Section 6.03. The date of March 23, 1983, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Brasilia, D.F., Brazil


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:
MINIFAZ
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico e Social
Av. Republica do Chile 100
20139 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Cable address:                   Telex:
BADEC                            0213389 BNDE-BR
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank ior
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 15 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Joailce Maria Montes de Azevedo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR.
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Nicolas Ardito-Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 1986                 9,165,000
through   July 15, 1997
On January 15, 1998                           9, 205,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premius on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
The Interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per
annum) applicable
to the balance
outstanding on the
Loan on the day of
prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
before maturity                               0.20
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                      0.40
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               0.73
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                               0.87
More than thirteen years
before maturity                               1.00


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in paragraph (d) of Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted
under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall
have been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been de-
nied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may
by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the Bor-
rower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.       Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


