Document of          =                  W a &
The World Bank    FILI CUI o
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2561-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
COMPANHIA PARANAENSE DE ENERGIA ELETRICA - COPEL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
COPEL SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
May 22, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Calendar 1978          May 10, 1979
Currency Unit  -       Cruzeiro (Cr$)             Cr$
US$1           -       Cr$18.3                    24.65
Cr$1           -       US$0.055                   0.041
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAEEB        -    Companhia Auxiliar de Empresas Eletricas Brasileiras
CEEE         -    Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica
CESP         -    Centrais Eletricas de Sao Paulo S.A.
COPEL        -    Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica
DNAEE        -    Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
ELETROBRAS   -    Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
ELETROSUL    -    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A.
FURNAS       -    Furnas-Centrais Eletricas S.A.
GGF          -    Global Guarantee Fund
GCOI         -    Grupo Coordenador para Operacao Interligada
GWH          -    Gigawatt hour (million kWh)
kcal         -    kilocalorie
IDB          -    Inter-American Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 - Cr$18.0)
corresponds to the Cruzeiro selling rate as of June 30, 1978.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
COPEL SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica - COPEL
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$109 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years,
at 7.9% interest per annum
Project
Description:       The project is part of COPEL's program for the expan-
sion of its power subtransmission and distribution
system during the period from January 1, 1980 to
June 30, 1983. COPEL's overall program, of which
the project forms a part, will provide the facilities
required to serve the expected loads in COPEL's
service area (the state of Parana), mostly related
to industrial growth. The program will also make
public service electricity available to about 45,000
new low-income urban consumers and in connecting
about 50,000 new rural consumers. The project
includes the following:
(i) Subtransmission: Construction of about 810
circuit-kilometers of subtransmission lines at
230 KV, 138 KV and 69 KV and installation of about
2,120 MVA of additional transformer capacity;
(ii) Distribution: Construction of about 2,250
circuit-kilometers of distribution lines at
34.5 KV and lower voltages, and about 590
circuit-kilometers of feeders, and installation
of about 410 MVA of additional transformer
capacity, for the connection of about 415,000
new consumers;
(iii) Auxiliary facilities: Modernization and enlarge-
ment of laboratories and acquisition of maintenance
and operation equipment; and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iv) Consultants' services: About 245 man-months of
consultants' services for preparation of bidding
documents and equipment fabrication inspections.
The project faces no special risks.
Estimated Cost:                                -----US$ millions----    % of Base-
Foreign  Local   Total   line Cost
Subtransmission                 45.31   42.94   88.25        34
Distribution                    62.45   47.38  109.83        42
Auxiliary facilities            13.81   12.28   26.09        10
Engineering and
administration                  -     32.43   32.43        13
Fabrication inspection           0.80    1.31    2.11         1
Total baseline cost       122.37  136.34  258.71       100
Physical contingencies           6.45   16.40   22.85         9
Price contingencies             32.98   47.12   80.10        31
Total Cost                161.80  199.86  361.66       140
Financing Plan (1980-83 investment program):
Requirements:  1/                                            US$ millions
Proposed Project                             281.56
Other works                                  279.66
Interest during construction                 114.16
Working capital                               (1.22)
674.16
Sources:           Net internal cash generation                 203.72
Equity (from sector sources) 2/              156.00
Other equity (from non-sector sources)        52.72
Borrowings:        Proposed IBRD loan 3/                         88.76
Other borrowings                             172.96
674.16
1/   Allowance for price increases not included.
2/   Includes states and municipalities reinvestment of sole tax
proceeds, customer contributions in aid of construction, and
purchases of new shares.
3/   Does not include price contingencies to be financed out of loan proceeds
(US$20.24 million).



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                          US$ millions equivalent -----
Bank FY   1980   1981   1982   1983
Annual                     2      25      62      20
Cumulative                 2      27      89     109
Rate of Return:      14% for COPEL's 1980-83 investment program.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2411(b)-BR of May 3, 1979






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO COMPANHIA PARANAENSE
DE ENERGIA ELETRICA - COPEL
FOR A COPEL SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica - COPEL with the guarantee of the
Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$109 million to help
finance a power distribution project in the state of Parana. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace with interest at 7.9%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on that
report and on subsequent information.
3.        A new Government, headed by General Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979 for a six-year term. In its
inaugural statements, the new Administration has emphasized the need to
reduce inflation and limit the growth of aggregate demand in accordance with
Brazil's balance-of-payments constraint.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased at more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite significant trade liberalization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
relative income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that
most Brazilians did share in the absolute improvement of living standards that
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth of
public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum needs must be imported. Thus,
as a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports
rose from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports
also swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
1/   This part is reprinted from the corresponding part of the President's
Report for the Sergipe Rural Development Project (No. P-2554-BR,
dated May 16, 1979).



- 2 -
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or 7%
of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the sud-
denly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic problems
of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.        Brazil's capacity to manage the oil crisis has been enhanced by its
strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of its manu-
factured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets, combined
with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and the opportun-
ities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import substitution.
Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high national growth
expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the authorities were initially
reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted instead toward
increasing control over imports, which were held approximately constant in
nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort, accomplished
through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a positive merchand-
ise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current account deficit was
reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged 7.6% per year between
1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the
authorities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained above 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional
international reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.        The rate of GDP growth rebounded to 6.3% in 1978, despite a 2%
decline in agricultural output. The agricultural failure was caused by a
serious drought in southern Brazil which resulted in the loss of an estimated
30% of the soybean crop, 17% of corn output, 5% of rice, and 18% of cotton.
The resultant reduction of exports and increased need for imports cost the
economy an estimated US$1.5 billion in foreign exchange, about two-thirds of
which was attributable to reduced soybean exports. An important bright spot
in the picture was a 36% nominal increase in the export of manufactured
goods. Total merchandise exports rose only 3.5% compared to a 13.4% increase
in imports.
9.        Interest payments abroad increased sharply as a combined result
of substantial borrowings and a steep rise in the London Interbank Rate (LIBOR),
to which most of Brazil's financial credits are tied. The current account
deficit thus rose to 3.0% of GDP in 1978. Total debt service on medium- and
long-term debt (public and private), net of interest earned on Brazil's re-
serves, rose to 59% of exports in 1978, from 49% in the previous year. Part of
this increase, however, was associated with a further US$3.8 billion increase
in international reserves. By the end of the year reserves had grown to
US$11.7 billion, or about 8 months of projected 1979 import equivalence
(including non-factor services). Inflation remained at about 40% in 1978,
for the third consecutive year, despite continued curbs on credit and public
sector investment. The drought-related contraction of agricultural output



and the rapid build-up of international reserves contributed to the price
pressures. These pressures intensified in early 1979, while labor disputes
which had occurred sporadically in 1978 affected much of the public sector of
Sao Paulo as well as teachers in the major cities. The new Government
responded to the rise in inflation by adopting a new package of measures during
April 1979. The major components of the package are a temporary price-freeze
on supermarket sales, stricter enforcement of existing price control regula-
tions, new restraints on private sector foreign borrowing, and severe limits
on domestic credit expansion.
Poverty Programs
10.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts towards
the relief of poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of
areas. Coverage of the social security program, for example, has been
expanded and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban
population is now covered by the social security's health care system, and a
cash transfer program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Under
this latter system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age
are eligible to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an
amount which is almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural
Northeast. The urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program.
Almost 2 million loans have been made by the National Housing Bank since 1964
for housing. A sites and services program was established in 1975 to
benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a
program to finance home improvement and building materials. High priority
has also been given to the extension and improvement of urban water supply.
Consequently, some 6 million households comprising about 30 million people
have been connected to public water supply systems since 1971, increasing the
proportion of urban dwellers who receive such services from 60 to 75%.
Efforts have also been made to attack the poverty-related problems of adult
illiteracy and malnutrition.
Future Prospects
11.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil monopoly. Investments have been acce-
lerated to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate
nuclear power production, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline for automotive
use, while efforts have been made to induce energy conservation. The results,
however, have thus far been limited, and with oil now constituting 30% of
Brazil's merchandise imports, as compared to 11% in 1973, the trade-off between
growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal
preoccupation of economic decision makers.
12.       The Government that took office on March 15 has acknowledged
that the balance-of-payments constraint and the need to reduce the rate of
inflation mean that Brazil must undergo a period of carefully moderated
economic growth. As noted above, a number of measures toward this end have
already been announced, including some increases in taxes and further reduc-
tions of public expenditures, credit, and subsidies. To assure the efficient



- 4 -
execution of these and future fiscal and monetary policy decisions, several
important institutional reforms have been set in motion. These include:
consolidation and improvement of information flows and centralized control
over the public sector budget, integrating the operations of the far-flung
semi-autonomous agencies and public enterprises; incorporation also into the
budget of many of the subsidized credit programs currently handled outside
the budget through the Central Bank; and elimination from the Central Bank of
its gradually accumulated development banking functions. Important also in
this context, as well as to the efficiency of resource allocation, is the
decision to phase out over four years both the excess rebate of taxes to
exports and the prior deposit requirement on imports, and compensating these
actions through gradual real devaluation of the cruzeiro. Indications are
that Brazilian industry would be internationally competitive, even without
export subsidies, over a wide range of manufactures if an appropriate real
exchange rate is maintained.
13.       Growth is expected to average at most 5-6% per year in 1979 and
1980, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-78. But barring further
unforeseen difficulties that would constrain the availability of external
resources, it might be possible in subsequent years to reaccelerate the
economy gradually to a growth rate of 7-8% by 1985. Such growth rates would
be compatible with a declining current account deficit in relation to GDP and
a falling debt service ratio.
14.       This prognosis depends heavily on the continued vigorous growth of
manufactured exports, though at a rate more modest than that of the past 15
years. The export of manufactures grew at a real average annual rate of 28%
in the decade 1964-74, this pace dropping off only during the world-wide
recession of 1975-76. The momentum resumed in 1977 and 1978 with real growth
rates of 29 and 20%, respectively. By comparison, the growth rates assumed
in the projections -- 18% per annum during 1978-80 and 12% per annum in
1980-85 - do not appear unreasonable, particularly in view of the broad
diversification of Brazil's manufactured exports in terms of both products
and markets.
15.       Also assumed is the continuation of Brazil's vigorous import-
substitution effort. The present substitution program was initiated prior
to the oil-related balance-of-payments difficulties in recognition that the
growth and increasing sophistication of the domestic economy had made possible
the efficient production of many capital and intermediate goods requiring
large-scale operations and advanced technology. Major projects were conse-
quently undertaken for the production, inter alia, of fertilizers, steel,
aluminum, other basic metals, and petroleum. The installation of hydroelec-
tric capacity could also be properly viewed in this context. Although public
investments will be restrained in coming years as part of the new Government's
announced stabilization program, these sectors will continue to receive
priority.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       Despite the successful effort to restrict imports after the rise
in oil prices, the maintenance of high growth rates after 1973 has required a
substantial increase in Brazil's external indebtedness. By the end of 1978,



- 5 -
the total of public and private external debt outstanding had risen to
US$41.0 billion, as compared to US$12.6 billion at the end of 1973. As noted
earlier a significant fraction of this borrowing was added to Brazil's inter-
national reserves, which increased from US$6.4 billion to US$11.7 billion over
the same period. This "excess" borrowing occurred largely in response to the
steadily improving loan terms available to Brazil in 1977 and 1978, which
provided the economy relatively low (net) cost insurance against future exter-
nal shocks and offered many private borrowers an alternative to expensive
domestic credit.
17.       A gross capital inflow of US$14.9 billion was required in 1978 to
cover the current account deficit (US$5.7 billion), amortization payments
(US$5.4 billion) and the reserve accumulation (US$3.8 billion). After
accounting for direct investments and short-term outflows, total medium- and
long-term credits (disbursements) amounted to US$14.3 billion. Financial
credits accounted for US$11.4 billion of the total.
18.       Brazil is expected to show a growing resource surplus beginning
around 1980, reaching US$2.0 billion by 1985. Rapidly increasing net factor
service payments abroad, emanating from both interest payments on its large
debt and royalties for imported technology, could reach US$7.5 billion by
1985, however, resulting in a continuing current account deficit through the
first half of the 1980s in the range of US$5.0-5.5 billion. But in proportion
to GDP, the current account deficit would fall to less than one percent by
1985.
19.       Gross borrowing requirements are expected to fall sharply to about
US$6.9 billion in 1979 as a combined result of the reduced growth rate and
the Government's announced intention to draw down reserves by about US$3
billion. Thereafter, gross borrowings would rise steadily from US$11.5 billion
in 1980 to US$16.1 billion by 1985. Net borrowing would grow from US$3.8
billion to US$5.8 billion over the same period. The need for external finan-
cing is thus expected to grow somewhat more slowly than in recent years and
significantly less rapidly than the rate of growth of exports. As a conse-
quence the net debt service ratio (including both public and private debt)
would peak at about 60% in 1980, falling steadily thereafter to 40% by 1985.
20.       In summary, Brazil is a dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient
economy in which policy makers have demonstrated repeatedly their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances when needed. After a period of very rapid
growth in the late 1960s and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of pet-
roleum imports has forced the nation to moderate its growth expectations and
to adapt its economic structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjust-
ment process was eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of inter-
national creditworthiness, aggressive expansion of its manufactured exports,
and the ample opportunities for efficient import substitution offered by its
large domestic market. Nevertheless, Brazil's continued heavy dependence on
petroleum imports, the resurgence of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumu-
lation of external debt in recent years indicate that the process is not yet
complete. The new Government recognizes the need to restrain the growth of
aggregate demand for the next several years while continuing, with greater
selectivity than in the past, to make the investments necessary both to sustain



- 6 -
the progress of export expansion and import substitution and to alleviate
poverty. The task of economic management will not be easy, but the outlook
is favorable. The current analysis shows no diminution of Brazil's capacity
to service its existing and future debts. Moreover, the fact that imports
are small relative to GDP and that because of Brazil's size and diversity
most imports are residual in nature -- i.e., fill the gap between demand and
existing domestic production capacity -- means that relatively small changes
in the overall economic growth rate will generally suffice to adjust to
unforeseen shocks to the balance of payments. Brazil thus remains fully
creditworthy for continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1979 the Bank had approved 85 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$4,178.2 million, of which 42 were not yet fully disbursed. During
FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching US$202
million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77 and US$252 million in FY78. Dis-
bursements are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1979 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Over the FY75-78 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling
US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in FY77
seven loans totalling US$425 million and in FY78, nine loans totalling
US$705 million. So far in FY79, three loans totalling US$291 million have
been approved: a US$100 million loan for a water supply and sewerage project
in the northeast, a US$93 million loan for a sites and services and low-cost
housing project, and a US$98 million loan for an aluminum project. The
documents for a US$26 million loan for the Sergipe Rural Development Project
and for a US$70 million loan for a medium-sized cities project have been
recently distributed to the Executive Directors. Work is relatively advanced
on the preparation of an industrial pollution control project in Sao Paulo, a
second irrigation project in the lower Sao Francisco River basin, a power
distribution project in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, an integrated rural
development project in the northeastern state of Pernambuco, a rural primary
education project in the northeast, and a second feeder roads project.
We expect to propose loans for these projects in the near future.
23.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1978, amounting to US$24.7 billion, the Bank held about 7.3%. The
Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 5.2%. When Brazil's total
(public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in the
total outstanding at the end of 1978 was 4.4%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.6%. By 1980, the Bank's share in total
outstanding debt is expected to rise very slightly, while its share in total
debt service falls to about 1.7%.
24.       As of March 31, 1979, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$395.2
million, of which US$270.2 million had been cancelled, repaid or sold. Of
the balance of US$125.0 million, US$93.8 million represents loans and US$31.2
qiillion eiyity. A summary of IFC's investments as of March 31, 1979 is given



-7-
Lending Strategy
25.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is to help
intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that
will increase productivity and income of the lowest income segments of the
population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. The loans for nutrition research and develop-
ment, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension
and polder construction in the Lower Sao Francisco as well as for integrated
rural development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara,
Paraiba and Bahia were all designed to assist low-income groups in rural
areas. Additional projects designed to assist low-income groups in rural
areas are in preparation, including a second irrigation project in the lower
Sao Francisco river basin, and a rural education project and several integrated
rural development projects in the Northeast. The loans for water supply and
sewerage in the state of Minas Gerais, Greater Sao Paulo and the Northeast,
for urban transport in five major cities, and for sites and services and
low-cost housing are assisting to improve the living conditions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach
low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation: a second urban transport
project, an integrated urban development project, a water supply and sewerage
project for three southern states and an industrial pollution control project
for Greater Sao Paulo.
26.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the trans-
portation sector where there has been emphasis on the selection of invest-
ments, the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of
railways' financial performance. Loans for electric power, water supply and
sewerage, industrial finance, agricultural research and extension, and urban
development also have important institution-building objectives.
27.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since it is
based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the need
for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemicals projects
is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient domestic
production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending for agro-
industries in the Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this objective
and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways,



- 8 -
ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economic flow
of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to
expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil in view of the country's ample supply of high-grade iron
ore and the scale of its internal markets. Likewise, the recently approved
VALESUL Aluminum Project would substitute aluminum imports with domestic pro-
duction relying on Brazil's abundant hydroelectric resources for power and on
Brazil's ample reserves of bauxite for raw material.
28.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue to need for some time in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued substantial lending by the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there.
In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on
more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and commercial financial
institutions. Since 1976, nine co-financing operations totalling more than
US$365 million have been concluded with private financial institutions and
several others are in preparation. In connection with the proposed project,
COPEL is negotiating a commitment of US$60 million with several private banks
to complete the financing plan for its expansion program (of which the proposed
project forms a part). We propose to provide the usual co-financing links for
the commercial bank financing with the proposed Bank loan (see para. 61).
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resources and Utilization
29.       The estimated total gross consumption of energy in Brazil in 1978
was 109,733 M.T.o.e. (0.93 T.o.e. per capita) 1/ and it is expected to grow
at a rate of about 6% per annum in the next 5 years, reaching about 1.11
T.o.e. per capita in 1983. Oil products account for about 42% of the national
energy consumption, mineral coal, wood products and wastes 32% and hydro-
electricity 26%.
30.       Brazil's proven oil reserves are limited.  Present domestic produc-
tion of crude covers only 15% of the country's requirements and is concen-
trated in the northeastern region. To increase domestic production govern-
ment accelerated exploration in the last several years by granting risk type
contracts to private concerns, putting an end to government monopoly in this
field. Under current projections as to future consumption and production,
Brazil's dependence on imported petroleum could decline to around 63% by 1985.
Bituminous and sub-bituminous coal reserves which are located in the southern
1/   T.o.e.:  tons of oil equivalent, approximately 10  kcal; M.T.o.e. -
1,000 T.o.e. Data source: Ministry of Mines and Energy, Balanco
Energetico Nacional, 1978.



region are estimated at about 3,200 million tons. Coal extraction is rather
costly because shaft mining in predominantly required. Nevertheless, coal
is an important fuel used in thermal generating plants in the South.
31.       Brazil has vast water resources with a potential for hydroelectric
development estimated at about 200,000 MW, of which only about 21,600 MW have
been utilized. An additional 35,000 MW are scheduled to be in operation by
1990. Many watersheds could be developed economically but they are rela-
tively remote from the demand centers. In addition to the future hydroelec-
tric plants, 3,000 MW of nuclear generating capacity has been scheduled for
operation by 1985 in the southeastern region, the largest demand center in the
country. The first unit of 600 MW, supplied by Westinghouse (USA), is expected
to be in operation in 1980. The Brazil-Germany agreement of June 27, 1975
provides for the supply of an additional 2,400 MW in nuclear plants and
a Brazilian option for six additional 1,200 MW units. The configuration of
major generating and associated transmission facilities in Brazil has few load
concentrations. Under pronounced differences in regional hydrological regimes,
electrical interconnections can economically substitute or attenuate comple-
mentary thermal generation. This diversity in hydrological regimes exists
between the southern and southeastern regions, where a high voltage inter-
connection is under construction with Bank financial assistance (Loan 1343-BR).
Other electrical interconnections are being considered by sector authorities
leading towards least-cost intra-regional investment programs.
32.       Other fuels used include firewood, charcoal and sugarcane bagasse.
Firewood is used only in some small industries and for cooking in rural and
some urban low income households. Charcoal is also used for cooking, in blast
furnaces and steel mills. Bagasse is burned to produce steam in sugar milling.
These fuels represent about a quarter of Brazil's energy utilization and would
probably not increase. Among other energy sources of lesser current signif-
icance in Brazil is natural gas, with apparently small reserves in northeastern
fields for local supply. There are few sites for tidal energy development,
and geothermal fields have not yet been discovered. Brazil has been active in
exploring alternative energy sources; the largest endeavor has been in the
use of alcohol as fuel in internal combustion engines. In the power sector,
tests are being conducted on wind-driven generators and on use of electricity
for public service that was obtained in association with production of steam
for a petrochemical plant.
The Role of the Power Sector in the Economy
33.       The continued growth of reliable electric service is essential for
the development of the country's industries, which in 1977 used 57% of all
electric energy consumed while accounting for about 40% of Brazil's GDP, con-
tributing about 45% of export earnings and providing for about 33% of all
non-agricultural employment. The rate of growth of electricity consumption
was 1.20 times that of GDP for the period 1962-75 while from 1970-75, it was
1.28 times that of GDP. From 1974 through 1977, electricity consumption grew
at about 12% p.a. while GDP grew at about 7% p.a., resulting in a rate of
growth of electricity consumption with respect to GDP of about 1.7. This
increasing trend in the rate of growth of electricity utilization with respect
to Brazil's GDP reflects an apparent substitution of electricity for other
energy sources.



-- 10 -
34.       In 1978 electricity generation amounted to 110,000 GWh; its annual
rate of growth since 1973 has been 11% with per capita annual consumption in
the same period going from about 550 to 830 kWh. The southeastern region,
with 42% of Brazil's population accounted for about 71% of the total electricity
generation utilized in the country in 1978. The southern region, with 18% of
the population, utilized 12%. In the last five years, electricity generation
in the southeastern region grew at 11% p.a. and at 15% in the southern
region. The southern region, comprising the states of Parana, Santa Catarina
and Rio Grande do Sul, has an area of 577,723 sq km, or 7% of the Brazilian
territory; Parana has about half the population of the region and in 1978
utilized about one-third of the region's electricity generation.
Sector Organization
35.       Though complex and one of the largest in the world, the sector is
well organized and the policies well formulated and applied. Decree 68,204
of June 7, 1967 established the current sector organization, under which the
Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica (DNAEE) performs regulatory
functions, grants licenses for generating plants, assigns concessions, sets
tariffs and approves expansion plans; Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A.
(ELETROBRAS), a holding company for those utilities owned by the federal
Government, administers public funds for use by its subsidiaries and state-
owned utilities, and coordinates external borrowings, expansion plans for
major generating and transmission facilities, and operation of interconnected
systems in the country's network.
36.       The five geographical regions are served by ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries
(bulk suppliers), in conjunction with state-owned utilities (principally in
distribution) as follows: Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil (ELETRONORTE)
for the North and part of the Central-West; Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco (CHESF) for the Northeast; Furnas-Centrais Eletricas (FURNAS) in
the Southeast and part of the Central-West; and Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil (ELETROSUL) for the South. A joint Brazil-Paraguay authority (Itaipu
Binacional) has responsibility for the Itaipu hydroelectric project, under
construction in the Parana River, where it defines the border between the two
countries.
37.       Government guidelines contained in the 1967 decree promoted concen-
tration of public electricity services in the individual states into single
state-owned utilities. These utilities are responsible for transmission and
distribution within the respective states and in some cases also operate
generation facilities. The borrower for the proposed loan, Companhia
Paranaense de Energia Eletrica (COPEL), is the utility serving Parana state.
The main exception to the pattern of vesting responsibility for distribution
in single state-controlled utilities is the present arrangement under which
LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A. serves the cities of Rio de Janeiro and
Sao Paulo. ELETROBRAS acquired 83% of the shares of this utility from
Brascan Ltd. (Canada) in January 1979.
Tariffs
38.       Sector legislation provides for utilities to obtain through tariffs
sufficient funds to cover their operating expenses, depreciation, reversion



- 11 -
quota 1/ and a reasonable return on investment. Since 1966, annual revalua-
tion of the assets used as a basis to calculate tariffs, is mandatory. In
addition to the tariff, residential, commercial and small industrial consumers
pay the sole tax (imposto unico) which, since 1972, has been assessed at the
rate of about 25% and 30% of their respective tariffs (industrial consumers
with utilization of more than 2,000 kWh/month are exempted). As a result, the
electricity service charges to the residential and commercial consumers are
among the highest in the world. The sole tax provides about 12% of sector
revenues, 40% of which goes to federal agencies, 50% to the states, and 10% to
municipalities. Another sector revenue source (about 10%) is the compulsory
loan, an investment scheme under which industrial consumers acquire ELETROBRAS
bonds (20-year maturity yielding 6% and revalued through monetary adjustments).
39.       In 1973 DNAEE initiated application of a policy to reduce regional
tariff inequalities in order to promote a more balanced economic development.
By 1976, with minor exceptions, average tariff levels had been equalized
throughout Brazil. In this process, a Global Guarantee Fund (GGF) was created
to supplement the revenues of eligible utilities, allowing them to obtain a
return on remunerable assets of up to 10%. The GGF is financed through a
surcharge of up to 2% (40% of the reversion quota) on assets in operation of
all the utilities. DNAEE has used its control over the GGF to encourage
improved performance by utilities receiving transfers from the GGF. To be
eligible for such transfers, it is required: (i) for the utilities to have a
valid agreement with the state government where they operate for the payment
of all bills in arrears by the state government agencies; and (ii) when owned
by the federal, state or municipal governments, and these have assumed a legal
obligation to reinvest their dividends in the utility, that all such dividends
have been reinvested.
40.       Under Loan 1257-BR COPEL agreed to maintain its earnings (includ-
ing transfers from the GGF) at levels consistent with sound financial and
public utility practices and in accordance with existing legislation. COPEL
also agreed to maintain its eligibility under norms prescribed by DNAEE in
the event it requires transfers from the GGF, and Government confirmed
that DNAEE would allow COPEL a return on remunerable assets of at least 10%.
Furthermore, any change in legislation which would materially and adversely
affect COPEL's financial position would be an event of default. The same
conditions would apply for the proposed loan (Sections 5.06 and 6.01(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement.)
41.       To supplement its efforts to increase the operating efficiency of
utilities through the GGF, DNAEE is now scrutinizing the operating expenses of
utilities more intensively. In some cases, utilities have not been allowed to
recover their full claimed operating costs through tariffs and GGF transfers,
thus reducing the utility's effective return on remunerable investment to less
1/   A federal tax assessed at a rate of up to 5% on assets in operation;
of this, 60% is lent by the Government to ELETROBRAS which uses the
funds to finance investments in the sector and to provide compensation
of private utilities for acquisition of their assets and the balance is
the main source of funds for the Global Guarantee Fund--a tariff equali-
zation facility (see para. 39).



-12 -
than 10% envisaged under the statutory scheme.  In connection with the proposed
loan, the Government has informed the Bank that: (i) in fixing the annual
remuneration to be allowed to concessionaires, DNAEE recognizes all reasonable
costs of operation, administration and maintenance, taking into account the
service characteristics of the concessionaire and the feasibility of increasing
its efficiency; (ii) DNAEE will provide to the Bank, by July 31, 1979, com-
prehensive information regarding the criteria being applied in determining
whether a utility's claimed service costs are to be recognized; and
(iii) DNAEE will exchange views with the Bank regarding the foregoing, and
will inform the Bank of any changes in such criteria.
42.       The legislation summarized above has been used to establish power
tariffs which have enabled most of the Brazilian utilities to attain a reason-
able return on invested capital and allowed them to finance a considerable
share of sector investments. Present tariffs also contain generally appro-
priate features such as separate demand and energy rates for industrial and
commercial consumers, discounts to encourage large industrial consumers to
accept supply at higher voltages, and for rural and minimum residential con-
sumption. However, the tariffs do not provide for differentiation between
peak and offpeak rates, and the equalization feature warrants reassessment.
There are also some indications that current industrial tariff levels may
need to be raised. In order to ensure that the tariffs would provide adequate
revenues, evaluate the economic effects of pricing policy and consider new
rate structures, DNAEE, with Electricite de France assistance, is under-
taking a comprehensive tariff study. Under Loan 1300-BR, Government agreed
to present to the Bank the results of this study, which is expected to be
completed by mid-1979.
Existing Facilities
43.       By the end of 1978 the power sector had about 25,200 MW of installed
generating capacity of which about 86% was in hydroelectric stations and the
remainder in thermal plants (one-third in oil-fired steam units, about 15%
in coal-fired units and the remainder in diesel and gas internal combustion
units). The high voltage transmission system contains about 34,000 circuit-km
at voltages ranging from 230 to 500 kV. Industry, the most rapidly growing
category of sales, accounts for about 57% of total sales. In order to achieve
the most economic operation of interconnected systems, Government established
regional coordinating groups (Grupos Coordenadores para Operacao Interligada--
GCOIs); in July 1973 for the south-southeastern regions and in March 1977 for
the Northeast. In these groups, the regional operating utilities participate
under ELETROBRAS coordination to plan and carry out improved allocation
of loads to generating stations, compensate for diversity in regional load
peaks and hydrological regimes and lower costs through reductions in operation
of thermal plants.



- 13 -
Access to Service
44.       About 80% of Brazil's urban population is receiving electricity
service.  However, the number of people receiving this service in the rural
areas (where about 40% of the population lives) is very low. Government is
promoting expansion of subtransmission and distribution facilities to
provide electricity service to a higher proportion of the population,
particularly in rural areas. The proposed loan would contribute towards this
objective in the state of Parana (see para. 45).
Rural Electrification
45.       Rural electrification on a national level was started in 1970
when the Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria, an autonomous
agency attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, was made responsible for the
planning, promotion and control of rural electrification through consuaner
cooperatives. Progress, however, was slow (4 to 5 thousand customers/year)
and in 1974, ELETROBRAS created a rural electrification department to comple-
ment the Ministry of Agriculture's activities. ELETROBRAS' approach to rural
electrification has been that of financing distribution networks in rural
areas close to existing lines. It does not finance household wiring or
connection fees. ELETROBRAS finances 50 to 80% of the cost of individual
rural electrification projects at a subsidized interest rate of 12% (not
subject to monetary correction) with 15 years maturity including a grace period
of 5 years. The remaining cost is borne by the utilities or by consumers.
The Ministry of Agriculture's program (which has been financed by two Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) operations totalling US$84.4 million, including
US$68.7 million of funds provided on concessionary terms) grants similar terms
to participating rural electrification cooperatives. About 43,000 rural
customers (about 200,000 people) were connected in 1978 through ELETROBRAS-
assisted programs at a total cost of about US$100 million. Of these new
customers, about 44% were located in the southeastern region and 43% in the
South. Over the period 1979-81 ELETROBRAS expects to participate in rural
electrification projects estimated to cost about US$570 million, and provide
services to about 160,000 new rural consumers (800,000 people, of which
approximately 45% in the Southeast, 32% in the South, 3% in the Central-West,
19% in the Northeast and 1% in the North). Under the proposed loan the rural
electrification program in Parana would be significantly expanded. In this
regard, COPEL would present to the Bank for review by November 30, 1979 a
detailed program to provide services to about 50,000 new rural consumers
during the project period, the implementation of which would be completed
by June 30, 1983 (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Sector Development
46.       No constraints have been observed in sector organization that could
adversely affect continued sector development. The high level of investment
required in the sector (about 9% of gross domestic capital formation) and the
Government's present policy of limiting public sector investments as part of
its efforts to control inflation may, on the other hand, affect future sector
investment programs. As a result of a provision of Loan 1538-BR, ELETROBRAS



14 -
expects to complete by the end of 1979 a master plan for sector facility
expansions to the year 2000. This plan should permit assessment of various
solutions for maintaining adequate service reliability while adjusting long-
range investment programs affected by government actions to curb inflation.
47.       Serious constraints could arise in the future if utilities are
unable to obtain revenues sufficient to appropriately contribute to their
own expansion programs. This concern has prompted DNAEE to review sector
financial requirements and tariffs. This study is being carried out together
with the review of the rate structure referred to above (see para. 42).
DNAEE expects to present to the Bank by mid-1979 the results of these reviews,
including an integrated financial forecast for the sector through 1985.
Bank Participation in the Sector
48.       Since 1949 the Bank has made 31 loans in the Brazilian power sector.
Most have been for hydroelectric plants and associated transmission facilities
in the southeastern and southern regions. Bank participation has contributed
to sector organization and planning and facilitated foreign commercial financ-
ing of the sector. 1/ Bank lending has also assisted Government in its effort
to implement tariff policies that have enabled the sector to contribute a con-
siderable proportion of the funds required in sector investments. Project
performance audit reports on hydroelectric plant 2/ and distribution system 3/
projects have been distributed to the Executive Directors. These reports
conclude that, despite construction delays and cost overruns, the projects
were basically successful.
49.       Recently the Bank's principal focus in lending for power has
been in the areas of transmission and distribution: Loan 1257-BR of May 1976
to COPEL for its 1976-79 distribution system expansion program; Loan 1300-BR
of August 1976 to ELETROBRAS for the distribution system expansion programs
of three northeastern utilities; Loan 1343-BR of February 1977 to ELETROSUL
for a high voltage transmission project; and Loan 1538-BR of May 1978 to
ELETROBRAS for the distribution system expansion programs of three state-
owned utilities; two in the southeastern region and one in the South.
The proposed loan would be the second to COPEL and would build on the
successful experience with 1257-BR (see para. 63). Loans 1257-BR, 1300-BR,
1/   Two co-financing operations have been concluded recently in connection
with Bank loans for the power sector: a US$54 million loan from a
syndicate led by Bank of America for ELETROSUL in conjunction with Loan
No. 1343-BR (see President's Memorandum R77-308 of December 15, 1977)
and a US$20 million loan from the Bank of Nova Scotia (Canada) for
COPEL in conjunction with Loan No. 1257-BR (see President's Memorandum
R78-159 of June 26, 1978). A US$60 million private co-financing is
envisaged in connection with the present proposal (see para 61).
2/   Loan 404-BR (Sec.M 77-532 of June 28, 1977); Loans 442-BR and 566-BR
(Sec.M 78-34 of January 13, 1978).
3/   Loans 475/476/477 and 478-BR (Sec.M 75-646 of September 4, 1975).



- 15 -
and 1538-BR all included special programs for the connection of low-income
urban households. Similarly, under the proposed loan, COPEL would expand its
low-income household connection program begun under the first loan, by con-
necting not less than an additional 45,000 such households before June 30,
1983 (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
50.       The relatively rapid economic growth of the state of Parana,
which has been particularly strong in the 1970s and is closely linked with
industrial development in the state, produced proportionate increases in
demand for electricity services provided by COPEL. Expansion of COPEL's
facilities was planned to meet this demand and implementation of the first
program covering the period 1976-79 is scheduled for completion by mid-
1979. The first Bank loan to COPEL (Loan No. 1257-BR, of May 19, 1976)
partially financed the distribution system expansion in this program and
was instrumental in the execution of a plan to provide electricity service
to about 20,000 low-income households. The second major expansion program
would be initiated in July 1979 and completed by mid-1983. The project
proposed for Bank financing would comprise the program's subtransmission
and distribution facilities which are needed to supply the required reliable
electricity services. Bank participation would also be instrumental in
expanding rural electrification (50,000 new customers) and services to an
additional 45,000 urban low-income households. The project was appraised
in November 1978. Negotiations took place in Washington from April 16 to
25, 1979. The Brazilian delegation was headed by Mr. Paulo Procopiak de
Aguiar, Financial Director of COPEL, and included representatives of the
federal Ministry of Finance and Secretariat of Planning. A supplemental
project data sheet, including a timetable of key events and a summary of
special conditions is presented in Annex III. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Brazil-COPEL Second Power Distribution Project," No.
2411(b)-BR, dated May 3, 1979, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.
Area to be Served
51.       The state of Parana, in Brazil's southern region, has an area of
199,554 sq km and, though situated on the Tropic of Capricorn, its climate
is varied. The northern, western, and eastern zones are tropical, while the
central and southern, due principally to higher terrain, are temperate.
Parana has a population of 9.8 million (42% urban, 58% rural), close to 8%
of the country's total; and about one million people live in Curitiba, the
state capital. Parana's share of Brazil's agricultural production represents
about 25% (soya 31%, cereals 20%, cattle 15%, coffee 10%, cotton 6% and
potatoes, sugarcane and various other products 18%). In the early 1960s,
Parana had primitive electricity services; per capita utilization amounted
to 23 watts (86 watts for Brazil as a whole) and total generation in 1961
amounted to 660 GWh, compared to over seven times as much (4,940 GWh) in
1978, when total utilization of all energy forms amounted to the equivalent
of about 5.9 million tons of oil, or 5.4% of the country's total.



The Borrower
52.       The borrower would be Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica -
COPEL, a joint-stock corporation which is the major public service electric
utility in the state of Parana. COPEL was established by State Decree 14-947
of 1954 and charged with the responsibility for planning, building and devel-
oping systems of generation, transmission, transformation, distribution and
sale of electric power in Parana. Before COPEL was established, the electric
power sector in the state of Parana was very fragmented. Service was provided
by Companhia Forca e Luz do Parana (CFLP), 1/ a subsidiary of American and
Foreign Power Inc., as well as by a number of smaller private companies and
municipal entities. There was no coordination of planning to provide electric
power service in the state because of the multiplicity of concessionaires and
the absence of a central coordinating authority; the quality of service was
poor because national tariffs then in effect did not provide the utilities
with sufficient revenues for expansion and also because the utilities did not
have technically qualified staff in sufficient numbers. The decision to
establish COPEL, thus, grew out of the recognition on the part of the Parana
state authorities, of the need for a more effective organization arrangement,
and for better coordination of electric power service within the state.
COPEL has grown very rapidly since its inception and has acquired most of
the other power utilities in Parana, currently supplying about 90.5% of the
electricity services in the state. At year end 1978, COPEL had about 6,600
employees, its installed generating capacity amounted to 420 MW and it had
total assets valued at about US$780 million. Its capital stock was valued
at Cr$3,741 million (US$208 million) of which the state of Parana, its
municipalities, and agencies owned about 86% and ELETROBRAS 13%.
Financial History and Future Prospects
53.       Compared to other utilities in the Brazilian power sector, COPEL's
financial performance has been good, reflecting the effectiveness of its
stable management and its operating efficiency. During the 1975-78 period
COPEL achieved a 10% rate of return on its revalued "remunerable assets."
Its average financial rate of return on revalued assets, achieved during the
period, was about 14.6% which is satisfactory. Consumer-based resources
financed about 22% of total investment during the period which is reasonable
considering that the capital investment undertaken was quite large. COPEL's
financial management has been good. By means of a computerized cash flow
forecast which enables it to estimate its cash needs on a daily basis, COPEL
has been able to keep its cash balances at a minimum while temporary cash
surpluses are invested in short-term securities. At the end of 1977 COPEL's
debt/ equity ratio was 41/59 which provides a reasonable margin for borrowing.
Local currency loans represent about 75% of COPEL's outstanding debts.
ELETROBRAS is COPEL's major creditor accounting for nearly 77% of the local
indebtedness. About 40% of the outstanding foreign currency loans are owed
to commercial banks. Accounts receivable from customers, which had been
high in the past because of delays in payments by state government agencies,
are now at a reasonable level. They declined from the equivalent of 83 days
1/   CFLP was acquired by ELETROBRAS in 1964.  It was the borrower for
Loan 476-BR of December 19, 1966, which has been assumed by COPEL.



- 17 -
sales at year end 1975 to an estimated 68 days sales at year end 1978. This
improvement resulted from a reduction in the billing lag and strict enforce-
ment of the disconnection policy. COPEL is currently implementing a program
to reduce the billing lag even more. The ratio of receivables to billings
is expected to continue to decline and will be monitored during the project's
execution. Notwithstanding COPEL's relative operating efficiency and favor-
able financial performance achieved over the past several years, there are
signs of financial imbalance. For instance, over the 1975-78 period COPEL
received transfers from the Global Guarantee Fund each year in order to
obtain a minimum 10% statutory return on "remunerable investment". 1/ Except
in 1981, it is expected to continue to require transfers from the GGF. The
rate of return obtained for COPEL's investment program suggests that the
overall tariff levels may need to be raised, and the problems described below
point to apparent deficiencies inherent in the existing power sector tariff
and financing policies--among them the cross-subsidization and reversion
features of the tariffs and the appropriateness of the terms of ELETROBRAS
loans (the principal source of borrowing for the utilities). Ongoing studies
on sector tariffs and finances, which are being undertaken as part of the
agreements related to Loan 1300-BR are expected to lead to recommendations
on these issues (see para. 42).
54.       Within the limitations described above, COPEL's financial and
operating performance is expected to continue to be satisfactory during the
project's execution. Its financial rate of return on revalued average net
fixed assets 1/ will not fall below 13% and its debt/equity ratio will improve
from 44/56 in 1978 to 35/65 in 1983. Because the maturity of COPEL's existing
debt is relatively short, compared to the useful life of the related assets,
GOPEL's annual debt service coverage ratio is expected to be low in the initial
years of project execution, averaging 1.2 between 1978-80. By 1982 it would
improve to 1.4 times, remaining at satisfactory levels thereafter. To provide
the Bank the opportunity to review COPEL's finances, it would agree, until the
completion of the project, not to incur any long-term debt without the Bank's
concurrence if, on the basis of a reasonable forecast, its debt service cover-
age ratio falls below 1.5 (or, for COPEL's fiscal years 1979, 1980, 1982 and
1983, its debt service coverage ratio falls below 1.3, 1.2, 1.4 and 1.4,
respectively) (Section 5.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Additionally,
COPEL would continue to be bound by the existing provision of Loan No. 1257-BR,
under which COPEL would not incur any long term debt without the Bank's concur-
rence if its debt:equity ratio exceeds 2:1. To further ensure that COPEL's
1/   Brazilian power sector regulations define a utility's "remunerable
investment" for any year as the average value of its gross fixed assets
in operation during the year less accumulated depreciation at year-end
plus an allowance for working capital. Because of the inclusion of
reversion in its calculation (para. 38) and the use of year-end rather
than average values for accumulated depreciation, the statutory return
on "remunerable investments" is not comparable to the financial rate of
return on revalued average net fixed assets in operation commonly used
in appraisal of public utilities. Normally, the financial rate of return
would exceed the statutory return by about the provision for reversion,
net of transfers from the GGF.



financial soundness is maintained, COPEL would agree: (a) not to incur debt
with an original term of less than 8 years without the Bank's consent if by so
doing the total outstanding principal of such debt would exceed 5% of its
total fixed assets (Section 5.07(a) of the draft Loan Agreement) and (b) not
to carry out any major expansion other than the agreed program without giving
the Bank evidence that such expansion is economically justified, that adequate
financial resources are available and that it conforms to the power expansion
program for the South/Southeast endorsed by ELETROBRAS (Section 5.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement). These provisions were also included in the agreements
for Loan No. 1257-BR. COPEL's performance under these provisions has been
satisfactory.
Sales Forecast
55.       From 1973 to 1978 COPEL's sales grew at an average annual rate of
22% and from 1978 to 1983 a growth rate of 15.9% is forecast. The main factor
contributing to the relatively high growth rates has been the substantial
development of the industrial sector, which in 1978 accounted for 41% of total
sales, while residential sales amounted to 20% and the commercial share was
15%; the remainder went to rural, government, and public service customers.
The relative market share of the industrial sector (75% agro-based) is ex-
pected to continue to grow during the project period. During the same period
the total number of consumers is expected to increase by about 415,000 (335,000
residential, 50,000 rural, and 30,000 in other categories).
56.       Except for large industrial consumers, the above forecasts were
prepared essentially on the basis of population trends in the state and well
recorded consumption indices. With respect to large industrial consumers
COPEL received service requests from 60 concerns, totalling 320 MW for the
period 1979-83. Of these requests, 50% of the firms have signed supply
contracts with COPEL and the remainder, letters of intent. The probability
that these loads will materialize during the period is estimated at 85%. The
analysis to define the sales forecast was comprehensive and thorough and
reflects well-substantiated trends, and the results have been reviewed by
ELETROBRAS and approved by DNAEE for COPEL's system expansion planning.
COPEL's 1979-83 Investment Program
57.       COPEL's 1979-83 expansion program comprises completion of the
Foz do Areia hydroelectric project (1,674 MW first stage expected to be in
operation in 1981); subtransmission (about 2,300 MVA of new transformer
capacity and 900 circuit kms of lines); distribution system improvements and
new extensions to serve about 365,000 new urban customers, including about
45,000 for low-income households; expansion of communications and control
facilities for system operation; enlargement of support facilities and
equipment; and a rural electrification program to provide connections for
about 50,000 new rural customers.
The Project
58.       The project proposed for Bank financing includes priority facilities
that would permit COPEL to meet the rapidly growing demand with reliable



- 19 -
service. The project, consisting mainly of subtransmission and distribution
works to be initiated after January 1, 1980 and completed by June 30, 1983,
would represent about 50% of COPEL's 1979-83 investment program, and comprise
the following facilities:
(a) subtransmission (230 kV to 69 kV): construction of new
lines totalling about 810 circuit-kms and installation of
about 2,120 MVA of additional transformer capacity;
(b) distribution: construction of 34.5 kV and lower voltage
lines totalling about 2,250 circuit-kms, 590 circuit-kms of
feeders, about 410 MVA in new distribution transformers,
and auxiliary facilities and equipment for system operation
and maintenance; and
(c) about 245 man-months of consulting services for preparation
of bidding documents and fabrication inspections.
Project Cost Estimate
59.       The project's estimated cost is US$361.7 million; the foreign cost
amounts to US$161.8 million (44.7%), part of which would be financed with the
proposed loan. The project cost estimate was prepared by COPEL's engineering
staff using as a basis equipment and material prices, as well as installation
and construction costs, obtained from contracts recently made under COPEL's
current project (Loan 1257-BR) and adjusted to prices prevailing in June 1978.
Goods to be financed by the Bank loan would be exempt from import duties and
other taxes; taxes on items procured locally and not financed by the Bank
amount to about US$16 million, or about 4.5% of project cost. The consulting
services required for equipment fabrication inspections outside Brazil were
calculated on the basis of the experience under the current project, estimated
at US$5,000/man-month, excluding subsistence and travel expenses. Physical
contingency allowances of 5% for equipment and materials and 10% for equipment
installation and civil works have also been used. These values are considered
appropriate in relation to the type of project involved and degree of accuracy
of the base cost estimate. Allowances for price increases have been incorporated
in the cost estimate using the following annual percentages and at a constant
(Cr$18.0/US$) exchange rate: for foreign costs 14% for 1978, and 6% thereafter;
for local cost, 15% for 1978 and 7% thereafter. A summary of project costs
appears in the loan and project summary at p. (ii) above.
Financing Plan
60.       During the project's construction period (1980-83), COPEL's require-
ments for funds would amount to about US$674 million (including working
capital and interest during construction). COPEL's financing plan during
this period appears sound. Consumer-based resources, consisting of COPEL's
internal cash generation, customer contributions in aid of construction and
reinvestment by the state and municipal governments of their proceeds of the
sole tax, will cover about 53% of COPEL's financial needs. Borrowings (for
the on-going Foz do Areia hydro project, the existing and proposed Bank loans,
ELETROBRAS loans for rural electrification and commercial bank co-financing)



- 20 -
are expected to cover 39% of requirements and the remaining 8% will be covered
principally by equity investments consisting of capital subscriptions by
ELETROBRAS and the state of Parana in connection with the Foz do Areia project.
61.       The proposed Bank loan of US$109 million would cover about 30% of
the total project cost (US$361 million) and 67% of the direct and indirect
foreign exchange cost (US$161.8 million). The remainder of foreign costs and
all local costs would be covered by COPEL's cash generation, equity contri-
butions and borrowings as described in the preceding paragraph. COPEL is
presently in the process of securing a commitment for US$60 million from one
or more private banks. We propose to provide the usual co-financing links
for the commercial bank financing with the proposed Bank loan. The signing
of an agreement satisfactory to the Bank between COPEL and the private lender
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement). A summary of COPEL's financing plan for the
period 1980-83 appears in the project summary above at p. (ii). Financial
projections were prepared in constant June 1978 cruzeiros to maintain con-
sistency with projections made by sector authorities. Conversion of local
currency projections to US dollars has been made at the exchange rate on June
30, 1978 (US$1 = Cr$18.0).
62.       The financial forecasts assume the reinvestment of dividends earned
by ELETROBRAS and the state of Parana and municipal governments during the
construction of the project. The reinvestment of state government dividends
and other projected equity investments are necessary to enable COPEL to
maintain a satisfactory ratio between debt and equity financing. The state
government, therefore, would reinvest in COPEL's capital stock all dividends
received through the completion of the project, or December 31, 1983, whichever
date is later (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement). As was the case
with the first power project, the state government would also provide all
funds necessary to complete the project should COPEL's financial resources be
inadequate (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). Should funds provided
by the state of Parana be inadequate for carrying out the project, the federal
Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the provision
of these funds (Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Execution
63.       As in the ongoing project (Loan 1257-BR), COPEL's own staff will
carry out engineering designs, specifications for equipment, materials and
works, as well as construction supervision for the project. COPEL will
continue to use the services of its consultant, Companhia Auxiliar de
Empresas Eletricas Brasileiras (CAEEB) for complementary services in the
preparation of bidding documents for ICB procurement of project items and
in related fabrication inspections. COPEL's technical staff has demonstrated
its high professional performance in the well-managed execution of the ongoing
project, which is expected to be completed, with minor delays, by mid-1979.
Project subtransmission and distribution works will be spread throughout the
state of Parana and most of them will be executed concurrently. Consequently,
they are not suitable for effective and economical handling by a single con-
tractor. COPEL expects that state-based contractors (of which there are many
qualified to perform the work) will submit the winning bids for these works.



- 21 -
Installation of major equipment will be done in most instances by the suppliers,
under COPEL staff supervision. Some construction and equipment installation
will also be performed by COPEL's own forces. These arrangements have worked
effectively and economically in the implementation of the first project.
Procurement
64.       Except for the direct purchases referred to below, procurement of
equipment, materials and instruments to be financed by the Bank will be
through international competitive bidding (ICB) and in accordance with the
guidelines for procurement under Bank loans. Special imported metering and
system protection and operation equipment that is not appropriate for ICB
because of the advisability of maintaining standardization would be acquired
through direct purchases at an estimated cost of about US$3 million. Miscella-
neous imported items required in small quantities, and therefore not suitable
for ICB, would also be purchased directly. The aggregate cost of direct
purchases would not exceed US$5 million. Based on the outcome of ICB recently
completed for COPEL's first distribution project (Loan 1257-BR), about half of
the value in contracts is expected to be won by Brazilian suppliers. Bids for
equipment and materials to be financed with the proposed loan that contain
elements of Brazilian manufacture, equal to at least 50% of the bid price,
would be given a margin of preference of 15%, or the applicable import duties,
whichever is lower.
65.       Equipment and materials which are unlikely to attract foreign bids
under ICB would be procured locally in accordance with COPEL's normal competi-
tive bidding procedures which are satisfactory. Bulky items such as concrete
poles and cross arms, construction materials, as well as miscellaneous low
voltage switches, connectors, and lighting fixtures are examples of this
category of goods. A sufficient number of local suppliers and contractors of
these items are available to expect a satisfactory degree of competition.
Disbursement
66.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed as follows (disbursements
will be fully documented):
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment and
materials and the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment and materials; and
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment fabrication
inspections outside of Brazil.
Return on Investment
67.       The return on investment was estimated as the discount rate that
equates the present values of the benefits and costs associated with the
1980-83 investment program. Benefits were measured by the forecast revenues
from the sales of electricity at the average retail tariff level in effect in
June 1978, plus the sole tax. The equalizing discount rate for the program is
about 14% which is somewhat higher than the opportunity cost of capital for



- 2 ' -
Bra-il, estimated .o be -.% (the return figure would be 12% if program costs
increase by 15%). If program costs do not increase but benefits decrease
instead by 10%, the return on investment would be 12%. These ranges of
variation represent the probable limits affecting the estimated return on
investment. While the return is therefore adequate, estimated figures for
recent similar projects in Brazil were significantly higher, thus suggesting
that present tariff levels may need to be raised. The tariff study currently
being carried out DNAEE and expected to be completed by mid-1979 should
provide a more definitive basis to determine the appropriate actions that
would need to be taken by sector authorities on this important matter.
Risks
68.       The project does not face any special risks.  Construction schedules
have been defined on the basis of normal and well-recorded progress attained
by COPEL on similar projects; consequently, major delays in project execution
are unlikely.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and COPEL, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the State of Parana and the Bank, and
the draft Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
70.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special effectiveness condition is described in para. 61.
71.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 22, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                                        ANNEX T
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHt:ET
BRAZIL                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
LAND AReA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTOLATE)
TOTAL           8512.0                                                   SAMlE       SAME i   NOT HiGHER
AGRICULTURAL    2066.0                                HDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    197o  b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION  c   GROUP Id   GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 320.0        580.0    1390.0          1066.7     1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSU4PTION PtR CAPITA
(EILOGRAMS OF COAL IQUIVALENt)     332.0       474.0   6h0.0              911.1     1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTlCS
TOTAL POPULATION. MID-YZA
(MILLIONS)                        69.8        92.8      113.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 44.5        55.7       61.4            57.9       52.2
POPULATION DtNSITY
PER SQ. Km.                        8.0        11.0       13.3            25.6       27.6        55.8
ER  SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     44.0        49.0       55.0            77.6      116.4        83.6
POPULATION ACE SrRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 nS.                          43.0        42.0       41.7            42.0       34.8         40.0
15-64 nS.                          54.0        55.0       55.L            52.2       56.0        55.3
65 nS. MMD ABOVE                    3.0          1.0       3.2             3.7        5.7          3.8
POPULATION CROWrH RATE (PERCENS)
TOTAL                              3.0          3.0       2.8             2.7         I .         2.9
URBAN                              5.5          5.0       4.4             4.1        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PZR THOUSAND)     40.8         38.4      37.1            35.8       27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      11.7         9.9       8.8             9.i        9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.6         2.6       2.5             2.6         1.9         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       113.0     203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WMEN)    ..           1.6        ..            15.1       19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
.YDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-10)              8B7.        100.0     L12.3           102.1      103.8       114.7
PU CAPITA SUPPLY Of
CALORIES (PERCEIT OF
REQUIRUEMENTS)                 102.0        104.0    105.0            103.9      110.4       113.4
PROTZEIS (GRAMS PZR DAY)          6L.0        64.0       62.1            60.3       77.7        89.9
Or WUICU ANr24AL AND PULSE      38.0         39.0      33.6            26.7       22.2        48.0
CHILD (ACES L-4)  DRTALl! RATE         ..          ..        ..             8.7         1.9
.EALTH
LIFE eXPECTANY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0          59.4      61.4            62.6       63.0        60.2
INFANT MtORTALITY RATE (PER
HOUSAND)                            180.0       110.0        ..            56.9       38.2         22.1
ACCESS TO SANE WATtR (PERCENT OF
.OPULATION)
TDTAL                               ..         56.3      71.7            60.J       67.7         83.0
13SAN                               ..         77.1      83.2            78.0       83.5        300.0
RURAL                               ..         29.0      52.9            14.9       41.5
ACCESS TO ERCQTA DISPOSAL (PtRCENT
Of POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         59.9      65.5            bl.l       70.3         57.8
URA                                  .         86.1      86.3            80.3       90.7         99.3
RURAL                               ..         26.5      39.0            25.4        35.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2170.0       1910.0    1650.0 /f       1899.3     1330.8       976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       3220.0    2920.0          1 1220.1    869.2       66. 1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            273.0        260.0     260.0           422.1      275.4        325.8
URBAN                                .           .                      25s.2       129.9       250.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..          2281.6      965.9        770.0
ADMSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        18.0        ..            25.6        18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF hOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.1          4.8        ..             5.2        3.9
UAN                                 ..          4.6        ..
RURAL                                .          5.2        ..
AVERArE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER WOOM
TOTAL                               ..          1.3       1.1 if          2.0        0.9
URBAN                               ..          3.0       1.2 7T          2.1        0.8
RURAL                               ..          1.2       1.2             2. 7        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
Of DWeLLINGS)
TOTAL                             38.7         47.b      55.1            51.2        59.2
URBAN                               --         75.6      77.9            77.3        78.0
RURAL                               ..          8.4      3.2.5           12.8        12.5



,ANNEX I
A>  Z I L - c -    INDICATORS SA rA .liFIK1
S.ZI1t                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HICHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP Ld   CROUP La
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLKENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        83.0       90.0           103.5       97.6        104.1
FEMALE               93.0         83.0      90.0            102.9       87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  1L.0        27.0       26.0            37.2       47.8         44.7
FEXALE               10.0         27.0      20.0             37.9       42.6        46.0
VUCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SE'ONDARY) 19.0         17.0       47.0 La         14.7        22.7        18.7
PUPtIL-TEACHR ItATIO
PRIMAItY                           31.O        28.0       22.0            322.        21.4        30.b
SED0NDARY                          1J.0        13.0       11.0            11.8        24.9        16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE tPERCtET)        61.0        66.0         ..            74.9        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIN                          7.0        25.0       35.0            26.9        32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.0        60.0       60.0           173.5       201.9       195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         18.0        66.0       83.0            69.4        97.7       108.4
NEIWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
IINTEREST") CIRCULATlIOI PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  54.0        37.0       39.0            72.8        70.9       108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0           1.9        ..             4.3         4.4
IEPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR PFRCE (THOUSANDS)    22700.0      29400.0   34100.0
FEALE (PERCENT)                    17.5        20.4       21.6            21.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTUIE (PERCENT)              52.0        40.4       31.8            37.8        38.4        25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.8        18.3         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENTr)
TOTAL                                32.0         31.6      31.5             30.8       33.7        40.1
KALE                                 52.7         50.3      49.5            47.2        50.8        55.8
FIDALE                               11.2         12.8      13.6             13.2       12.6        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6          1.5       1.4             1I7         1.4         1.6
INCOME 01STRISUTION
P1RCGUT OF PRIVATy INCOMEl
UCEIVED BY
HIGHEST S PERCPrJ T      IOusCHuLDi   2/ 1 /     .9 /       .. H8O                    Iu20.: 
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  54.4 ]7b    62.2 71j    ..              57          47.9
IOWEST 20 PERCEIT OF HOUSEHOLDS    1.5 3h.2 A               .3..*                      3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.6 /h      10.0  h      ..            10.1        13.7
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ASOLLTTE POVRTY lNC011E
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URIWI                                ..           ..        ..           251.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     150.0           200.6       157.9
ESTIMTED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     465.0           403.i       448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     332.0           258.0       313.1
ESTlIATED POPULATILO BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      34.0             24.8       23.2
RURAL                                 .           ..      55.0            65.2        54.5
Not available
NHu epplilcabl..
NOTES
k    The adjusted group  uesrage for each Indicator are populatlon-weighted geomtric means. excluding the extram
valu.. of the LndIc-tor and tCh  -ot populated country In each group. Cov*reag of coustries amon  the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise  oted. data for 1960 rotfr to sny year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. bet.een 1969
and 1971: and for Most Recent Estmaste. between 1973 and 1977:
Li.   LatIn Amrica 4 Caribbean; /d  Upper Middle lncom  ($1136-2100 per captt. 1976);  /s Htgh Income
-ov-r $2500 per -&pLt.. 19/6);  /t  1972; La  BRato-ing 1973. durectln of Sonari - docation reduced
from 1 to 4 y.sars  therefore date way not be comparable to those of estrier years;  Lb  Data reter
to economically activ.e populatimn.
September. 1978



- 25 -                                                                 ANNEX I
DEFINI[IONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                   rage
R=1:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme vslues of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries ang the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data.
group averages for Capital Surplus O01 Exporters and indicators of access to eater and excreta disposal, housing, income distributlon and poverty ace
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface ares comprising land area and inland waters,                      urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural at-  used temporarily               available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                 habilitation centers.  Hospitals are astablishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                           at least one physicin.  Establiabhmnts providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hoepitala, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP pea  capita estimates at current market prices,               cal centers not permanently ataffed by a physician (but by a medic-I as-
calcuiated by sam-  co-vern' ,o method as World Bank Atlas  (1975-77 basis);          sitant, nurse, midwife, etac) which offer in-patient accommodtion end
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                           provide a limited r-nge of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual co.suamption of coamercial energy                 from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thormal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                 HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                 and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included io
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                        the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban nopulatio- (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total populn-                   hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                Average number of persona per roosi - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data u gong countries,                                                            ber of persona per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structuras and
Per   q. kh. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                 unoccupied parts.
of total  rea.                                                                     Arress to elrctricitv (peretet of dwellins.) - total, urban., nd rural -
Per sq. kn. airiculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                 Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age atructure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 yearn and over) as percentages of mid-            EDUCATION
year population.                                                                  Adjusted anrolloect ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                 Primary schol - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all rfe
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                    at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                populationa; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Arnual live births per thousand of                    different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 sad                  cation enrollment nay exceed 100 percent aince sans pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                  above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - danual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total. and female - Computed as above; oserodary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tin requires at least four years of approved primary irttruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                       video general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                 usually of 12 to 17 years of agpe  correapondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                    excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institution.  in-
1970, mod 1975.                                                                      clude technical, industrial, or other prsgrams which operate independ-ntly
Family planning - acceptora, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                      or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family              Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning prograt,                                                                    primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                      aponding levels.
lcnted womes of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who ose birth-control             Adult literacy rate (porcent) - Literate adults (able to road .cd write) as
devices to all married wrsen in same age group.                                       a percentage of tota1 adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                  CONSUMPTION
Index of food production Per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                Passenger cars (per thcusand population) - Passenger camr  comprise motor cars
capitrn annul production of all food camnoditiam.                                  .sating ls.. than eight persons; amcludes ambulanoes, hoarasm and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirearants) - Computed from              vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita            Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production. imports lean            broadc-ats to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,           receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantitite  used in food processing, and lones in distribution.  Re-              effect; data for recast yearn nay not be eomp-rable sin- mast co-ntries
quiremanta were estimated by FAO bssed on physiological needs for nor-             abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering environmental temperature, body               TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV resivero for broadcast to gener..
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                public per thoasand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers Sn coma-
cent for waste at household level,                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (irama per day) - Protein content of per               Neaspaper circulation leer thousand peoulatien) - Shows tha average circuln-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined so                  tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a miui- 11 allowance of 60 gra-s of tot-1 protein per day mnd 20 gras                 be "daily" if it appars at least four tim.es a reek.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.          Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standads are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                  sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                   units.
FAO in the Third world Food Survey.
Per ..Pit. protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food           EMPLOYfENT
derived from animals and pulses in gras per day.                                  Total labor force (thosasnds) - Iconomically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-               forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, otudenta, etc.  Defini-
end in  ge group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tiona in vei.ou  countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
RRALTH                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor fores in farmIng, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (vears) - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,              Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construetion, manufacturing and
sod 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of agm per thousand live birhts.                                             female labr force us par-enteses of their respective populations
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                These are ILO's adjusted partleipation rates reflecting Age-sen
Number of people (total, urban, aad rural) with reasonable access to                  structure of the population, and long tiar  trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boraholee, springs,                  the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an unrban area a public fountami  or standpost located not aore                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest S
sonable assess of that house.  Is rural areas resamable access -p.ld                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the hsouewife or members of the household do not have to                   of households.
spend a disproportiomate part of th. day in fetching the f-aily's
water  eeds.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrets disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and               Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per caPita) - urban and rural -
rural - Numbar of people (total, urban, and rural) served by e.orata                    Absolute poverty inosme level is that iacome level below ohich a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may inclode the collection and disposal, with or without                     affordable.
treatment, of human excrete and waste-water by water-born  systems                Ettimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                  Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Populatiom Per physician - Populatisn diwided by numb-r of pr-cticing                   per capita personel income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                    Estio ted population below Poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                         Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "abeclute poore or
practicing male and female gradmate nurses, practical nurses, and                     "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Ecoonic and Social Data Division
Economic Anulysia and Projections Department



_    ls_9 oi                        'N             >           N                    0                                                                  N  _ nC  _  _ __oo so A    
0.NNesNHN   j>                    NO        0.      0N      NH       INrt  WW >3x p cNOO>wN                        w NX a    h                                  N s         o 
o                               ON         <O        N 3N O                                                          N w 3  lt e=Cw5                   nO,nOnOi               IgrFi n<N ONNNNOZ-    ^ 
INNx              * NX   N  N       0  0Z    O    gz2>H                                                                                  X   o   1   _   *   _   e   wdDgNN>O  >    * e = w w   DOt3NN N   >
b          .o:5n=e>eE-9*ON~I 0   Nj NX             3      e eO N*0        N
x ,ffia wN NDeN2               O N~.  N N                                  L                                               N     NO           ON     OD       NO     D          NO  Naaa>D  
~~~~~- r.                                                                             -                                  r.                                  3   - 
0~~~~ oN                         o         o       ow l.    mO                        N               o.o    0                             N     ~              N             NO
oj                D|           O NP_5           asW       ,        
00 4           00m1                       4       0      0w _O P                                       N4 _            NON _O NN wN O                                                    0   O 88888 _>@ o w@@s_                                          
IN  N      400            -       -    - -            ONNOO                     O0.-0N4.0NN    N~~~~~~~~
_        _  N ON            N    00 0 -o                              0 oN 44 0                 - tNN _00_0.00ww0000   F                    C r_ 
NO    00              0 .     N ON              0 rNN                      NNN          000          0              
< n . . ~~~~~~~~O                                                                      000W             . ,         0          .        0a-0         04     0                     N    Fm>or         
r.~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                    ~      ~~~~~ 0_- 0a0   W0 WNo N O  
0 _                                                                                                                                                0                                     
_~~~~~~~~                                                                                          ~ ~                  ~           ~ 000 _  0 _OO _00N000 4kwWw__       
O~~~~~~~~~~~~ _.400                                                                                      ON N oNON wOO                                                         4             o _oMo__wmoo 
0-00.0000 ~           ~             ~ 0wO -   00 0 0 0 0
. ~ ~ ~    ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~      ~        0    4 . 0 w  _.00                                40000000000s                                   o
1.~~~~~~~~                                                                     0          0         0         0                     0 0               0    .      Aw         0 -    



ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Million US$)
A C T U A L                           PRELIMINARY               P R o J E C T E D
1974          1975           1976           1977            1978           1979           1980           1985           1990
A.  Sumsary of Balance of Payments
1.     Exports (incl. NFS)                         8,471          9,376         10,797        12,808           13,376         15,704         18,124        38,648         76,818
2.     Imports (incl. NFS)                        14,678         14.308         14,475        14,020           15,767         16,730         18,064        36,635         75,958
3.     Resource Balance                           -6,207         -4,932         -3,678        -1,212           -2,391        -L,026              60          2,013            860
4.     Net Factor Service Income                   - 916         -1,770         -2,339        -2,825           -3,420         -3,838         -4,297         -7,454       -11,589
A. Net Interest Payments                       - 652        -1,498         -1,809         -2,104           -2,500        -2,880         -3,234         -5,288         -8,145
h. Direct Investment Income                    - 248          - 235         - 380          - 455            - 575          - 542          - 590        -1,030         -1,775
c. Other Factor Service Income                 -  16          -  37         - 150          - 266            - 345         - 416          - 473         -1,136         -1,669
5.     Current Transfers (Net)                          1              2             4             -                76              7             7              7              7
6.     Balance on Current Account                 -7,122         -6,700         -6,013        -4,037           - 5, 735       -4,857          -4,230        -5,434       -10,723
7.     Net Private Direct Investment                  887           892            962            810             800             770           760            750            750
8.     Medium- and Long-Term Loans
a. Traditional Sourcesa_
(i) Disbursements                        1,956          1,612         2,054          2,553            2,888          3,722         4,204          7,035         11,230
(ii) Amortization                         - 739          - 992        -1,350         -1,701           -1,842         -1,652         -1,960        -4,421         -7,048
(iii) Net Disbursements                    1,217            620            703           852            1,046          2,070          2,244          2,614         4,182
b. Financial Credits
(i) Disbursements                        5,103          4,524         5,978          5,940           11,364          3,168          7,247          9,088        17,765
(ii) Amortization                        -1,181         -1,194        -1,669         -2,426           -3,526         -4,150         -5,734        -5,920         -9,719
(iii) Net Disbursements                    3,922          3,330          4,309         3,514            7,838          - 982          1,513          3,168         8,046
9.     Use of IMF Resources                           -                7           -              -                -              -             -              -
10.      Short-term Capital and Capital n.e.i.    138                789          2,294          - 440            - 122            -              -             -              -
11.      Reserves (-= increasg)
a. Reserve Accumulation-                         958          1,062        -2,255          - 699           -3,825          2,999          - 287        -1,098         -2,255
. b  Dollar Valuation Adjustment                 185            176          - 252         -  16            - 660            -              -              -              -
c. Changes in Reserve Level_/                  1,143          1,238        -2,507          - 715           -4,485          2,999          - 287        -1.098         -2,255
12.      Foreign Exchange Reserves                   5,272         4,034          6,541          7,256          11,741          8,742           9,029        10,127         12,382
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
1.     Total M&LT Loans                             7,179          7,005         9,482          9,738           15,349
1.1    IBRD                                           242            426           498            425              705
1.2    IDB                                            203            167           186            270              300
1.3    Governments                                    518            512         1,251          1,184            1,311
1.4    Suppliers                                    1,088          1,376         1,300          1,100            1,186
1.5    Bonds                                           25            -             269            819            1,000
1.6    Financial Credits                            5,103          4,524         5,978          5,940           10,847
C.  Memorandum Items
1.     Grant Element of Total Commitments               2.5            2.5            2.5           2.8
2.     Average Interest (Percent)                       9.5            9,5            9.4            9.3              8.2
3.     Average Maturity (Years)                         9.0            9.9            8.3           8.9             10.6
a/ Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits and bond issues.
b/ IFS Line 79d.
c/  IFS Line Id.                                                                                                                                                                     April 5. 1979
... not available



ANNEX 1
Page 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                      Preliminary
1974        1975         1976        1977         1978
A. Medium- and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1. Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                       17,166       21,171      25,985       32,037      40,968
a. By type of Debt
(1) Financial Credits                                   11,211      14,561       18.194      21,528       28,849
(2) Traditional Lendersa/                                5,955       6,610        7,791       10,509      12,119
b. By type of Borrower
(1) Public and Publicly Guaranteed                       8,533      11,461       14,852       19,309      24,704
(2) Private                                              8,633       9,710       11,133      12,729       16,264
2, Net Debt Service                                              2,572        3,683       4,825        6,231        7,851
a.  Total Interest                                           1,370        1,863       2,091        2,462        3,200
b. Net Interest                                                652        1,498       1,810        2,103        2,500
3. Public Debt Service                                           1,287        1,550       1,982        2,505        3,923
B. Debt Burden
1. Net Debt Service Ratio!b/                                      30.4         39.3        44.7         48.6         58.7
2.  Total Net Debt Service RatioCI                                33.3         41.8        48.2         52.2         63.0
3. Public Debt Service Ratio                                      15.2         16.5        18.4         19.6         29.3
4. Liquidity Ratiod/                                              23.0         33.3        43.0         39.2
5. Net Debt Service/GDP                                            2.3          3.0          3.3         3.8          4.1
6. Public Debt Service/GDP                                         1.2          1.3         1.4          1.5          2.0
7. Total DOD/GDP                                                  15.6         17.1        17.8         19.3         21.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD!/                             10.9         10.9         9.9          9.5         10.0
2. Net Debt Service/Total DODe/                                   20.5         21.5        22.8         24.0         24.5
D. Dependency Ratios for N&LT Debt
1. Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                        48.1         42.9        55.5         60.6         90.4
2. Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)!/                             25.7         14.6        20.2         13.6         36.1
3. Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                               53.4         34.0        36.4         22.4         39.9
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                    3.5         4.1          2.2         3.5          2.6
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                             4.9          5.2          5.0         4.8          4.6
3. IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                              3.0          2.5         2.4          2.9          2.6
F. External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                            Outstanding December 31, 1978 (Prel.)
Aount                                Percent
1. IBRD                                                              1,812                                  4.4
2. Other Multilateral                                                   995                                 2.5
3. Governments                                                       3,328                                  8.1
4.  Suppliers                                                         3,570                                 8.7
5. Bonds                                                             2,208                                  5.4
6. Financial Credits                                                28,849                                 70.4
7. Other                                                                206                                 0.5
S. Total M&LT Debt                                                  40,968                                100.0
9. Total Public M&LT Debt                                           24,704 (est.)                          60.3
G. Debt Profile
1. Net Debt Service 1979-85/Total DOD end of 1978                                         209.6
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT Loans n.e.i.
b/ Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and NFS.
c/  Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
dI  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NPS plus exchange (at beginning of year) in excess
of 3 months imports.
e/ As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
f/  Net transfer is equal to total net disbursements minus gross interest.
...  not available
Note: Debt service ratios have been calculated on the basis of net rather than gross interest payments in
order to take into account interest earned upon Brazil's international reserves.
April 5, 1979



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
TTHE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                 1,360.5
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports                45.0          11.4
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica              Industry             64.5             .1
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas        Power                60.0             .1
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                             Land Settlement       6.7            1.5
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0          35.4
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry        54.0          31.2
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0           32.4
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply         36.0            3.2
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education            23.5           17.8
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0          28.5
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0           35.8
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0           76.8
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          54.8
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0           16.6
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways             75.0           37.2
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0             11.0
1206   1976  Brazil                             Development Bank   85.0            68.7
1207   1976  Brazil                              Feeder Roads        55.0          53.0
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture          40.0           36.5
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer           50.0           15.2
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de            Power                52.0           34.1
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower               Purpose     Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                      Power                 50.0          40.2
1302    1976  Brazil                          Nutrition             19.0          18.2
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0          29.2
1317    1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry         83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                       Power                 82.0          48.8
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   42.0            28.3
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer            64.0          60.2
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do           Fertilizer            82.0          51.6
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                          Education             32.0          31.0
1488    1977  Brazil                          Rural Development   17.0            16.4
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage               110.0         110.0
1537    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   24.0            23.8
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                      Power                130.0         130.0
1557    1978  Brazil                          Roads                114.0         114.0
1562    1978  COPESUL                         Petrochemicals        85.0          82.5
1563    1978 Brazil                           Urban Transport       88.0          84.5
1568    1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension   100.0           100.0
1589    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   37.0            37.0
1654 /L  1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0             93.0
1656 /1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0             100.0
1660 /1 1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.           Aluminum              98.0          98.0
Total                                             4,178.2 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                541.0
Total now outstanding                             3,637.2
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            37.7            8.1
Total now held by Bank                            3.629.1
Total undisbursed                                                1,981.0
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



ANNEX I_
- 31 -                                    Page 3,
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS  (as of March 3 19279)_
Fiscal Year                           Obligor                                     Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                     Electrical Equipment        2.00      -        2.00
1958              Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                            Pulp and Paper              1.20      -        1.20
1958              D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                            Automotive Parts            0.45      -        0.45
1958              Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                     Motor Vehicles              2.45      -        2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                Cement                      1.20      -        1.20
1959              Champion Celulose, S.A.                                     Pulp                        4.00      -        4.00
1966/1968/
1972              Acos Villares, S.A.                                         Steel                       8.00     1.93      9.93
1966/1969         Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                          Pulp and Paper              3.78     3.41      7.19
1967/1972         Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                         Fertilizers                 8.22     3.03    11.25
1969              Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                    Petrochemicals              5.50     2.88      8.38
1970              Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercic                     Petrochemicals              5.50     2.88      8.38
1971              Oxitepo, S.A. Industria e Comercio                          Petrochemicals              4.60     1.44      6.04
1971              Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                   Pulp                        4.90      -        4.90
1972/1975         Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                      Cement                     29.14     3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                Steel                      76.96     7.50    84.46
1973              Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                    Capital Market
Development               5.00       -       5.80
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                     Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                  Refining                  85.00     8.34    93.34
1974              Industrias Villares, S.A.                                   Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment           6.00        -      6.00
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                           Textiles                   31.00      -       31.00
1975              Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                            Carbon Black                6.18     1.08      7.26
1975              Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                      Petrochemicals             10.00      -       10.00
1976              Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.               Textiles                    6.45     1.00      7.45
1976              Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste               Textiles                    6.00      -        6.00
1977               FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                            Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00       -      20.00
1977              Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                 Mining                     15.00      -       15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                    Iron and Steel              7.0      3.0      10.0
Total Gross Commitments                                                              355.53    35.69   395.22
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                               261.74     8.51   270.25
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                    93.79    31.18   124.97
Total tUndisbursed                                                                   64.38      6.94    71.32



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 39 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily although it
appears now that project completion will not be realized until early
1980. Accordingly, a postponement of the closing date will be
required. In spite of tariff increases, the financial condition of
the Port of Santos continues to be unsatisfactory. Price escalation
for civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by
additional allocations from Brazil's federal Port Authority,
PORTOBRAS.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1979. The Stage II project was substantially
completed in September 1978 at a total project cost of US$970.4
million. This is twenty-six months behind the appraisal schedule
and at a cost of US$593.6 million (157%) higher than anticipated
at the time of appraisal. Production reached 2.05 million tons
of raw steel equivalent in 1978 compared with 1.54 million tons
in 1977 and 2.34 million tons forecast for 1979 when the plant
is operating at full capacity. In spite of the capital cost
increase the project remains competitive because of the corre-
sponding increase in international prices in steel. Emphasis
will now be placed by management on reducing production costs
and financial and administrative expenses to improve internal
cash generation.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which does
not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing. The first four units of the
power plant were commissioned in June of 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Proiect:  US$6,.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The road component of the project now completed was reduced from the
original 306 km to 238 km. The settlement agency, COLONE, has pre-
pared revised farm development plans whose credit component, to be
financed by public financial institutions, will be significantly
higher than originally estimated, although still low in comparison
to other settlement projects. Administrative delays in the release
of public funds for farm credit, road construction and COLONE working
capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting project staff de-
layed the start of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered
by the lack of assured financing, and this problem is compounded by
cost overruns presently amounting to about 240%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 65% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems encountered and very heavy rains which delayed
construction of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is
about 54% over the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to
the need for increased physical quantities due to geological problems.
The rest of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works. However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by the Govern-
ment, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commit-
ments under this loan are almost at a standstill as a result of
competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down
in industrial investments. Sub-loan commitments and disbursements
are more than 2 years behind schedule. The Bank has agreed to an
interim postponement of the closing date to June 30, 1979, pending
a review with the new Government, which took office in March 1979,
on the prospects for future disbursements.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Thirty-one sub-
projects have been satisfactorily completed out of a total of 41.
The remaining 10 subprojects are under construction and progressing
well. As of March 31, 1979, 91% of the loan proceeds had been
disbursed. It is envisaged that the loan will be fully disbursed
by June 1979. In early 1979, the Government increased COPASA's tariff
by 36% which should allow the company to operate on a sound financial
basis, at least during the first half of 1979.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because
of delays by the government in providing counterpart financing.
Project implementation units have been established in all eight
project states and these, together with the main project unit,
PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment studies in the
Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed and have
yielded useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government has decided to deregulate most freight
tariffs and has started to make payments to the railway to meet
deficits on uneconomic services. These actions should significantly
improve the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17. 1975;
Effective Date:  May 15, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.



ANNEX II
-35-                          Page 7
Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule, and remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project is being revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III is proceeding at a reduced pace in part because of un-
certainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds to fully
finance the project. COSIPA has released the preliminary report of
the project based on the revision mentioned above. The preliminary
estimate of the revised project cost is US$1.7 billion which is
44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project remains
economically justified.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 has further delayed project progress.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. The waters
from the recent floods have substantially receded, and construction
is expected to resume at a normal rate later in 1979.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The technical
assistance program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations,
marketing, and data processing systems is showing results. The
Government recently deregulated most freight tariffs and is starting
to make payments to the railways to meet deficits on uneconomic
services. These actions should assist in improving FEPASA's
financial position. Preliminary results of the Transport Master Plan
indicate that a major redimensioning of the railway will be required.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily in the
areas of extension, marketing, applied research, and health. Two
potential problems could affect Phase II implementation: (i) the
possibility of a severe drought, and (ii) the relocation of the
POLONORDESTE program between government agencies and between cities,
and the possibility of a reorganization. The recent change in
state administration is having a favorable impact on the project.
The new administration is already taking drought-relief measures,
and has indicated its strong support of the project, and particularly
of Phase II implementation.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) differences between the relending terms of the agencies concerned
and those required under the Loan Agreement; (ii) a leveling off of
the industry's demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource
constraints of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate
commitment of the loan, the Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
so as to finance the full foreign exchange cost of subprojects.
However, commitment of the loan is progressing slowly because of
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized interest rates
and a general slow-down in investments. The Closing Date for
this loan has been postponed to September 30, 1979 to allow dis-
bursements to continue while the Government and the Bank hold
discussions concerning the project.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Six sub-loans totalling US$106 million have
been committed with a total Bank contribution of US$25 million.
Prospects are good that the full amount of the loan will be
committed by September/October 1979.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA, which took place after federal and state
elections. Imposed hiring constraints significantly affected
the civil works, consultant services, and training components of
this project. The outlook for the remainder of 1979 should be more
favorable with a resumption of normal hiring procedures since the
new government has now taken office.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Proiect:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 80% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 40% behind appraisal forecast, but the loan is expected
to be fully utilized by the closing date.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily. After a slow start, the agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit is seriously
understaffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the
project. The nutrition delivery system's field tests are pro-
ceeding reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial
credit components are behind schedule because of competitive
programs at subsidized rates. Measures to deal with the staffing
problems are being studied by the new government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully com-
mitted for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan area of
Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in the
interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in rural
areas of the state. It is envisaged that the closing date will have
to be extended by one year to September 30, 1981, to allow for
completion of disbursements.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
have not started.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13. 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 30% complete and about 60% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded; the remainder are expected to
be awarded by mid-1979. With the exception of a relatively minor
component, project execution is on schedule. The shortfall (25%)
in loan disbursements, caused by delays in the procurement process,
is expected to be reduced to 10% by mid-1979 and eliminated by the
end of that year.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
satisfactorily after initial delays. The credit component is
gathering momentum. Mainly as a result of administrative difficul-
ties, participation in this project by landless producers is signif-
icantly lower than originally envisaged, but concerted efforts by
the state government and the participating banks have improved this
situation recently. The health component has advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29. 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
expected to affect project execution.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7.
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. With one exception (FUNDACENTRO),
the technical assistance program is underway at the training centers.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The implementation of the project has proceeded
satisfactorily after initial local funding delays. Agricultural
extension and experimentation services, agricultural credit, input
supply, marketing and storage services are making good progress,
while the parts of the project relating to land purchase credit,
agricultural mechanization and cooperative societies organization
are progressing at a slower than expected rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction of
three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is progressing
well. Equipment contracts have been signed for two of these plants,
committing approximately US$50 million of the loan. Bids are underway
for the third plant.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date; October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and generally on schedule.
Civil works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm
development component is showing encouraging initial results. How-
ever, administrative problems are causing difficulties in making
credit available to the smaller farmers and tenants.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
six months due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market; however, it is
not certain that project completion will also be delayed.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13. 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule. The training
component of the maintenance program for this project is now
underway.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6. 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing according to schedule. Contracts for
civil works in Curitiba, Recife, and Salvador have been signed. The
Bank has approved the subproject proposal for Porto Alegre and is
examining the proposal for Belo Horizonte.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency EMBRATER has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized and project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation of the project has advanced satisfactorily after
initial local funding delays, and substantial progress is being made
in the majority of the components. Discussions with the new government
concerning the difficulties encountered in implementing the land
purchase credit component of the project are now underway.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
COPEL SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   approximately 5 months
(from June 1978 to
October 1978)
(b)  Project prepared by:               COPEL
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  September 1978
(d) First Bank mission to consider
the project:                       September 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  November 1978
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:        April 1979
(g) Planned Deadline for
Effectiveness:                     September 30, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) COPEL to implement, during project execution, a program to provide
electricity services to at least 45,000 low income households
(para. 49);
(b) COPEL to prepare a program to provide electricity services to about
50,000 new rural consumers, said program to be presented to Bank for
review by November 30, 1979 and implementation to be completed by
June 30, 1983 (para. 45);
(c) COPEL to have a signed co-financing agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, for US$60 million, as a condition for effectiveness (para. 61);
(d) Until project completion, COPEL not to incur any long-term debt
without the Bank's concurrence if its debt service coverage ratio
falls below 1.5 (or, for its fiscal years 1979, 1980, 1982 and 1983,
below 1.3, 1.2, 1.4 and 1.4, respectively) (para. 54);



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) COPEL not to incur debt with an original term of less than eight
years if by so doing the total outstanding principal of such debt
would exceed 5% of its total fixed assets (para. 54);
(f) COPEL to maintain its earnings (including transfers from the Global
Guarantee Fund) at levels consistent with sound financial public
utility practices and in accordance with existing legislation; and
to maintain its eligibility under norms prescribed by DNAEE for
transfers from the GGF; federal Government to allow COPEL to obtain
a return from revenues (together with transfers from the GGF, if
required) of at least 10% on its remunerable investment (para. 40);
(g) COPEL not to carry out any major expansion without giving the Bank
evidence that such expansion is economically justified, that adequate
financial resources are available, and that it is in accordance with
plans for the southern and southeastern regions endorsed by ELETROBRAS
(para. 54);
(h) State of Parana to reinvest in the capital stock of COPEL all
the dividends received from the utility through the completion
of the project or up to December 31, 1983 whichever is later
(para. 62);
(i) State of Parana to provide, in the event funds available to
COPEL are insufficient, all funds which may be required to
carry out the project (para. 62); and
(j) Federal Government to make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank for the provision of funds to carry out the project,
in the event that the funds available to COPEL, including
those provided by the State of Parana, are insufficient
(para. 62).



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ T,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __do_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __/_ _ _ 52__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                 IB R D   14 18 5
MCTRGPOLIIAN.                                                ,sAO
STATE OF PARANA - POWER SYSTEM
Ir0>..o5>;<_j115 tUbrsb   o,_/S,,lL,,J,    ro.foic4                  qsoufcs    d<a='~ASERVICE   AREA   AND   MAIN   INSTALLATIONS
COMPANHIA  PARANAENSE DE ENERGIA ELETRICA-COPEL
_ __   (      MARINGA    BEG ON              [, b                   -   \EVJ,    IoEE    IE.Eo                                               /EXISTiNG
h,pt ,, 0.A,.t, ,,   O   (   \  /      /         X                 ,           , Mo94:                      <          ON          tnarnhnhne       /                    > y ro 6rev    =,=   er  EjAIE FE' F.. lAS'RE  I. FF00   ENDOEI
. 2  <   />   fi  \       ~    ~           G   f          For .9   do N    ,                                      r< Yb. I                         9 R                          b l.Dr.A.  N.F
SOEEF1                                  F~~~~~~.   F   TII    II 1
LON ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~'
4F                                                                                                                    S.-- A \ A t; F - b -   \   /  >  /   \\/'/  \   /             /
fSo>ro dxs o / > / \ ~~~~~~~~~~~PCMTA  GROSSA  REGION   l f\'  
O< t~                                                                                                                                                                                           12L,RITA "    / '  ~'   ' " 'RAREGION
012.,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I, ,
__F                                     __   _                                                   h*\ChuA b / )d s( S\llCi
9~~~i                                                   G<IE>F             F __P,,  d                                                                                                                                              d m\ __r TLr4 ,.,'  if  J2
BRAZIL  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
SF,Et~v         01                                                                     A  N  Td C                                T - R   N
GE O-                                                                                                                                                                                       ........JCATARIE  N  AFF  .   'D 4.D''E11' 



