Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
3785
Report No. ?785a-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Sixth Water Supply Project)
April 5, 1982
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 1981)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (D)   1,000 Millimes
D 1           =US$ 2.00
US$ 1         = D 0.500
ABBREVIATIONS
ft    =  foot                               m3/sec      cubic meters per second
lcpd  =  liters per capita per day          Mm3         million of cubic meters
m     =  meter                              mm          millimeter
sec   =  second                             gr/l    =  gram per liter
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                               US System
Kilometer (km)                          =  0.62 mile (mi)
Hectare (ha)                            =  2.47 acres (a)
Meter (m)                               =  39.37 inches (in)
Cubic meter (m3)                        =  264 US gallons (g)
Million cubic meters/year (Mm3/year)  =  0.72 million US gallons per day
(mgd)
Liter (1)                               =  0.264 US gallon (g)
Liters per second (I/sec)               =  22,800 US gallons per day (gd)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ADB                 =     African Development Bank
AFESD                     Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
DGR                 =     Direction du Génie Rural
IBRD                      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                       International Development Association
IDB                       Islamic Development Bank
KfW                 =     Kreditanstalt flUr Wiederaufbau
OED                       Operations Evaluation Department
ONAS                      Office National de l'Assainissement
PPAR                =     Project Performance Audit Report
RDE                 =     Régie de Distribution des Eaux
RDP                       Rural Development Program
SFD                       Saudi Fund for Development
SIDA                      Swedish International Development Authority
SMIG                =     Salaire Minimum Interprofessionnel Garanti
SONEDE                    Société Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution
f                           des Eaux
USAID                     United States Agency for International Development
SONEDE's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Nc.
I.  THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR ..................................                                1
General Features ..........................................i 
Water Resources .......................................... l
Population and Service Levels ................ ...........                              2
Constraints and Priorities in the Sector .................                              3
Previous Bank Loans and Credits in the Sector ............                              4
SONEDE's  Fifth Development Plan  (1977-81) ................                            5
SONEDE's  Sixth Development Plan  (1982-86) ................                            5
The Rural Water Supplies Sub-Sector ......................                              7
The Sewerage Sub-Sector ..................................                              7
II.   WATER DEMAND .............................................                               8
Water Consumption and Production .........................                              8
House Connections ...................-                                                  9
Composition of the Demand ................................                              9
Future Water Sales .......................................                              9
III. THE BORROWER                                   .... 
Background ...............................................Il
Past Performance .........................................
Organization and Management ..............................                             il
Staffing .................................................                             12
Current Practices and Procedures .........................                             12
Project Implementation Capacity ..........................                             13
IV.   THE PROJECT ..............................................                              14
Project Genesis ..........................................                             14
Project Objectives .......................................                             14
SONEDE's  Sixth Development Plan  (1982-86) ................                           15
Project Description ......................................                             15
Project Cost .............................................                             16
Rural Water Supplies Component ...........................                             16
Selection Criteria .................                                                   17
House Connections ........................................                             18
This report was prepared and written by Mr. Johan Van Beuzekom and Mr. Nabil
Shebadeh.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisx be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                    Page No.
Water Meters ............................................. . ....... 19
Procurement ..............                     .........                   19
Contract   Review   ..... .   . ................  ..... .......... . . . . s * s  S 5 *   19
Disbursements ................................ . . ..........              20
Disbursement Profiles ........                     . .......... .          21
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing ............                 22
Monitoring System            ...................................... .      22
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS   .        . ..       ....................... .          23
Past and Present Financial Performance ...................                 23
Revenues .................................................. ........ 23
Financing Plan and Future Financial Performance ..........                 26
VI.  JUSTIFICATION ............................................                  29
Least Cost Solution ........... ...........................                29
Institution Building ... 0...........................                      29
Beneficiaries .....................                           ....         29
Affordability ......0........... ,... ,.......  .*                         30
Economic Justification ..................... .............                 30
Environmental and Health Aspects .........................                 30
Risks ....................................................            .   ....... 31
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................                  32
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1.   Population Distribution
2.    Implementation Schedule
3.   SONEDE's Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)
4.   House connections: past and forecast numbers
5.   Repartition of water consumption over consumers
6.   Water consumption: past and forecast volumes
7.   Project cost and annual investments
8.   Selection criteria for rural centers
9.   Documentation for rural centers
10.   Statement of allocated credits
Il.   Monitoring indicators
12.   Organization chart, SONEDE
13.   Income statement
14.   Cash flow statement
15.   Balance sheets
16.    Financial assumptions
17.    Selected documents in project file
Map No. 16155 - Tunisia: Major water supply systems



TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
General Features
1.01     Centrally located on the southern bank of the Mediterranean Sea,
Tunisia occupies an area of 160,000 km2 which is rather poorly endowed with
natural resources. The Saharan Atlas that runs from west to east at about 280
kms south from the northern coastline, separates the country into two distinct
regions. To the north of the Atlas it is a semi-arid area where a majority of
the population lives and where potentially irrigable land is found. Indus-
tries and other economic activities are concentrated in the northern coastal
areas. The mean annual rainfall in this region fluctuates around 600 mm. To
the south of the Atlas it is an arid land with an average annual rainfall of
less than 100 mm (see Map IBRD No. 14146).
1.02     Tunisia is administratively divided into 18 governorates, 136
counties and 155 communes. Nearly half of the estimated total population of
6.4 million, which is growing at an average annual rate of 2%, is considered
urban. More than one-third of the urban population resides in the two largest
metropolitan areas of Tunis and Sfax. Meanwhile, the rural population is
widely dispersed into more than 3,500 locations which are often isolated from
each other and whose low density population to a great extent impedes rapid
implementation of water supply and sanitation systems.
Water Resources
1.03     The overall water balance in Tunisia is well known.  The total annual
exploitable water resources amounts to 3 billion cubic meters, of which 58% is
already under exploitation including 7% for potable water. By the year 2000,
more than 90% of the exploitable water resources will be under exploitation,
of which 22% for potable water. Most groundwater resources in northern
Tunisia have a limited capacity, making them only suitable for potable water
supply systems for smaller towns, the larger population centers being more and
more dependent on treated surface water. However, most of the fresh surface
water resources are found in the north-west of the country, requiring large
impounding reservoirs to optimize availability and long transmission mains and
canals to convey the water to the consumption centers. These problems are
compounded by the fact Éhat many groundwater resources and some surface water
resources have such a high salinity that, unless mixed with fresh water from
other resources, they are unfit for human consumption or even irrigation.
Water demand for urban and agricultural use could soon exceed the available
water resources, and does so already in the southern part of the country where



-2-
resources are supplemented from the north, and by 1986 even Sfax will have to
be supplemented with water from the north.  Consequently, it becomes gradually
necessary to resort more and more to desalination and reuse of treated waste-
water.
1.04     Prospections have indicated large quantities of fossil groundwater in
the extreme south of the country, in the Continental Intercalaire aquifer
(Jurassic) which extends as far as Morocco and the Continental Terminal
aquifer (Miocene). The great depth (over 1,000 m), the high salinity (over 4
gr/l) and the high temperature (70 C) of these aquifers make large scale
exploitation for potable water at the present non feasible.
1.05     The Ministry of Agriculture manages all water resources in the
country.  The "Société Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux"
(SONEDE), an autonomous public entity, which is supervised by the Ministry of
Agriculture, is responsible for the production and distribution of potable
water in urban areas and large villages. The Direction du Génie Rural (DGR)
is responsible for the rural areas and villages with a population of under
5Q*. Conscious of the need to conserve and use effectively scarce water
resources, the Government enacted in 1975 a water code to regulate the collec-
tion and allocation of the water sources, and to establish usage priorities.
As provided in the code, a National Water Committee was set up to assist the
Ministry of Agriculture in the management of the water resources. The Govern-
ment bas also prepared three master plans for long-range development and use
of the water resources in the northern, central and southern regions of the
country. The first phase of the Northern Master Plan, which involves the
impounding and transfer of the Medjerdah River waters, is under execution.
The Bank is providing financial assistance to the Government (Loan 1431-TUN,
Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project) for the execution of this phase. The second
phase is under preparation with assistance from the German Government. The
Master Plan for Central Tunisia has reached the draft stage and is awaiting
Governnent clearance. The Master Plan for southern Tunisia has been com-
pleted. Bank loan 1796-TUN is for the Southern Irrigation Project based on
this study. Finally, the Government is embarking on a potable water conser-
vation plan which, in the long run, may reduce potable water consumption per
capita by 15%.
Population and Service Levels
1.06     The latest census of 1975 recorded the total population at 5.6 mil-
lion, of which 47.5% or 2.7 million lived in urban areas. Of the rural popu-
lation, which in that year reached 2.9 million or 52.5% of the total popula-
tion, only about one million resided in rural agglomerated villages. The
remaining rural population was dispersed in isolated scattered locations. In
tbe last fifteen years the percentage of rural population compared to the
total population has steadily decreased from 60% in 1966 to the present 50%.
It is anticipated that the rural population will stay during the next ten
years at its present level of about 3 million to represent about 40% of the
total population by 1990.



- 3 -
1.07     The total population is projected to grow at an average annual rate
of 2% through the end of this decade to reach 7.7 million by 1990 and 9.1 mil-
lion by the year 2000. But the urban population would grow at a much faster
rate (about 3.3% per annum), with a substantial part of this growth stemming
from rural migration to urban areas. The population distribution between
urban, rural agglomerated and rural isolated, is likely to continue to move in
favor of the urban population, with the rural dispersed population accounting
for less than 20% of the total population by the end of this century (see
Annex 1). In the event of the population growing at a faster rate than 2 per
cent, e.g. 2.2% as assumed by some planners, the impact on the project would
be favorable as the number of beneficiaries would increase marginally in the
early stages.
1.08     More than 80% of the urban population is concentrated in cities with
more than 10,000 inhabitants. About 12% of this population or 400,000 people
have an income below the Bank-adopted Urban Poverty Threshold (UPT) of D 120
(US$ 240) per person per year. Almost half of the rural agglomerated popula-
tion lives in villages of less than 500 inhabitants. Some 70% of the rural
agglomerations, or about 3,025 villages, have less than 200 inhabitants. As
the average per capita investments in water supply increase as the number of
people per system decreases, it is understandable that SONEDE concentrates its
efforts on the medium-size cities and the larger rural agglomerated villages.
1.09     Presently, about 64% of the total population has access to safe piped
water supply. This includes almost all of the urban population (about 97%) of
which about 80% are supplied with water through private house connections. In
the rural areas only about 24% of the population has access to safe public
water supply, and of these about one in five through private house connec-
tions. These service levels compare favorably with similar countries in
northern Africa.
Constraints and Priorities in the Sector
1.10     The major constraint to rapid expansion of public potable water
supply in Tunisia is the remote location of fresh water sources from the urban
centers, which requires the construction of long transmission pipelines. The
result is that water is very costly because of high capital and operating
expenses of these pipelines. Another constraint is the high salinity of many
sources of which water can only be used in conjunction with fresh water from
other sources. The per capita investments in transmission facilities tend to
become prohibitive as the population per system decreases.
1.11     Because of the high investment costs, the multitude of small rural
agglomerations and budget constraints, the Government has given its first
priority to the urban sector where it could serve more people with its limited
financial resources. The Government's objective for this sector is to have
92% of the urban population connected to the water supply systems by the end
of 1986. The Government's second priority is to provide about 60% of the
agglomerated rural population with potable water in 1986. The scattered rural
population has not yet received much attention, because their settlements are



- 4 -
generally not large enough to warrant the installation of public water supply
systems which would entail exorbitant per capita investments. These people
obtain their water from shallow wells, irrigation canals, cisterns or public
taps at the nearest center.
Previous Bank Loans and Credits in the Sector
1.12     Since 1968, the Bank Group has become extensively involved in the
sector and bas assisted in financing five projects of SONEDE (four loans and a
credit). SONEDE itself was set up in 1968 under the first Bank operation.
The first loan (581-TUN) of US$ 15 million, made in January 1969, was to
finance water supply works in the regions of Tunis and Sousse. In June 1970
the International Development Association made a credit (209-TUN) of US$ 10.5
million to assist in the financing of improvement and expansion works in eight
areas of the country. These first two projects were jointly financed with the
Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA). These two projects con-
stituted the major part of the National Water Supply Program for the 1968-73
period. The projects were successfully implemented albeit with some delay,
and are the subject of a Project Performance Audit Report prepared after
closure of the loan and the credit in December 1976 by the Operations Evalua-
tion Department (OED) (February 1978). The main conclusions of the PPAR are
that the success of these two projects is mainly due to the presence of an
efficient autonomous institution whicb was created in the framework of the
first project, and an equitable tariff policy which insures the financial
viability of this institution. A second loan (989-TUN) of US$ 23 million was
made in May 1974 to help SONEDE finance the construction of water supply
systems for the second largest city, Sfax. This loan was closed on June 30,
1980. A related Project Completion Report was issued on June 25, 1981 and is
presently being reviewed by the OED. The project was also successfully imple-
mented and the main objective to supply the city of Sfax with sufficient water
of an acceptable quality was achieved. A lesson learned from this project,
which is now consequently being implemented by the Bank, is not to appraise a
project on the basis of feasibility studies which were weak and incomplete.
The project design and appraisal estimate had to be revised during the imple-
mentation period, causing cost and time overruns. In June 1977 the Bank
approved a loan of US$ 21 million (Loan 1445-TUN) to finance the construction
of production and distribution facilities in five northern provinces. The
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is co-financing this project. In
May 1979 a sector loan of US$ 25 million (Loan 1702-TUN) to finance the water
supply in a number of rural villages was approved. In addition, the Bank
Group assisted in the financing of a tourism infrastructure project (Loan
858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN of September 28, 1972), which included water supply
works valued at US$ 18.5 million. Finally, the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Pro-
ject (Loan 1431-TUN) includes a potable water supply component. This project
which is mainly geared towards agriculture, includes the construction of the
Sidi Salem dam.  A portion of the water stored in the reservoir behind the dam
will be conveyed to the Tunis, Cap Bon and Sousse areas and will help to
satisfy the domestic and industrial water demand.



1.13     SONEDE's performance under these Bank operations has been good, with
the result of great improvements in the sector. The percentage of urban popu-
lation connected to the systems, which was only 43% in 1968, has now reached
80%. Today SONEDE is a financially viable public entity managed by experi-
enced and dedicated staff.
SONEDE's Fifth Development Plan (1977-81)
1.14      SONEDE performed well in implementing the Fifth Development Plan.
The objective that it had set to serve 64% or 4.1 million of the estimated
1981 population of 6.4 million has been attained. Of this population segment
68% or 2.75 million are served through private bouse connections. During the
Plan period the consumed volume of potable water increased at a rate of 7% per
year from 98 million cubic meters in 1977 to 140 million cubic meters in
1981. Of the total investment program which amounted to D 173 million in
current prices, 162 million or 94% has been realized. As inflation was higher
over the Plan period than anticipated, in constant prices about 89% of the
Fifth Plan has been realized. The under-run is mainly caused by delays in the
realization of the Sahel project caused by the late delivery of the required
pipes. The investments were financed by internal cash generation (D 36.1 mil-
lion), consumers' contributions (D 32.1 million), Government contribution (D
37.4 million) and loans (56.4 million).
SONEDE's Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)
1.15     The Government's objectives for the 1982-86 Plan period in the urban
water supply sector are to keep abreast of the increasing industrial, touris-
tic and domestic water demand, and to augment the proportion of the urban
population having direct access to piped water in their homes from the present
80% to 92%, leaving only 8% of the urban dwellers depending on public stand-
pipes for their water supply. Simultaneously, and as one of the efforts to
discourage urban migration, the Government intends to improve service levels
in the rural areas by improving the water supply systems in 76 semi-rural
centers, and by providing new water supply systems in 212 rural centers. The
agglomerated rural population that is going to have access to a safe water
supply would accordingly increase from the present 675,000 (45%) to about
900,000 (60%), of which one in three is expected to be served through a
private house connection.
1.16     SONEDE has, based on sound technical and economic studies, prepared a
Five Year Development Plan (1982-86) detailing the investments necessary to
achieve the above-mentioned objectives. After discussions between SONEDE, the
relevant authorities in'the supervising Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry
of Finance and Planning and the Bank, the Plan bas been reduced from an origi-
nal D 340 million to D 275 million (in current values) by deferring some
investments of lower priority, and, being considered the least imperfect solu-
tion, is now acceptable to all parties concerned. The related project imple-
mentation schedule is shown in Annex 2. The investment plan (see Annex 3) can
be sub-divided into several categories.



- 6 -
A. Ongoing major projects (D 51.2 million)
This category includes the major regional projects which were started
during the Fifth Development Plan. Studies have been completed and execu-
tion is in progress. Cost estimates are based on contracted prices and
expected price adjustments. The projects concerned and the estimated
current investment costs are:
i.    Water supply for Tunis and Cap Bon (D 8.2 million).
ii.    Reinforcement of the distribution network in Greater Tunis (D 8.5
million).
iii.    Supplying the Sahel with water from the north (D 26.8 million).
iv.    Industrial water for Gabes (D 1.7 million).
v.    Water supply in southern Tunisia (D 6.0 million).
B. New major projects (D 113.5 million)
This category includes the new major regional projects of which implemen-
tation is expected to start during the Plan period. All studies for pro-
jects in this category are in progress or have been completed. The pro-
jects concerned and their cost estimates are:
i.    Water supply to Bizerte, Menzel Bourguiba and Mateur (D 19.8 million).
ii.    Distribution network for the Sahel (D 11.8 million).
iii.    Improvements to water distribution in Sfax (D 5.2 million).
iv.    Supplying Sfax with water from the north (D 39.0 million).
v.    Water supply in the Cap Bon area (D 5.0 million).
vi.    Renewal of supply lines to Tunis (D 2.0 million).
vii.    Water supply in the extreme south (D 30.7 million).
C. Ongoing routine projects (D 68.0 million)
This category includes projects related to normal expansion of production
and distribution systems in middle sized towns; all renewals; acquisition
of equipment and supplies; and construction of office and workshop accom-
modation for SONEDE. Cost estimates amount to D 68.0 million, made on a
trend basis and recent unit prices.
D. Projects in rural areas (D 42.4 million)
This category covers SONEDE's involvement in the rural areas and includes
two types of project:
i.    Improvements to water supply systems in 76 larger rural and semi-
urban centers (D 24.0 million).
ii.    New water supply systems for 212 rural centers (D 18.4 million).



- 7-
The Rural Water Supplies Sub-Sector
1.17     Water supply for the dispersed rural population, including those
living in centers with a population of less than 500, falls within the purview
of the "Direction du Génie Rural" (DGR) of the Ministry of Agriculture. The
activities in this sub-sector have remained rather limited during the Fifth
Plan period (1977-81) and investments amounted to only D 15 million. About
1800 water points were constructed or improved, 900 wells were sanitized and
equiped with hand-pumps and simple water supply systems were constructed in
about 260 rural centers. The Government intends to boost these activities,
and plans to more than double its investments for the Sixth Plan period (1982-
86) with D 20 million in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and a
similar amount to be provided by the Rural Development Program for projects to
be executed by the DGR. Major constraints to develop this sub-sector are the
high costs of per capita investment without cost recovery, and the lack of an
efficient institution to operate and maintain the installations.
The Sewerage Sub-Sector
1.18     The service level in the sewerage sub-sector is significantly lower
than in the water supply sector. In the rural areas, virtually no public
sewerage exists, but most houses provided with private water connections
possess individual waste water disposal systems (septic tanks or seepage
pits). Most urban areas possess rudimentary sewage collection systems, albeit
only an estimated 40% of the urban population have their dwellings connected
to a public sewer (against 71% for Greater Tunis). In an effort to improve on
this situation, the Government, with Bank assistance, established in 1974 a
national sewerage authority, the "Office National de l'Assainissement" (ONAS),
which is responsible for the planning, construction, operation and maintenance
of sewerage systems, as well as for flood control. Up to now ONAS has concen-
trated its activities on Greater Tunis, Sfax and tourism areas, and has
accepted responsibility for the 23 largest communities in the country, cover-
ing about 56% of the urban population, with a connection rate of 62%. ONAS
intends to expand its activities, in order to cover all urban areas by 1990
and achieve a connection rate of 60% by 1986 and 80% by 1990. It invested
about D 65 million during the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) realizing about
20% above its planned activities. For the Sixth Development Plan ONAS has
projected investments up to D 160 million, D 40 million for Greater Tunis and
D 120 million for the remainder of the country.
1.19     The Bank has been active in the sewerage sub-sector and made a first
loan of US$ 28 million to the Government (Loan 1088-TUN - First Urban Sewerage
Project, February 1975) for the expansion of sewage collection systems and
treatment plants for Greater Tunis. A second loan of US$ 26.5 million (Loan
1675-TUN - Second Urban Sewerage Project, April 13, 1979) was made for
sewerage works in Greater Tunis and Sfax. The Bank also financed a Tourism
Infrastructure Project (Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN of September 1972)
including US$ 16.6 million for sewerage works. A third loan is in preparation
for 30 medium sized towns.



-8-
Il. WATER DEMAND
Water Consumption and Production
2.01      Accurate figures on water production and consumption are available
from as far back as 1966 when all house connections were metered and a rigid
maintenance program was introduced. In that year, when only about 40% of the
urban population had access to piped water in their homes, 88.5 million cubic
meters (Mm3) of water were produced of which only 52.7 Mm3 were sold, the
remaining 40% being unaccounted fori/. Since then, water sales have been
growing at an average annual rate of 6.7% to reach 140 Mm3 in 1981 when 80%
of the urban population were served through private house connections, and the
unaccounted-for water was reduced to 30%. Still, this percentage of unac-
counted-for water is, according to sound engineering standards, somewhat high,
and SONEDE's objective is to reduce it to 25% by 1990 and 20% by the year
2000. To achieve this SONEDE has started the preparation of a water conserva-
tion plan. Preliminary studies have indicated that, in the long run, the unit
consumption of potable water could be reduced by 20% to 30% through a number
of measures, such as a leak detection campaign, the compulsory use of low
water consumption fixtures, such as shower heads and flush toilets, the
recirculation of industrial water and reuse of purified waste water. The Plan
will include a campaign for improved service or replacement of faulty water
meters and the installation of divisional and production meters in order to
monitor the results. The Bank plans to assist SONEDE in the further prepara-
tion and implementation of this water conservation effort during future super-
vision missions, by making specific expertise available.
2.02      The average water consumption per connection in the Greater Tunis
area dropped from 386 m3/year (176 lpcd) in 1973 to 248 m3/year (113 lpcd)
in 1980. This reflects the fact that, with time, more and more of the poorer
people, consuming less water, are provided with house connections. In the
rural areas and the smaller towns the average consumption has always been low
and, per connection, remained virtually constant at 135 m3/year (62 lpcd)
over the same period.  The average water consumption per public standpipe
remained around 3000 m3 per year, or about 10 liters per capita per day.
The per capita consumption is expected to increase slowly with the increase of
the standard of living, while consumption through standpipes will slowly be
phased out.
1/  The percentage of unaccounted-for water such as computed by SONEDE is made
up of: (i) water used for fire fighting and street cleaning, which is
estimated to account for about 5% of the total production; (ii) defective
domestic meter recording which is suspected to be about 3% below real
sales volumes; (iii) production overestimation, known to be important for
old springs and wells and believed to average 10% to 15%; and (iv) leaks
in the networks, which are estimated to account for 7% to 10% of the total
production.



-9-
House Connections
2.03     The number of house connections, which was 86,000 in 1966 at a ser-
vice level of 40%, has increased rapidly at an average rate of 12% per year to
reach 465,000 in 1981 at a service level of 80%. As most of the backlog has
been made up for, growth is expected to slow down to a rate of about 6% per
year, and the number of house connections is expected to increase 35,000 per
year to reach 800,000 by 1990. Annex 4 shows the actual number of connections
from 1975 to the present date, and the forecast number up to the year 2000, as
well as the apportionment between the different categories.
Composition of the Demand
2.04     A breakdown of water consumed in 1975 and 1981 apportions the various
uses as a percentage of total use as follows:
1975       1981
…-----%…-------
Domestic (house connections)                     49.2        50.9
Domestic (public standpipes)                      6.0         3.0
Public                                           24.5        22.5
Commercial and industrial                         12.8       17.0
Tourism                                           7.5         6.6
TOTAL                                           100.0       100.0
Most water consumed in Tunisia is for domestic and public (government,
schools, hospitals, etc.) use, accounting for about 80% of total consumption
in 1975 and 77% in 1981. The commercial and industrial use covers about 13%
of total use in 1975 and 17% in 1981, reflecting a moderate but growing level
of industrialization, compared to industrialized countries where this level
usually lies above 35%.
2.05     Of SONEDE's clients, 26% consume less than 10 m3 of water per
quarter or in the aggregate 3.4% of all water .sold; 77% consume less than 40
m3 per quarter, the quantity sold in the lower tariff bracket, being in the
aggregate 32% of all water sold. On the other end of the scale, 1.8% of the
clients consume more than 150 m3 per quarter, or in total, 28% of all water
sold. Annex 5 illustrates the repartition of water consumed per consumer, as
well for domestic consumption as for total consumption.
Future Water Sales
2.06     Figures on the actual quantities of water produced and consumed from
1975 up to 1981, and forecasts up to the year 1986 and beyonid, are summarized
in Annex 6. Future water sales have been projected making use of three dif-
ferent methods, the analytical method, the trend method, and the method making



- 10 -
use of mathematical models. In the first method, forecasts are elaborated for
consumption in Greater Tunis and in the remainder of the country, and sub-
divided into domestic consumption, standpipes, public consumption, tourism,
industry and other, and based on population growth, service levels and unit
consumption. In the second method the same geographical repartition has been
maintained, and future consumption has been estimated by extrapolating past
consumption trends. The third method is based on mathematical models where
the consumption is expressed as a time function and based on statistical
figures from the 1973-80 period. All three methods only slightly consider the
proposed water conservation measures (para 2.01) as the overall impact is
still unreliable. The results of the mathematical model have been adopted for
the long term forecast up to the year 2000. The results of the three methods
are very close and give estimated water consumption in millions of m3 as
follows:
FORECAST WATER CONSUMPTION
1982      1983       1984      1985       1986
-----------million m  per year-------------
Analytical method                  147.6     159.0      169.8      180.4     190.8
Trend method                       150.2     159.4      169.2     179.8      191.1
Mathematical model                 149.5     159.6      170.4      181.9     194.2



- il -
III. THE BORROWER
Background
3.01      The borrower of the proposed sector loan would be SONEDE, the
national water supply authority, which was established in 1968 to replace a
Government office, the "Régie de Distribution des Eaux (RDE)", in an effort to
improve the financial and technical management of the sector.  SONEDE has the
status of an autonomous public enterprise, and is managed as a commercial
undertaking.  It is owned by the Government and operates under the tutelage of
the Ministry of Agriculture. SONEDE is the borrower and beneficiary of pre-
vious Bank Group lending to the sector (Loan 581-TUN, Credit 209-TUN, Loans
989, 1445 and 1702-TUN), as well as the executing agency for the water supply
component of the Tourism Infrastructure Project (Loan 858-TUN and Credit
329-TUN) and the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project (Loan 1431-TUN).
Past Performance
3.02      As previously mentioned (paragraph 1.13), SONEDE has successfully
implemented the projects financed by the first Bank credits and loans. Most
of the project facilities became operational in 1978, and water supply ser-
vices in the project areas have since greatly improved. The implementation of
the fourth and fifth water supply projects (Loans 1445 and 1702-TUN) is pro-
gressing well and according to the appraisal schedule. The setting up of
SONEDE has also been successful and has produced the reforms necessary for
improving water supply operations in the country. At the end of 1981, after
thirteen years of operations, SONEDE has more than doubled its water sales
(from 63.4 Mm3 in 1968 to 140 Mm3 in 1981), and more than quadrupled the
number of house connections (from 102,000 to 465,000).
Organization and Management
3.03      Annex 12 shows the current organizational structure of SONEDE.  A
Board of twelve members, chaired by SONEDE's General Manager, supervises the
company's activities. Nine Board members are public officials and represent
the Government Ministries and other public agencies involved in the water
resources sector. The remaining three Board members, though appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture, represent the private sector and SONEDE's customers.
The overall control exercised by the Government, beyond the appointment of the
Board Directors, covers other decision processes such as approval of the
company's investment programs, borrowings and tariff levels.
3.04      The General Manager is appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and
is responsible for the day-to-day operations which are handled by five depart-
ments; two departments for production and distribution in Greater Tunis and
the rest of the country, and three for new works, engineering studies, and
administration and finance. Two divisions in charge of internal audit and



- 12 -
organization, and operational control assist the General Manager in preparing
long-range planning and policies. Under the existing agreements for the pre-
vious loans, SONEDE is committed to consult with the Bank before making any
changes in its organization and administrative structure.
Staffing
3.05     At the end of April 1981, SONEDE's staff numbered 3,820, or an
average of 1.06 employee per 1,000 people served. This ratio is considered
adequate for SONEDE's decentralized organization type, and should decrease
slowly, as SONEDE is now sufficiently staffed with engineering and administra-
tive personnel to meet the requirements of further expansion of its opera-
tions. SONEDE's salaries and conditions of service are competitive with those
of other sectors and are adequate to recruit and retain qualified personnel.
3.06     Current staff training in SONEDE is considered satisfactory.  In col-
laboration with the Employment and Training Office, SONEDE maintains a con-
tinuous training program for its personnel. In addition, a number of short-
term seminars covering various aspects of its operations are arranged each
year by SONEDE for its staff. It also regularly arranges for overseas
scholarships for its engineers to specialize in sanitary engineering and other
areas related to water supply. SONEDE is also giving attention to the train-
ing of its staff on the planning, financial and economic evaluation of pro-
jects. In the future, the staff will be encouraged to follow specialized
courses of the Economic Development Institute of the Bank Group and of other
advanced institutions.
Current Practices and Procedures
3.07     SONEDE's accounting system is comprehensive.  Its financial accounts,
billing of water sales, related charges and new connections, inventory control
and payroll are performed on a computer programmed and operated by its staff.
A cost accounting section monitors the cost effectiveness of each section and
activity. SONEDE performs annual physical inventory controls and recorded
levels of inventories are reliable.
3.08     SONEDE's operations are monitored by a Technical Controller and a
Financial Controller who are appointed by the Government, and who are advisory
members of the Board of Directors. In addition, an external audit of SONEDE's
financial statements is carried out annually by independent auditors who are
acceptable to the Bank. The existing arrangements between the Bank and SONEDE
provide for the submission to the Bank of the auditors' annual report within
six months after the close of each fiscal year. Future audit reports will
include a paragraph on expenditures made for works carried out on force
account and credits made to low income consumers (see para 4.21). In the
past, audits have been satisfactory and received with only slight delays. The
covenant on audit has been restated in the agreement for the proposed project.



- 13 -
3.09     SONEDE bills its customers on a rotating basis every three months for
the volume of water consumed and for a fixed charge covering meter rent and
connection maintenance. Collection from customers is efficient. As of
December 31, 1980, accounts receivable stood at about 2 months of sales.
Accounts receivable from private consumers were at about 55 days of billing,
while accounts receivable from the Government offices and municipalities were
at about 109 days of sales. The Government, at SONEDE's request, had put into
effect a special collection system from Government agencies. The system,
which was extended to include municipal authorities in 1978, is based on early
transfer of a portion of the water consumption budget at the concerned
agencies to SONEDE, with accounts to be settled at year end. The existing
agreements between the Government and the Bank commit the former to take all
necessary steps to enable SONEDE to receive full payment for water consumed by
all national, regional and municipal entities within 120 days of billing.
However, since such payment is made through budgetary allocations under the
Government collection system from Government agencies, it is proposed to main-
tain the corresponding covenant in the legal documents.
3.10     SONEDE carries insurances covering motor vehicles, fire damages for
buildings, third party liability and special coverage for damages caused by
polluted water accidentally distributed by SONEDE, all of which are considered
adequate. SONEDE is self-insured for workments compensation and has set up a
special fund for this purpose. Projections of the fund requirements indicate
that the current contributions towards this fund are sufficient. All supply
and civil works contracts for the project will be insured by private companies
against loss and damage in shipment, accidents, fire and property damages.
Project Implementation Capacity
3.11     Although, at first glance, SONEDE's Sixth Development Plan appears to
be rather ambitious, being 60% higher in current values than the Fifth Devel-
opment Plan, in constant values or in physical volume it is only about 8%
higher. SONEDE has the capacity to implement such a Plan, having satisfac-
torily implemented the Fifth Plan and having increased its staff by about 25%
over the last Plan period (1977-81). For the coming Plan period, 1982-86,
this growth is expected to continue at a somewhat slower rate of 2% per year,
which, however, will be more than adequate to cope with the additional work-
load. Likewise, it is not expected that SONEDE will encounter major difficul-
ties in preparing the 200 or so studies required for the rural centers. The
design office is well staffed, with over 30 highly qualified and well moti-
vated senior professional staff, including engineers, hydrologists, statisti-
cians, and an economist, supported adequately by lower level staff. Besides,
eight more engineers are expected to be engaged before May 1982. In order to
streamline design procedures, SONEDE is establishing three regional design
offices, attached to the regional directors, which will inter alia facilitate
and speed up the gathering of basic information for the central design office,
and undertake designs of the simpler projects on the spot.



- 14 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Genesis
4.01     The proposed project is the result of a continuing dialogue between
the Bank and SONEDE on the sector development and ways to finance SONEDE's
investments. This dialogue has in the past resulted in five Bank projects and
the establishment of SONEDE during the first one. In the framework of the
fifth project SONEDE has undertaken to prepare a study called the "National
Water Supply Plan", including a review of past performance, service levels,
objectives for future involvement and a tariff study. The study recommends a
revised long term financial policy based on a financial equilibrium for SONEDE
where revenues should cover all normal current expenditures and debt service
and a self-financing of 40% of new investments (see Chapter V). On the basis
of this study, SONEDE has prepared its Sixth Development Plan for the period
1982-86 and proposals for a tariff increase in line with the new financial
policy. The proposed project would result in a Bank participation of about 6%
in the financing of SONEDE's Sixth Development Plan (1982-86).
Project Objectives
4.02     The objectives of the project are;
(i) to strengthen SONEDE in:
(a) its financial position by supporting the adoption of a new long
range financial policy aiming at a "Financial Equilibrium" which
would allow SONEDE to self-finance about 40% of its future
investments through inter alia periodic tariff adjustments
(b) its involvement in the rural areas;
(c) its capacity for developing and managing sector type projects.
(ii)  to induce other financing agencies (international, bilateral and pri-
vate) to participate in the financing of SONEDE's Development Plan.
Experience has demonstrated that the Bank's involvement in projects
acts as a catalyst to other lenders, so although the Bank's financial
contribution would only represent about 6% of SONEDE's Sixth Develop-
ment Plan, it would greatly enhance SONEDE's creditability for other
loans, thus ensuring a total financing of the Development Plan.
(iii)  to improve living conditions in the rural areas by making safe water
available to an increased portion of the rural population;
(iv)  to encourage the less affluent section of the population in urban as
well as in rural areas to connect up to the piped water supply sys-
tems by providing them with credit facilities for the related costs.



- 15 -
(v) to reduce potable water consumption through the preparation and
implementation of a water conservation plan.
SONEDE's Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)
4.03     The proposed project covers a small portion of SONEDE's Sixth Devel-
opment Plan as described in paragraphs 1.16 and 1.17. The Plan is well pre-
pared and based on sound technical and economic studies and least cost
solutions, and includes all investments required to achieve the objectives the
Government has set for the Sixth Plan period (see para. 1.16). These objec-
tives are realistic and aim at maintaining and slightly improving the service
levels in the urban areas and greatly improving the service level for the
agglomerated rural population, in a general effort to enhance agricultural
production by improving living conditions in rural areas and discouraging
migration of rural dwellers to urban areas.
4.04     The bulk of SONEDE's investments are planned to be realized during
the first three years of the Plan period (D 178 million out of D 275 million
in current values) so that unavoidable and unforeseeable delays will have only
a minor impact on total investments planned for the five year period. It has
been estimated that out of the planned D 275 million in current values (D 234
million in constant March 1982 values), D 264 million in current values (D 224
million in March 1982 constant values) or about 95% can be realized (see Annex
3). An implementation schedule (Annex 2) indicates a tentative timing for all
activities related to SONEDE's sixth investment plan, including the proposed
Bank project.
4.05      SONEDE proposes to finance its investment plan for 24% out of
internal cash generation, 20% out of consumers' constributions, 39% from
identified and expected external borrowing and 17% from Government contribu-
tions, as discussed in detail in para. 5.14.
Project Description
4.06      The proposed project would be a sector loan covering SONEDE's activi-
ties in the rural areas and the house connections program, both for a three
and a half year period (January 1982 - June 1985) and would include:
(i)    the expansion and improvement of existing water supply systems and
the construction of new water supply systems in about 150 rural
villages and semi-urban centers, all having populations over 500, and
assuming that about 60% of the villages and centers included in the
Plan would be eligible for Bank financing;
(ii)    credit facilities for low-income customers of SONEDE, covering the
cost of the individual bouse connections and related works;
(iii)    the acquisition of about 80,000 water meters for the house connec-
tions mentioned above.



- 16 -
Project Cost
4.07     The project cost is estimated at D 31.8 million (US$ 63.6 million)
with a foreign exchange component of D 16.0 million (US$ 32.0 million),
expressed in March 1982 prices, and is made up as shown in the following
table. The detailed project cost and annual investments are set out in
Annex 7. Total required Bank financing including the 1.5% front end fee
amounts to uS$ 30.5 million.
PROJECT COST
Local  Foreign  Total       Local   Foreign   Total
------D million------    ------us$ million------
I. Rural Centers          8.160   8.025   16.185    16.320  16.050   32.370
II. House Connections      7.000   7.000   14.000    14.000  14.000   28.000
Sub-Total             15.160  15.025   30.185    30.320  30.050   60.370
III. Water Meters           0.620   1.000    1.620        1.240   2.000    3.240
Total project cost          15.780  16.025   31.805    31.560  32.050   63.610
Front end fee                 -        225       225       -        450       450
Total required financing  15.780  16.250   32.030    31.560  32.500   64.060
4.08     The cost estimates include all taxes and customs duties, amounting
to 20% of the total cost, as well as physical (15%) and price contingen-
cies. The Government has requested that the 1.5 per cent front end fee, or
approximately US$ 450,000, be financed out of the Bank loan. Price escala-
tion, for local as well as foreign procurement, is projected to average
8.5% for 1982 and 7.5% for 1983 through 1985. The current exchange rate of
the Tunisian dinar to the US dollar (IUS$ = DT 0.500) is assumed to remain
constant during the project execution.
4.09     The Bank loan of US$ 30.5 million would cover the full foreign
exchange cost of the rural centers and house connections component as well
as the front end fee. Local cost for these components and the cost of
water meters will be borne by SONEDE and government equity contributions.
Rural Water Supplies Component
4.10     SONEDE has an ongoing program to expand its activities in the
rural areas and plans, in the framework of the Six.th Development Plan
(1982-86), to introduce new water supply systems in about 212 villages
scattered all over the country. The population of these villages, which do
not possess public water supply systems at the moment, varies from 500 to



- 17 -
2000, with an average around 600. The inhabitants of these villages depend
for their water supply on usually polluted sources, such as wells, surface
water, or rainwater, or they fetch water from a neighbouring center already
provided with a public water supply system. Water vendors flourish in
these villages, selling water at prices as high as 10 millimes per liter.
This same expansion program also includes for the Plan period 76 large
villages and semi-urban centers where SONEDE is already in charge of the
water supply, but where urgent improvements and extensions to the produc-
tion or distribution systems are necessary. These centers have a popula-
tion varying from 2000 to 20,000, with an average of about 3,800.
4.11     The rural water supplies component of the proposed Bank project
consists of a slice of this ongoing program, covering practically all
investments during the first three years of the Plan period (1982-84). The
estimated project cost amounts to about 60% of the planned investments for
the Plan period. A selection procedure, described in detail in para. 4.12,
will ensure that priority is given to those centers where, with the limited
funds available, benefits are maximized.
Selection Criteria
4.12     The proposed project will yield benefits to three types of con-
sumers: (i) those having no access to a public water supply at the moment
and who would be provided with water through public standpipes; (ii)
similar to the first group, but who would be provided with water through
private house connections, and (iii) those consumers in the larger vil-
lages, now having access to public water through standpipes, and who,
thanks to the project, would be be able to obtain water in their homes
through private house connections. Each type of beneficiary will benefit
through the consumption of an increased quantity of safe public water, and
in order to maximize the benefits of the project, the cost of water must be
minimized. Accordingly, the main selection criterion is related to the
marginal cost of water for the system under consideration, which should be
limited to a predetermined ceiling value. This value has been so deter-
mined that 60% of the projects qualify, and is computed making use of a
statistical model based on the analysis of a representative sample of 15
village water supplies. The resulting selection criterion is that the mar-
ginal cost of water for any village under consideration should be less than
US$ 1.50 equivalent per cubic meter in 1981 values. The method of calcu-
lating the marginal cost for each rural water supply system is exposed in
Annex 8. The adopted ceiling value is reasonable and amounts to about 2.8
times the average marginal cost of water in Tunisia as a whole. As can be
expected, the cost of water in rural centers is higher than the average
country cost because of a lack of economy of scales and the unfavourable
climatological and hydrogeological conditions in the interior, where most
of the villages are situated. Other selection criteria include (i) the
total estimated project cost per village water supply system should be less
than US$ 1.5 million equivalent in 1981 prices; (ii) the proposed project
should be the least cost solution; (iii) sufficient water resources for the
life span of the project should have been identified and (iv) local cost
financing should be secured. Sub-projects satisfying all five selection
criteria would automatically qualify for financing under the Bank project.



- 18 -
Sub-projects not satisfying one or more of the selection criteria would
require a special justification by SONEDE and the explicit approval of the
Bank to qualify for Bank financing.
4.13     For each sub-project SONEDE will prepare a feasibility study and
an appraisal report following the outline given in Annex 9. For sub-
projects satisfying all selection criteria, SONEDE will make these reports
available to the Bank for ex post review. For sub-projects not satisfying
one or more of the selection criteria, SONEDE will forward these reports,
together with an additional project justification, to the Bank for ex ante
review and to obtain explicit approval in writing for Bank financing.
SONEDE demonstrated its capability and capacity to prepare these studies
and reports, based on design criteria acceptable to the Bank, in the frame-
work of the fifth water supply project whicb is progressing satisfactorily.
4.14     During negotiations assurances were obtained from SONEDE that it
will follow the selection criteria as described in para. 4.12, and pre-
pare and forward to the Bank, before related bids are awarded, the feasi-
bility studies and appraisal reports as described in para. 4.13.
House connections
4.15     SONEDE has an ongoing program to install house connections on
force account and is expecting to install about 35,000 house connections
per year during the Sixth Plan period (1982-86) (see Annex 4). A bouse
connection becomes the property of the consumer after having been installed
by SONEDE at cost. The water meter remains the property of SONEDE, for
which the consumer is charged a rental fee which he pays quarterly,
together with a maintenance fee for his connection and the charges for the
consumed water. SONEDE extends credit facilities to low income consumers
so that they also are able to connect up to the water distribution system.
Records show that about 75% of all connections are made on credit. The
credit program is, however, declining as SONEDE has difficulties in secur-
ing the required foreign exchange. In order to safeguard the credit pro-
gram, which secures access to safe potable water for the poor, a house
connections component, covering 75% of a three and a half year slice of
SONEDE's house connections program has been included in the proposed Bank
project. The Bank will finance the foreign exchange component of the bouse
connection, estimated at 50%, and SONEDE will finance the local cost com-
ponent. SONEDE will submit to the Bank, on a monthly basis, a list of all
bouse connections that benefited from a SONEDE credit, showing the amounts
of the granted credits (see Annex 10), and the Bank will reimburse the
foreign exchange component of 50% to SONEDE. Credit facilities are only
extended for domestic supplies to consumers owning their bouses, or to
leaseholders subject to agreement of the owner, who assumes joint liabil-
ity. Commercial and industrial consumers are excluded. Experience has
shown that virtually all connections made on credit belong to low income
consumers, consuming less than 40m3 per quarter, and 18 m3 per quarter
on the average. It is therefore agreed not to burden the application pro-
cedures more by imposing additional eligibility criteria. The interest



- 19 -
rate will be the average between the Bank rate (11.6%) and the Tunisian re-
discountable rate (9.75% in 1982). Moneys received from clients in repay-
ment of their credits will be used again to finance additional house
connections. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that SONEDE's
credit facilities for financing house connections will be based on a
redemption period of five years, and an interest rate which will be the
average between the rate for local medium term credits available to SONEDE
and the Bank rate, and will be in the order of 11% p.a.
Water Meters
4.16     The third and last component of the proposed project covers the
acquisition of the water meters required to implement SONEDE's house con-
nections program (see para. 4.15). As the water meters remain the property
of SONEDE and are not covered under the credit facilities for house connec-
tions, they are included in the proposed project as a separate component.
SONEDE intends to purchase the water meters of local manufacturers through
LCB, and finance the purchase from its own resources.
Procurement
4.17     The rural water supplies component of the proposed project will
comprise a large number of small sub-projects widely dispersed, both in
time and location. It is therefore not expected that contracts for civil
works, including the laying of pipes, and with an estimated total volume of
US$ 16.5 million, will attract international attention. Local competi-
tive bidding, according to SONEDE's standard procedures which are accept-
able to the Bank, is therefore the most efficient and economic method of
procurement, and is foreseen for all works contracts under US$ 800,000
equivalent. For the exceptional civil works contracts above US$ 800,000
ICB is foreseen. For works in some of the smaller and isolated villages it
will even be doubtful to attract local contractors at reasonable rates. It
is therefore foreseen that 15% of the civil works, representing up to
US$ 2.5 million, will be executed under force account by, or on behalf of,
SONEDE.
4.18     Most of the equipment and pipes and fittings with an estimated
total amount of US$ 17.5 million will be procured in bulk by SONEDE and put
at the disposal of the civil works contractors. These contracts will be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines, and a margin of preference of 15% or the actual
customs duties (whichever is less) will be allowed for domestic manufac-
turers. Smaller contracts, for which grouping is not practicable and for
which ICB would be too cumbersome, will be procured through local competi-
tive bidding, in accordance with SONEDE's standard procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. For this type of contract, an individual and
aggregate ceiling of US$ 200,000 and US$ 1 million have been agreed upon.
Contract Review
4.19     Between 100 and 150 contracts are expected to make up the esti-
mated US$ 18.5 million in the materials supply category under the proposed



- 20 -
project. A proposed threshold of US$ 200,000 for prior Bank review of
procurement documentation would result in about 15% of the number of con-
tracts covering about 80% of the value contracted. On that basis about 20
contracts amounting to about US$ 15 million over the five year procurement
period would be subject to prior review. Random checking of smaller supply
contracts would be carried out in the field. About 200 contracts are
expected to make up for the estimated US$ 13.8 million in the works cate-
gory. Most of these contracts will be small with an average value of US$
70,000, and are expected to be local. They will be checked at random
during supervision missions, with the exception of the very few contracts
above US$ 800,000 which will be subject to prior Bank review.
Disbursements
4.20     The proposed loan of US$ 30.5 million would be disbursed against
the cost of the project items as follows:
Category                   Amount of the loan        % of expenditure
allocated expressed in       to be financed
US$ million
1. Civil Works
(a) Carried out by                     4.80                      40
contractors
(b) Carried out through                1.00                      40
force account
2. Acquisition of materials                 8.25               100% of foreign
(with or without instal-                                  expenditure and
lation)                                                    60% of local
expenditure
3. Credits to low-income consumers         14.00                     50
4. Front end fee on Bank loan               0.45                  amount due
5. Unallocated                              2.00
TOTAL                30.50
4.21     Disbursements for works on force account, and for credits allocated
to consumers, will be made against certificates of expenditure and statements
of allocated credits, as this is the only practicable method. The supporting
documentation is not to be submitted for review but has to be retained by
SONEDE and kept available for inspection by the Bank during the course of
supervision missions (see Annex 10). SONEDE has the administrative and
accounting capability to prepare and maintain the necessary records, and



- 21 -
furthermore, these certificates of expenditure and statements of allocated
credits will be audited by independent auditors who are acceptable to the Bank
(3.08).
4.22     The closing date of the proposed loan would be December 31, 1986 to
allow sufficient time to complete the project and to release retention monies.
4.23     The estimated schedule of disbursements is as follows:
Estimated schedule of Disbursements
FY and semester                    Disbursements            Cumulative             %
per semester
-----------US$ millions----------
1983
Ist Semester                          3.46                    3.46             il
2nd Semester                          4.70                    8.16             27
1984
Ist Semester                          4.26                   12.42             41
2nd Semester                          5.06                   17.48             58
1985
lst Semester                          4.64                   22.12             74
2nd Semester                          4.28                   26.40             88
1986
lst Semester                          2.00                   28.40             95
2nd Semester                          1.00                   29.40             98
1987
Ist Semester                          1.10                   30.50            100
Disbursement Profiles
4.24      Statistical evidence in the Bank shows that disbursements for the
Water Supply sector in the EMENA region extend over an eight year period,
while country-wide disbursement for Tunisia was extended over seven and a half
years. Taking into account that the proposed project is a sector loan cover-
ing a three year slice of a small portion of SONEDE's investment plan, and the
relative efficiency of the implementing agency, it is highly probable that the
proposed project can be completed and fully disbursed within a five year
period.



- 22 -
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
4.25      The proposed project covers a portion of SONEDE's Development Plan
for the 1982-86 period, of which implementation will be started on January 1,
1982. Studies for the water supply systems in the rural areas are well
advanced and the first bid documents are expected to be ready early 1982.
Except for house connections, no expenditures of any importance are expected
to be made before the signing of the loan, which is expected to take place in
June 1982. The house connections component of the proposed project consists
of a slice of a continuing program where SONEDE is expected to allocate
credits as from January 1, 1982. It would mean undue hardship and suffering
for the truly needy if the house connections program had to be delayed for
about six months, till after the signing of the loan. Also, in order to con-
tribute to a speedy and effective execution of the project, it is recommended
that SONEDE be allowed advance contracting in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines, and retroactive financing for the house connections component up
to an amount of US$ 2.0 million, which is about 7% of the loan amount.
Minitoring System
4.26      During project execution appropriate indicators will monitor the
financial and technical targets set for the project. Annex 11 provides the
forecast values of these indicators which have been discussed with SONEDE
during negotiations, and which may be adjusted annually in agreement with the
Bank. Assurances were obtained during negotiations from SONEDE that:
(i)    it will report quarterly to the Bank on the progress of the project
components and on the evolution of the relevant monitoring
indicators; and
(ii)    it will take any reasonable remedial action discussed with the Bank,
should this become desirable, for the proper execution of the pro-
ject, the efficient management of the institution, or meeting the
targets as set by the monitoring indicators.
Progress in the execution of house connections to be financed under the res-
pective project component will be monitored through the statements on allo-
cated credits.
4.27     Also, agreement was reached at negotiations that within six months
following the closing date of the loan SONEDE will prepare and submit to the
Bank a completion report on the execution and the initial operation of the
project components, the costs and the benefits derived or to be derived
thereof, the performance and the fulfilment by SONEDE of its obligations under
the Loan Agreement, and the accomplishment of the objectives of the Bank loan.



- 23 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Financial Performance
5.01      SONEDE's income statements, cash flow statements and balance sheets
for the years 1978 through 1981 are shown in Annexes 13, 14 and 15. SONEDE
has in the past (1978-1981) earned a surplus averaging US$ 6.0 million (D 3.0
million) a year. The average rate of return on its net fixed assets in opera-
tion, after deduction of customers' contribution, and estimated assets in vil-
lages with less than 2,000 inhabitants!/, fluctuated between 8.1% and 11.4%
during the period 1978 to 1980 and satisfied the financial covenants for these
years. During the same period the operating ratio varied beween 63% in 1979
and 76% in 1980. Preliminary results of 1981 indicates, however, a decline in
profitability. This is due to rapidly increasing operating costs resulting
mainly from general salary adjustments in the.country, and deferral of action
on tariffs until the beginning of 1982 when the Sixth Development Plan and
related financing plan are determined (para. 5.08 below). Including the pre-
liminary results of 1981, SONEDE has financed about 38% of its investment pro-
grams out of internally generated funds and customers' contributions over the
period 1978-1981; in addition, the Government contributed about 22% of these
investments in the form of equity.  The remainder (40%) was financed through
medium and long-term loans.
5.02     The major part of SONEDE's initial equity was provided by the Govern-
ment in transferring the ownership of fixed assets (less related debts) of the
"Regie de Distribution des Eaux" (RDE) to SONEDE (see para. 3.01). These
assets were valued at about US$ 32.0 million (D 16.0 million). With its
steady improvement in surplus earnings and customers' contributions SONEDE was
able to build up its own equity which passed from D 93.0 million in 1978 to
D 154.3 million in 1981. SONEDE's funds constitute 55%-60% of its equity,
while the remainder is provided by accumulated Government contributions.
5.03      SONEDE's working capital (current assets less current liabilities
excluding customers' deposits) was adequate in the last four years. The cur-
rent assets/liabilities ratio averaged about 1.1 during this period and is
projected to stay at the same level in the years covered by the projections.
Cash balances were adequate also for day-to-day operations and they are pro-
jected to increase slightly with regard to the requirements of operation. The
debt:equity ratio which remained around 25;75 between 1978 and 1980 is fore-
cast to increase to a level of 34:66 between 1982 and 1987. SONEDE's debt
service ratio was satisfactory at a level of approximately equal to or higher
than 2.
Revenues
5.04      SONEDE derives its revenues essentially from water sales through con-
nections which are practically all metered, and from charges for meter rentals
1/ This definition was agreed upon under the Fifth Water Supply Project to
SONEDE (Section 5.05 of Loan Agreement 1702-TUN).



- 24 -
and connections maintenance. Water consumed through standpipes is paid for by
the communities. In addition, new customers pay the cost of their connections
plus a contribution towards the capital cost of the distribution network and a
deposit covering at least three months of service. SONEDE levies for the
Governxnent a tax of 4.3% on water sales, and of 7.5% on services. SONEDE
accords credit facilities to the new low income customers for payment of the
connection costs and contribution to the cost of the distribution networks.
Credit plus interest is repaid over a five year period with installments added
to customers water invoices billed quarterly. Up to the end of 1981, con-
sumers were charged interest on these credits at 8% per annum; effective
January 1982 this rate was increased to 11% per annum (para. 4.15).
5.05     SONEDE's average tariff until the end of 1981 was about D 0.120/m3
(US$ 0.24/m3).  The related tariff structure which is uniform throughout the
country, was implemented in late 1979 and was sufficient to finance the
Company's operations, debt service and a considerable portion of its invest-
ment program. With the effects of inflation and based on a new approach
linking action on tariffs to a self-financing ratio of its investments program
(paras. 5.08, 5.09), it became necessary for SONEDE to adopt increases in
tariffs in 1982. A two-step tariff increase in 1982 had been approved by
SONEDE and the Government: the first increase went into effect in February
1982 and the second one is scheduled for July 1, 1982. With the implementa-
tion of these two increases the average tariff would be about D 0.175/m3
during 1982 implying thus an increase over 1981 average tariff by about 45%.
A comparison of both the current and planned tariff structures with the former
one is as follows:
Old            Ist increase      2nd increase
Consumption                 Structure        (February 1982)    (July 1982)
…D/m3-------D/mJ per quarter…--------------
Domestic       first 20m3 ?         0.068                0.068             0.068
Commercialf   second 20m3                                0.075             0.085
and
Industrial)   next 3Om3             0.110               0.130              0.150
any excess           0.150               0.220              0.250
Public and Standpipes               0.110                0.130             0.150
Tourism                             0.220               0.300              0.300
5.06     The new tariff structure maintains progressive rates for all types of
consumption other than public and tourism, and reduces the first block of pro-
gressive rate from 40m3 to 20m3 per quarter which is more in line with
basic needs threshold. The rate for this block is maintained at its previous
level while the new block corresponding to the second 20m3 per quarter was
established at a rate 10% higher than the basic tariff. All other tariffs
have been increased at rates that vary between 20% for consumption in the
lower brackets and about 47% for consumption which exceeds 70m3 per quar-
ter. Tariffs for this bracket, as well as for tourism, were established on



- 25 -
the basis of economic cost of water with the objective to induce large
consumers to restrict their water usage, which in turn would help to reduce
SONEDE's capital outlays.  The tariff structure shows that tariffs for these
highest brackets approximate the long run average incremental cost of water
supply in the country based on 10% discount factor (D 0.275/m3).
5.07     While consumers who consume less than 20m3 per quarter will suffer
no increase in their water bîlls under the new structure, low income consumers
who on average do not consume more than 40m3 per quarter would bear a slight
increase of about 5% in their bills but will maintain the share of their
spending on water consumption to their revenues within the affordability mar-
gin (para. 6.05). The tariff structure takes into account the high cost of
meeting peak demands of tourism and industrial facilities. The impact of the
new tariff on the average hotel operating cost per bed per night, will be very
slight (0.1%). With regard to industrial use, the increase will be easily
absorbed as the cost of water represents between 0.5% to 1.4% of the total
cost of purchase of materials for industrial process.
5.08     SONEDE was requested by the Bank under the Fifth Water Supply Project
(1702-TUN) to undertake a review of its financial policies and objectives to
ensure the continuing rapid development and self-financing of the sector. The
review was prepared simultaneously with the preparation of SONEDE'S investment
plan for 1982-86, which is part of the Sixth National Development Plan cover-
ing the same period. The concept of financial equilibrium was introduced by
SONEDE, in concurrence with the Government, with the aim to ensure that a sub-
stantial portion of SONEDE'S capital requirements be financed by its own
internal cash generation. Tariffs should be established accordingly on the
basis of economic criteria and affordability in the case of low income
customers. A similar review will be made systematically within the prepara-
tion of future five year plans and tariffs should be revised on an annual
basis or as required during the plan period to compensate for inflation and to
ensure the achievement of the self-financing ratio.
5.09     SONEDE'S approach is sound as it links action on tariffs in the
future to its self-financing ratio of its capital requirements. Furthermore,
the proposed objectives, which would also ensure an acceptable rate of return
(Para 5.16) would assist in obtaining the Government's understanding and
endorsement for a timely action on tariffs, and, hence, in ensuring SONEDE'S
financial viability.
5.10     Thus, and based on the understanding established under the Fifth
Water Supply Project (Loan 1702-TUN)î/ where it was concluded that a change
in financial objectives should be considered once the review of the National
Water Supply Plan is completed, it was agreed during negotiations to replace
the rate of return covenant in the existing Loan Agreements (Loans 1445-TUN
and 1702-TUN) with a cash generation covenant whereby SONEDE is required to
cover about 20% of its investments through net internal cash generation.
1/ See SAR No. 2393a-TUN, para. 5.10 (i)



- 26 -
Existing Loan Agreements for the Fourth and Fifth Water Supply Projects (Loans
1445 and 1702-TUN) have, therefore, been amended by the following covenants,
which were agreed upon with SONEDE and the Government during negotiations:
(i)    SONEDE is required to generate for each of its fiscal years, starting
in 1982, funds from internal sources sufficient to cover, in addition
to operating expenses (excluding depreciation), debt service and
increase in working capital other than cash, not less than 20% of the
average estimated capital expenditures to be incurred during each
such fiscal year and the following two fiscal years.
(ii)    Before November 30 of each fiscal year, starting in 1982, SONEDE
sehall, on the basis of forecasts prepared to the satisfaction of the
Bank, review the adequacy of its tariffs in order to adjust its
tariffs to meet the requirements set forth in 5.10 (i) above, and
shall provide the Bank with a copy of such review report and the pro-
posed rates adjustments.
5.11      Furthermore, the Bank reached an understanding with SONEDE and the
Government during negotiations that SONEDE will take all necessary measures to
finance from its revenues plus customers' contributions not less than 40% of
its estimated investments to be incurred during its fiscal years 1982-86 and
during each subsequent Development Plan period or time period as shall be
agreed upon between the Bank and SONEDE.
5.12      Under its  financing plan for 1982-86 (para 5.13) SONEDE'S objective
is to have about 20% of its capital requirements financed by its net internal
cash generation. To achieve this, SONEDE has finalized a tariff study and has
already implemented a first tariff increase in February 1982 and received
Government approval to apply another increase in July 1982 (para. 5.05). Ac-
cordingly, the average tariff will pass from D 0.120 in 1981 to D 0.175/m3
in 1982. Other increases are envisaged later in the plan period, in order to
maintain the self-financing ratio, and to offset the forecasted annual infla-
tion. Based on these objectives, projections show that average tariffs,
expressed in current prices, should be increased annually to reach about
D 0.225m3 in 1986. During negotiations SONEDE and the Government confirmed
that the Government had agreed in principle to revise tariffs on an annual
basis to meet the financial objectives. This, in fact, constitutes a
departure from previous practices where tariff adjustments took place at
almost three year intervals.
Financing Plan and Future Financial Performance
5.13     The following sets out SONEDE's estimated total funds requirements
for the period 1982-1986 and the sources from which they would be met. The
financing plan assumes that tariffs would be increased as mentioned in
para. 5.12.



- 27 -
Financing Plan (1982-1986)
D                US$              %
----- Millions ----
Requirements
Capital Investments                   264.6              529.2            99.5
Long Term Advances                      (2.9)             (5.8)           (1.1)
Increase in Working Capital             4.1                8.2             1.6
Total Requirements               265.8             531.6           100.0
Sources
Internal Cash Generation              134.0              268.0           50.4
Less: Debt Service                     69.0              138.0           26.0
Net Internal Cash Generation           65.0              130.0           24.4
Customers' Contributions               52.6              105.2            19.8
Total Self-Financing                  117.6              235.2           44.2
Proposed Bank Loan                     15.3               30.5             5.8
other Existing Long Term Loans         35.9               71.8           13.5
Expected Long Term Loans               51.3              102.7           19.3
Total Borrowings                      102.5              205.0           38.6
Government Equity                      45.7               91.4            17.2
Total Sources                         265.8              531.6          100.0
5.14      SONEDE's proposed financing plan for 1982-1986 which is based on a
self-financing ratio is adequately conceived, as almost 83% of its capital
requirements are to be fully supported by SONEDE through its net internal cash
generation (44% - including consumers' contributions), and borrowings (39%).
About 17% will be financed by Goverment equity. At this stage of SONEDE's
development, the proposed level of self-financing appears to be more than
adequate.
5.15     Other than the proposed Bank loan of US$ 30.5 million, the sources of
funds include borrowings of US$ 9.0 million, which are proceeds of the two
existing Bank loans (Loans 1445-TUN and 1702-TUN) to be used during the period
1982-1984.  Other long term borrowings would come from international lenders
under existing loans (US$ 62.7 million) and others which are currently being



- 28 -
considered and expected to be finalized soon (US$ 81.4 million). Borrowingo
include also about US$ 21.3 million expected to come from unidentified donors
and those relate to projecte expected to start in 1984. The Government con-
tribution of US$ 91.4 million while identical in current value to that of the
Fifth Plan (1977-1981) is smaller in real terme and represents about 17% of
SONEDE's total capital requirements, whereas for financing SONEDE'S Fifth Plan
it represented about 28% of total capital requirements. These contributions
represent less than the taxes and duties accruing to Government from water
sales, procurement and execution of the works under the Plan.
5.16     SONEDE's forecast financial statements from 1982 through 1987 are
given in Annexes 13, 14 and 15. The assumptions made in preparing these
statements are shown in Annex 16. SONEDE's financial performance is expected
to continue improving. With SONEDE's proposed objective to ensure a 20% self-
financing ratio, the rate of return on net fixed assets after deduction of
customers' contributions and estimated value of assets at rural centers of
less than 2,000 inhabitants (para 5.01), will average about 7.5% over the
period 1982-1986. The Company will maintain a debt:equity ratio of about
34:66 on the average and the current assets/liabilities ratio including short
term maturities of long and medium term debte will remain around 1.1. The
operating ratio would fluctuate slightly over the period, but would remain on
the average around 67%.
5.17     Internal cash generation should cover debt service adequately.  Debt
service coverage is projected not to fall below 1.7 times. Under the existing
Bank agreements SONEDE is committed not to incur any long term debt (except
for the projecte covered by the Agreements) without the Bank Group's concur-
rence, unlesa its net revenues at the time of incurrence of the debt, before
depreciation and interest are at least 1.5 times the maximum future annual
debt service on the proposed Loan and existing debts. During negotiations
agreement was reached to maintain the said committment in legal documents per-
taining to the subject loan.



- 29 -
VI. JUSTIFICATION
Least Cost Solution
6.01     The proposed Bank project covers a slice of SONEDE's investment pro-
gram for the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) and includes the house connec-
tions program and the activities in the rural areas for a three and a half
year period (1982-84). SONEDE's investment program aims at satisfying the
reasonable objectives the Government has set for the Sixth Plan period (see
para 1.15). The designs of the proposed systems included in the Plan, as well
as those included in the Bank project, are in accordance with sound engineer-
ing principles. The overall designs of the major projects, as well as the
adopted design criteria for future studies, were reviewed by the mission and
found acceptable. All projects represent least cost solutions based on dis-
count rates from 8% to 12% for providing an increased percentage of the
Tunisian population with safe water.
6.02     For sub-projects in the sector loan component SONEDE will carry out a
comparison of feasible alternatives to determine the least cost solutions in
each case. The calculation of the marginal cost of water and hence its eligi-
bility for financing under the Bank loan would be made for the least cost
alternative. Criteria used in the design of the sub-projects were reviewed by
the appraisal mission and found acceptable.
Institution Building
6.03     Although SONEDE has already proven to be a relatively efficient
organization, it will be further strengthened by the project, in particular
its financial aspect by the introduction of a new long term financial policy
based on a self-financing ratio for its investment programs.  This policy,
which is better understood by the Government than the former rate of return
objective, will enhance more frequent tariff adjustments to satisfy the new
objective, and at the same time assures a reasonable rate of return. The pro-
posed project will further strengthen SONEDE's capability to develop and
manage sector type loans.
Beneficiaries
6.04     The beneficiaries of the proposed project will be the 80,000 families
or nearly 480,000 people that, thanks to the project's bouse connection com-
ponent, will be able to obtain piped water supply in their dwellings. In
addition to this, about 150,000 people in the rural areas will, for the first
time, have access to safe potable water supply through public standpipes. All
of the beneficiaries of new house connections will be in the lower income
brackets, consuming less than 40 m3 water per quarter, while one-third of
them are estimated to be at or below the urban poverty threshold of D 121 per
person per year. In the rural project area all the rural poor, estimated at



- 30 -
15% of the rural population, and having revenues below the rural poverty
threshold of D 58 per person per year, will benefit from the project. The
above quoted poverty thresholds are in 1980 values.
Affordability
6.05     Water drawn at public standpipes is free to the consumer, the munici-
pality bearing the cost. Water drawn through private connections is to be
paid for, and consumers are invoiced quarterly by SONEDE. The average con-
sumption of the low income group, consuming less than 40 m3 per quarter is
18 m3 per quarter. The charge, together with meter rent, maintenance fees
and taxes amounts to D 2.840 per quarter in 1982. This is less than 2% of the
revenue of a family living at the urban poverty threshold, or the minimum pay
(SMIG), and is considered to be easily affordable. Low income consumers who
have obtained (or will obtain) a loan to pay for their water connection have
to pay in addition for the servicing of their loan, which will be about
D 6.430 per quarter. Their total monthly cost for water and connection
amounts to an average D 3.100 or about 4% of the revenue of those living at
the urban poverty threshold, which is still considered affordable.  Future
tariff adjustments will not change this picture as no increases in real terms
are expected.
Economic Justification
6.06     The overriding justification for the proposed Bank project, as well
as for SONEDE's five year investment program, is the universally recognized
fact that the provision of an adequate quantity of safe water is a basic
necessity for the maintenance of good health and productivity and for economic
development. The economic justification of the investments of the water
sector included in the Sixth Development Plan is indicated by the fact that
the highest bracket of the 1982 tariff would be nearly equal to the average
long run incremental cost of water based on a 10% opportunity cost of capital
which is considered adequate for Tunisia. This is reasonably efficient in
terms of cost recovery and resource allocations. Consumers using quantities
of water in excess of 70 m3 per quarter in this highest tariff bracket have
demonstrated their willingness to pay for the cost of providing additional
water at the 1981 water rates and are expected to continue to do so at the
projected rates.
Environmental and Health Aspects
6.07     Neither the proposed project, nor the totality of projects included
in SONEDE's Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) are expected to have an adverse
effect on the environment. All urban areas are partially sewered and the
recently established sewerage authority (ONAS) is working hard to catch up on
the backlog. By 1990 most of the urban dwellers will be connected to the



- 31 -
sewer system. Also by then, considerable progress is expected to be made in
the treatment of sewage before discharge. In the rural areas water consump-
tion and population density are so low that individual disposal systems, as in
use at the moment (septic tanks and seepage pits), will be more than adequate
to absorb the limited quantities of waste water. The general health situation
is expected to improve considerably, as people will no longer depend on pol-
luted sources for their drinking water, especially in rural areas where water-
borne diseases are endemic and mainly caused by contaminated water supplies.
Risks
6.08     The risk of not achieving the project objectives are small.  The
house connections component is an ongoing activity where SONEDE has great
experience, and the target of 35,000 new connections per year is considered
conservative. The sub-projects in the rural areas are generally small and
simple and SONEDE has demonstrated during the Fifth Water Supply Project that
it is capable of implementing this type of project. Equally, the risk of not
achieving the objectives of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) are low.
SONEDE bas the capability of implementing this Plan, as demonstrated by their
implementation of the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81), which is only about 8%
smaller in physical volume. The tariff increases are not expected to have a
significant influence on water consumption because of the low elasticity
between price and consumption, and because most of the increases will be
passed on to the more affluent population group, consuming more than 70 m3
per quarter at the highest tariff bracket.



- 32 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01 During negotiations, agreement was reached that:
(i)   SONEDE will continue to observe the covenant on audit as described in
the Loan Agreement, Section 5.02, for the Fifth Water Supply Pro-
ject. (3.08)
(ii)   SONEDE and the Government will continue to honor the covenant on
payments for water and related charges by Government agencies and
municipalities as described in the guarantee agreement, Section 3.02,
for the Fourth Water Supply Project. (3.09)
(iii)   SONEDE will follow the selection criteria as described in para. 4.12,
and prepare and forward to the Bank the feasibility studies and
appraisal reports as described in para. 4.13. (4.14)
(iv)   SONEDE's credit facilities for financing house connections will be
based on a redemption period of five years, and an interest rate
which will be the average between the rate for local medium term
credits available to SONEDE and the Bank rate. (4.15)
(v)   SONEDE will report quarterly to the Bank on the progress of the pro-
ject components and on the evolution of the relevant monitoring
indicators.  (4.26 (i))
(vi)   SONEDE will take any reasonable remedial action discussed with the
Bank, should this become desirable, for the proper execution of,the
project or the efficient management of the institution, or meeting
the targets as set by the monitoring indicators. (4.26 (ii))
(vii)   Within six months following the closing date of the loan, SONEDE will
prepare and submit to the Bank a completion report on the execution
and the initial operation of the project components, the costs and
the benefits derived or to be derived thereof, the performance and
the fulfilment by SONEDE of its obligations under the Loan Agree-
ment, and the accomplishment of the objectives of the Bank loan.
(4.27)
(viii)  SONEDE shall generate for each of its fiscal years, starting in 1982,
funds from internal sources, sufficient to cover, in addition to
operating expenses (excluding depreciation), debt service and
increase in working capital other than cash, not less than 20% of the
average estimated capital expenditures to be incurred during that
year and the two following fiscal years. This will replace the rate
of return covenant of previous agreements (Fourth and Fifth Water
Supply Projects, Loans 1445 and 1702-TUN) (5.10 and 5.10 (i))



- 33 -
(ix)   Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, starting in 1982,
SONEDE shall, on the basis of forecasts which are to be satisfactory
to the Bank, review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the require-
ment set forth in 7.01 (viii), and shall provide the Bank with a copy
of such a review report and the proposed rate adjustments.
(5.10 (ii))
(x)   SONEDE will not incur any long term debt (except for the projects
covered by the Agreements) without the Bank Group's concurrence,
unless its net revenues at the time of incurrence of the debt, before
depreciation and interest, are at least 1.5 times the maximum future
annual debt service on the proposed loan and existing debts. (5.17)
7.02     Agreement having been reached on the matters outlined above, the
proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 30.5 million to the
Société Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE), for a
term of 17 years including 4 years of grace.



TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MILLION                                                         POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
8 _                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOTA L POPU LAT ION 
7 _                                   /                        | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POPULA1 ION SERVED BY GENIE RUA
6
0      | ~DISPFRSED RURUPPLTO
AGGL-OMERATED
4               RLURAL POPULATION
3
2~~SM - RA   OUA  O                                                                       POPULATION SERVED BY SONEDE
2
URBAN POPULATION (>20,000)
1975                           1980                            1985                            1990                             1995                            2000
World Bank 23434



TUNI SIA
NATIONAL RURAL VIATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEDE's Sixth Development Plan (1982/1986)
Implementation Schedule
1981          1982           1983          1984          1985           1986          1987           1988           1990
ITEM                         Date  12                   2 3 4  2  41  4124123 4  342 41 2 
GREATER TUNIS
Water Production, lst Phase                                   W
WVater Production, 2nd Phiase              2000                                  ...          ........-
Water Distribution, lst Phase                                W              v                           _W
Water Distribution, 2nd Phase               1990               t       B     t      W
Upgradinc Southern Production System                      S..... .............        B                    W               I
Idern, 2nd Phase                          2000                                            .                                                                 SIr
Cap Bon                                     2000    ...... ...
Sahei, Supply from the North, lst Phase                          W
Idem                       2nd Phase       2000          B.                        w .  -        -
Central and Southern Sahel   lst Phase                  S                       B                  W
Idem                       2nd Phase       2000        S      . ..            B      __'W                       - 
Stax, Supply from the North                  2000              S             ,    B                              W
Sfax, Provisionai Supply                     1986    .       S . ..B .2             W -
Sfax, Distribution                           1990         S      .            L B .  _
Bîzerte, Supply from Joumîne                 2000   .           ..   B     _               W
Bizerte, Distribution                        1990             .....                                             -
Southern Tunisia                             1990       B             W
Fxtreme South                               2000                    .........            ......   .. L   .        L                            W_
Gabes, Industrial Zone                       1990              T
Ganeral Expansion Programr                                                                                        S + B + W
Ruiral Centers                                                                                                    S + B + W
Bank Project                                                                                       S  B + W
- Studies                                          Change of Activity
- Bîdding Procedure                     v        - Completion
W        _ Wo rk s                                                                                                     Worid Bank-23468



- 36 -                                                               ANNEX 3
Page 1
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEDE's Five-Year Investment Program
(in thousands of current Dinars)
(October 81)
C A T E C O R Y                                 1982         1983        1984        1985        1986        TOTAL
82-86
1. INVESTMENTS FOR RENEWALS AND UPGRADING ................... 8,000                   8,010       8,515       9,065       9,850      43,440
Acquisitions and Renewals .....                                       1,450       1,630        1,720       1,855       2,040       8,695
Upgrading ...........                               ,, ,   ,    ,550    530    565    600    650   2,895
Extensions ..............,... ...,...5,500                                        5,300       5,650        6,000       6,500      28,950
Water Meters .500   550   580   610   660  2,900
11. PROJECTS"   ..........................................   43,785                   57,645      52,060      37,970      40,245   231,705
Sfax Distribution (IDB) .1,500                                                    1,975        1,715           -            -      5,190
Sfax, new resources .......................... . ........... 1,000                6,630      11,500       10,000       9,870      39,000
lunis, Cap-Bon (4th P. IBRD) ..............                           4,300          965           -            -           -      5,265
Tunis Repartition ..............                                      1,400       2,100            -            -           -      3,500
Sahel, water from the North (SFD) ..............                     10,000      10,200       6,600            -            -     26,800
Industrial zone: Gabès (ADB) ..............                             675            -           -           -           -         675
Irîdustrial zone: Gabès (AFESD) ..............                          660          340           -           -           -       1,000
South Tunisia (KfW) ..............                                    5,700          250           -           -            -      5,950
Ghomrassen - Tataouine (KfW) ..............                             550          265           -           -            -        815
Bizerte, Joumine dai ..............                                   1,000       9,000       7,000       2,000          800      19,800
Soutn Bizerte (KfW) ..............                                      430          370           -           -            -        800
Extreme South, Prospection ..............                             2,000       1,300          400                       -       3,700
Rural centers (USAID 1st project) ...............               ,.   200               -           -           -           -         200
Extreme South, Studies and works               ...........   -                    1,000       1,000      10,000      15,000      27,000
Tunis Cap-Bon, Follow-up project .........................   -                         -           -           -       3,000       3,000
Tunis Repartition, Follow-up project .1,000                                       1,500       1,000        1,000         600       5,100
Cap Bon water production .100                                                          -         400   1,500   3,000   5,000
Renewal of southern production .100                                                    -         900       1,000           -       2,000
Central Sahel and Southern Sahel projects .100                                    2,420       6,390       2,920            -      11,830
Master Plans (ADB) ....................................... 1,000                  1,575          470         500           -       3,545
Master Plans (5th P. IBRD) ...                                        1,600       1,400            -           -           -       3,000
Centers to be imiproved (ADB) ............................. 1,000                 4,600       4,400            -           -      10,000
Kerkennah (Sth P. IBRD) ...                                           1,100          300           -           -           -    1,400
Master Plans (KfW) .......................................   500                  1,770       1,700            -           -       3,970
Centers to be improved (KfW) ...                                        -              -         730      1,070          850       2,650
Rural centers (bth P. IBRD) ...                                       1,360       2,000       2,000       1,000        1,000       7,360
Master Plans SONEDE .................................,.,.2,200                    1,500       1,500       2,000        1,500       8,700
Centers to be improved SONEDE ............................ 1,640                  1,000          745         400           -       3,785
Infrastructure ..................................,,.... 1,000                     2,000         850          580         920      5,350
Rural centers (KfW) ......................................   400                    400          180           -           -         980
Centers to be improved (6th IBRD) ........................ 1,270                  1,285       1,220          500         305      4,580
Rural centres SONEDE ...                                                -         1,500   1,360   3,500   3,500   9,860
TOTAL         51,785      65,655      60,575       47,035      50,095    275,145
*References in parentheses indicate source of international financing where available.



ANNEX  3
Page 2
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEDE's  Five-Year Investment Prograis
(in thousands of constant Dinars of March 1982))
C A T E G O  R Y                                    1982         1983         1984         1985         1986         TOTAL
82-86
I. INVESTMENTS FOR RENEWALS AND UPGRADINC ................... 7,842                         7,271        7,158         7,056        7,098      36,425
Acquisitions and Renewals ...............................  1,421                         1,480        1,446        1,444        1,470        7,261
Upgrading ...............................                                     539          481          475          467          468        2,430
Extensions ...............................                                 5,392        4,811        4,749         4,670        4,684      24,306
Water Meters ...............................                                  490          499          488          475          476        2,428
Il. PROJECTS* ...............................                                  42,918       52,331       43,758       29,558       29,073    197,638
Sfax Distribution  (IDB) ...............................                   1,470        1,793        1,442              -            -      4,705
Sfax, new resources ...............................                           980       6,019        9,666         7,783        7,112      31,560
Tanis, Cap-Bon  (4th P. IBRD) ............................. 4,216                          876             -            -            -       5,092
Tunis Repartition ....................................                     1,373        1,906              -            -            -       3,279
Sahel, water from the North (SFD) .......................  9,800                        9,259        5,547              -            -     24,606
Industrial zone: Gabès (ADB) .............................   662                             -            -             -            -         662
Industrial zone:  Gabès (AFESD) ...........................   647                          309            -             -            -         956
South Tunisia (KfW) ....................................   5,588                           227             -            -            -      5,815
Ghomrassen - Tataouine  (KfW) .............................   539                          241             -            -            -         780
Bizerte, Joumine dam ....................................                     980       8,170        5,884         1,557          577      17,168
South Bizerte  (KfW) ....................................                     422          336             -            -            -         758
Extreme South, Prospection ............................... 1,961                        1,180           336             -            -       3,477
Rural centers (USAID Ist project). .. 196                                                     -            -            -            -         196
Extreme South, Studies and works .........................                      -          908          841        7,780      10,809       20,338
Tunis Cap-Bon, Follow-up project .........................                      -             -            -            -       2,162        2,162
Tunis Repartition, Foilow-up project .....................   980                         1,362          841          778          432        4,393
Cap Bon water production .................................                     98             -         336        1,167        2,162        3,763
Renewal of southern production ...........................                     98             -         757          778             -       1,633
Central Sahel and Southern Sahel projects ................                     98       2,197         5,371        2,273             -       9,939
Master Plans (ADB) .......................................   980                         1,430          395          389             -       3,194
Master Plans  (Sth P. IBRD) ............................... 1,567                        1,271             -            -            -       2,838
Centers  to be improved  (ADB) .............................   980                      4,176        3,698              -            -       8,854
Kerkennah  (Sth P. IBRD) .................................. 1,078                          272             -            -            -       1,350
Master Plans (KfW) .......................................   490                         1,607        1,429             -            -       3,526
Centers to be improved  (KfW) .............................                     -             -         614          833          613        2,060
Rural centers (6th P. IBRD) .............................. 1,333                        1,816         1,681          788          721        6,339
Master Plans SONEDE ...................................... 2,157                         1,362        1,261        1,557        1,081        7,418
Centers  to be improved  SONEDE ........              ..................... 1,608          908          626          311             -       3,453
Infrastructure ...........................................   980                        1,816           714          451          663        4,624
Rural centers  (KfW) ......................................   392                          363          151             -            -         906
Centers to be improved  (6th IBRD) ........................ 1,245                        1,166        1,025          389          219        4,044
Rural centres SONEDE .....................................                       -       1,361        1,143        2,724        2,522        7,750
TOTAL          50,760       59,602       50,916        36,614       36,171    234,063
` Reterences  in parentheses  indicate  source of international  financing where available.



-38 -                                                             ANNEX 3
Page 3
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEDE's Five-Year Investment Program
(in thousands of current Dinars
as expected to be realized)
C A T E G O  R Y                                1982        1983         1984        1985        1986        TOTAL
82-86
1. INVESTMENTS FOR RENEWALS AND UPGRADING ................... 8,000                   8,010       8,515       9,065       9,850      43,440
Acquisitions and Renewals ...............................  1,450                  1,630       1,720        1,855       2,040       8,695
Upgrading ............... .              .,.,,,.   550                               530         565         600         650       2,895
Extensions .,                                                         5,500   5,300   5,650   6,000   6,500  28,950
Water Meters .500   550   580   610   666  2,900
II. PROJECTS* ............ , 39,403                                                  52,398       50,676      41,343      37,072    220,892
Sfax Di.tribut_cn (18) .1,326   1,432   1,547   1,034                                                                      -    5,339
Sfax, n w resources .................             ............... 1,000           6,059      10,113       8,994       9,714      35,880
Tunis, Cap-Bon (4th P. IBRD) ................... .......... 4,080                 1,203            -           -           -       5,283
Tunis Repartition .1,224   1,652    689                                                                        -           -   3,565
Sahel, water from the North (SFD) .9,180                                          9,914       7,859            -           -    26,953
Industrial zone; Gabès (ADB) .............................   675                       -           -           -           -         675
Industrial zone: Gabès (AFESD) .660                                                 340            -           -           -       1,000
South Tunisia (KfW) .5,100    900                                                                  -           -           -   6,000
Gnomrassen - Tataouine (KfW) .550                                                   265            -           -           -         815
Bizerte, Joumine dam .............................,.,.,.,. 918                    7,711       5,949       2,570       2,315      19,463
South Bizerte (KfW).,                                                   430    370                 -           -           -    800
Extreme South, Prospection ............................... 1,836                  1,102         805            -           -      3,743
Rural centers (USAID Ist projec) .200                                                  -           -           -           -         200
Extreme South, Studies and work .-                                                1,000       1,000       8,994      11,102      22,096
Tunis Cap-Bon, Follow-up project                                           -           -           -           -      2,775       2,775
Tunis Repartition, Follow-up project .                .          ... 1,000        1,500       1,000       1,000          600       5,100
Cap Bon water production .................................,             100            -        400       1,285       2,775       4,560
Renewal of southern product-ion .,                                      100            -        900       1,000            -      2,000
Central Sahel and Southern Sahel projects .100                                    2,203       5,949       3,650            -     11,902
Master Plans (ADB) .................... 1,000                                    1,575         470          500           -      3,545
Master Plans (5th P. IBR) .1,530   1,322                                                         164           -           -    3,016
Centers to be improved (AD) .1,000    3,856    3,569    1,765                                                              -   10,190
Kerkennah (5th P. IBR).                                               1,100    300                 -           -           -   1,400
Master Plans (KfW) .................................              ,     480       1,652       1,190         804            -      4,126
Centers to be improved (KfW) .-                                                        -        730   1,070              850    2,650
Rural centers (6th P. IBRD) .1,020                                                1,652       1,785       1,927       1,165       7,549
Master Plans SONEDE .1,530    1,652    1,785    1,927    1,968    8,862
Centers to be improved SONEDE .1,020                                              1,102       1,190         582            -      3,894
Infrastructure..., ................................,.,            .   918        1,102         838         643          694      4,195
Rural centers (KfW).                                                    306 .................  330  364        -           -       1,000
Centres to be improved (6th IBR) .1,020                                           1,102       1,190       1,028          339      4,679
Rural centers SONEDE .-   1,102   1,190   2,570   2,775   7,637
TOTAL         47,403      60,408      59,191       50,408      46,922    264,332
*References in parentheses indicate source of international financing where available.



-39-                                                                 ANNEX  3
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEDE's Five-Year Investment Program
(in thousands of constant Dinars of March 1982
as expected to be realized)
C A T E G O R Y                                  1982        1983         1984        1985        1986         TOTAL
82-8F,
I. INVESTMENTS FOR RENEWALS AND UPGRADING ................... 7,842                    7,271       7,158        7,056       7,098      36,425
Acquisitions and Renewals ...............................  1,421                   1,480        1,446       1,444       1,470        7,261
Upgrading ..............................................                 539          481         475         467          468       2,430
Extensions ...............                                    ,        5,392       4,811        4,749       4,670       4,684      24,306
Water Meters ...............                                             490          499         488         475          476   2,428
Il. PROJECTS* ...............                                             38.558       47,565      42,590      32,677       26,814    188,204
Sfax Distribution (IDB) ................, 1,300                                    1,300       1,300          805            -      4,705
Sfax, new resources ...............                                      980       5,500       8,500        7,000       7,000      28,980
Tunis, Cap-Bon (4th P. IBRD) ............................. 4,000                   1,092                         -           -      5,092
Tunis Repartition ..............................                       1,200       1,500          579           -            -      3,279
Sahel, water from the North (SFD) .......................  9,000                   9,000       6,606             -           -     24,606
Industrial zone: Gabès (ADB) .............................   662                        -           -           -            -         662
Industrial zone: Gabès (AFESD) ...........................   647                     309            -           -            -        956
South Tunisia (KfW) ...................................... 5,000                     815            -           -            -      5,815
Ghomrassen - Tataouine (KfW) .............................   539                     241            -            -           -         780
Bizerte, Joumiine dam .....................................   900                  7,000       5,000        2,500       1,768      17,168
South Bizerte (KfW) ......................................   422                     336            -           -            -         758
Extreme South, Prospection ............................... 1,800                   1,000          677                        -      3,477
Rural centers (USAID Ist project) ........................   196                        -           -           -            -         196
Extreme South, Studies and works .........................                 -         908          841       7,000       8,000      16,749
Tunis Cap-Bon, Follow-up project .........................                  -           -           -            -      2,000       2,000
Tunis Repartition, Follow-up project ........... ..........   980                  1,362          841         778         432       4,393
Cap Bon water production .................................    98                        -         336       1,000       2,000       3,434
Renewal of southern production ...........................    98                        -         757         778            -      1,633
Central Sahel and Southern Sahel projects ................    98                   2,000       5,000        2,841            -      9,939
Master Plans (ADB) .......................................   980                   1,430          395         389            -      3,194
Master Plans (Sth P. IBRD) ............................... 1,500                   1,200          138            -           -      2,838
Centers ta be improved (ADB) .............................   980                   3,500        3,000       1,374            -      8,854
Kerkennah (Sth P. IBRD) .................................. 1,078                      272           -            -           -      1,350
Master Plans (KfW) .......................................,              400       1,500        1,000         626            -       3,526
Centers to be improved (KfW) .............................                 -            -         614         833         613       2,060
Rural centers (6th P. IBRD) .............................. 1,000                   1,500       1,500        1,500         839       6,339
Master Plans SONEDE ....................................   1,500                   1,500        1,500       1,500       1,418       7,418
Centers to be improved SONEDE ............................ 1,000                   1,000        1,000         453            -      3,453
Infrastructure ..          ........... -- .........              ....   900        1,000          700         500         500       3,600
Rural centers (KfW .300   300   306                                                                              -           -    906
Centres to be improved (6th IBRD) .1,000   1,000   1,000                                                      800          244   4,044
Rural centers SONEDE .-   1,000   1,000   2,000   2,000   6,000
TOTAL         46,400       54,836      49,748      39,733       33,912    224,629
*References in parentheses indicate source of international financing when available.



TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Forecast Number of Connections
Number of Connections                      Repartition of Connections per Category   (Global)
Year
Urban       Rural       Total       Domestic     Industrial      Touristic     Public       Public
Fountains
1975      166,559       75,707      242,266      226,401        1,985           437        10,833        1,740
1976      185,511       91,597      281,108      264,303        2,201           468        11,564        1,604
1977     209,264       106,484      315,748     298,168         2,352           459        12,234        1,506
1978     229,356       119,863      349,219      331,109        2,493           470        12,777        1,403
1979     251,685       132,327      384,012      365,210        2,597           483        13,425        1,382           o
1980     283,464       139,404      422,868     403,455         2,702           489        13,984        1,307
1981      312,000      153,000      465,000     445,082         2,809           496        14,321        1,290
1982      332,000      168,000      500,000     479,223         2,917           503        14,953        1,202
1983      357,000      183,000      535,000      513,328        3,012           517        15,964        1,129
1984      380,000      195,000      570,000      546,850        3,165           529        17,048        1,100
1985     400,000       210,000      605,000     579,658         3,252           538        18,193        1,064
1986     423,000       222,000      640,000      614,018        3,401           549        19,421        1,011
1987     448,000       232,000      680,000     652,473         3,529           561        20,751          983
1988     474,000       247,000      721,000     691,530         3,632           576        22,447          976
1989      501,000      259,000      760,000      729,250        3,743           590        23,639          969
1990      529,000      270,000      799,000      765,623        3,875           606        25,235          956
1995      699,000      340,000    1,039,000     995,036         4,321           679        35,229          832
2000      849,000      425,000    1,274,000   1,215,284         4,982           732        48,532          765           >4



AN',N x 
TUN ISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REPARTITION OF WATER CONSUMPTION
WATER CONSUMED
100
90
80
70
60
DIAGONAL OF EQUAL REPARTITION
50
40
30                                            DOMESTIC USE
20
10                                                                 ALL USES
10      20       30      40       50       60       70      80       90      100%
CONSUM ERS
Worid Bank - 23435



'tSNISi A
NA I)ONAI. RURAL WAIER SUPPI.Y PRO.JE(`'T
ForeCrst Water PrfDcltCtioll and C(onsnumptlon
Water lProductioio                       Water CoIlsimpt ion                          Repurtition of the consomption per cat egorv
LJrbal         Ru ral         Total           UrbaLn          Rural      ToDtasl UElficiency  Dome stic   Industrial   'oIl ristic   Public        Pub lni c
----…-------…  tru /yr -----------        ------------1()3/y…yr-------------         %        ------------------103m3/yr ---------          -        - --- - - ---
1975       lot,919(1      2S,307         141,997         75,374           17,102      93,47(6    66        44,256         11,S94       6,80 9      22,127       5,483
19/n      118,029         2 ,'426        145,455         79 ,52           18,(094     97,746    64         46,309         13,437       6,999       22,732       4,863
IY77       i27, 52,+      30,778          158,302        88,900           20,927     109,827    65         54,329         15,662       7,324       25,584       4,510
'978      1 31 ,92'9      3b ,727        1t97, t56       92,37 5         23,294      115,699    69         58,334         16,329       7,614       26,869       4,073
l979       139,595        40,554          1 7,05 9       97,214           25,750     122,964    70         62,994         17,753       8,311       27,381        ,120)           4
19`8      146,415         46,429         192,844        104,619J          28,074     132,693    69         68,170         21,439       8,7741      28,124       4,223
1981       150,200        50,100         20(0,300       111,419           28,581     140,000    7(1        70,753         23,600       9,200       31,280       4,140
1982       157,2()0       53,40()        210,60)0       118,100           31,400     149,500    71         73,369         27,300      10,100       33,600       4,020
1983      lb6,600         55,100         221,70()       125,190           34,410     159,600    72         78,902         31,200      11,200       37,200       3,970)
I984      175,500         57,90(1        233,400        132,700           37,700     1-) (,400    73       80,110         33,600      12,500       38,400       3,890
1985       187,400        61,800         249,200        140,660          41,240      181,900    73         83,589         36,900      14,200       41,600       3,8s(
198t      202,800         b6,900         269,700)       148,68(0         45,520      194,200    72         86,340         42,100      15,300      44,9(00       3,760
1987      208,000         58,600         276,601)       157,150           50,250     207,400     75        90,329        46,200       17,000      48,150        3,71(1
1988      228,050         75,200         303,250        166,110           58,290    224,400    74          97,368         51,300      18,300       51,960       3,650
1989      24,15L0         79,20U         319,350        175,580           60,720     236,300     74       102,259         54,000      19,700       54,720       3,600
1990      253,000         83,400         336,400        185,590          b6,710    252,300    75          108,530         58,600      21,000       58,520       3,540
199S      341,8()0       112,800         454,600        242,559          107,441     350,000    77        159,221         75,000      27,200       81,00(1      3,36()
20U(      456,O1)        150,500         606,600        309,574          175,726    485,300    80         238,783         93,000      34,000      112,200       3,120           >



TIlNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SIJPPLY PROJECT
Annual Project Investments
D millions - base March 1982
--------1982---------  --------1983---------  --------1984---------  --------1985---------  --------TOTAL--------
Local Foreigo  Total  Local  Foreign    Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Rural centers                                0.44    0.48    0.92   0.90    0.97    1.87   0.90    0.97        1.87   0.76    0.81     1.57   2.99    3.24    6.23
Physlcal contingencies I54                   0.07    0.07    0.14   0.13    0.15    0. 28   0.13    0.15    0.28   0.11    0.12    0.23   0.45    0.48    0.93
buo-iotal                                 0.51    0.55    1.()6   1.03    1.12    2.15   1.03    1.12    2.15   0.87    0.93    1.80   3.44    3.72    7.16
semi-urbarn centers                          0.68    (.73    1.41   0.78    0.85    1.63   0.78    0.85        1.63   0.36    0.40    0.76   2.61    2.82       5.43
Pnysical contingencies 15%                   0.10    0.11    0.21   0.12    0.13    0.25   0.12    0.13    0.25   0.06    0.06    0.12   0.39    0.44    0.83
suD-Yotaî                                  0.78    0.S4    1.62   0.90    (.98    1.88   0.90    0.98    1.88   0.42    0.46    0.88   3.00    3.26    6.26
,til centers                                 1.12    1.21    2.33   1.67    1.83    3.50   1.67    1.83    3.50   1.12    1.21    2.33   5.60    6.06   11.66
Plhysical contingencies 157.                 0.17    0.18    U.35   0.26    0.27    0.53   0.26    0.27    0.53   0.17    0.18    0.35   0.84    0.92           1.76
Sub-Tota1                                  1.29    1.39    2.68   1.93    2.10    4.03   1.93    2.10    4.03   1.29    1.39    2.68   6.44    6.98   13.42
Price contingencies                         0.03    0.03    0.06   0).19    0.21    0.40   0.37    0.39    0.76   0.36    0.39    0.75   0.95    1.02    1.97
LO'T'AL CENTLRS                            1.32    1.42    2.74   2.12    2.31    4.43   2.30    2.49    4.79   1.65    1.78    3.43   7.39    8.00   15.39
hnginieeriisg                                0.14    -       0.14   0.20    -         0.20   0.20    -        0.20)  0.14    -         0.14   0.68    -         0.68
Price contingenicies                                 -        -      0.02     -       0.02   0.04    -        0.04   0.03    -         0.03   0.09    -         0.09
'L'TAI ENGINEERING                        0.14    -        0.14   0.22    -        0.22   0.24    -        0.24   0.17    -         0.17   0.77    -         0.77
T'OTAL CLNTERS & ENGINEERING               1.46    1.42    2.88   2.34    2.31    4.65   2.54    2.49    5.03   1.82    1.78    3.60   8.16    8.00   16.16
Water meters                                 0.19    0.30    0.49   0.19    0.30    0.49   0.19    0.30    0.49   -           -               0.56    0.91      1.47
('rice contingenicies                        0.00    0.01    ().01   0.02    0.03    0.05   0.03    0.06    0.09   -           -       -      0.06    0.09    0.15
'IOIAL WATEK METERS (bio Bank tinancing)   0.19    0.31    0.50   0.21    0.33    0.54   0.22    0.36    0.58   -            -       -       0.62    1.00     1.62
nouse conitiections                          1.85    1.85    3.70   1.99    1.99    3.98   2.16    2.16    4.32   1.00    1.0O    2.00   7.00    7.0n   14.0(1
TOTAL PKOJECT COST                         3.50    3.58    7..08   4.54    4.63    9.17   4.92    5.01    9.93   2.82    2.78    5.60  15.78   16.00   31.78
Front end tee                                -       0.25    0.25   -        -        -      -        -       -       -       -        -       -       0.25    <).21
Required  iilancing                          3.50    3.83    7.33   4.54    4.63    9.17   4.92    5.01    9.93   2.82    2.78    5.60  15 78   16.25    32.03



ANNEX 8
- 44 -                             Page 1
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selection Criteria for Rural Water Supply Projects
1.       The proposed Bank project includes the upgrading and expansion of
existing rural water supply systems and the construction of new rural water
supply systems, covering a three year slice of SONEDE's Sixth Development Plan
for the five year period 1982-86. In order to maximize the benefits of the
project, only carefully selected centers will be eligible for Bank financing.
The selection method is based on five criteria:
(i)    the marginal cost of water for the village under consideration has to
be less than US$ 1.50 equivalent per m3 in 1981 values;
(ii)    the total estimated sub-project cost per village should not exceed
the US$ 1.5 million equivalent in 1981 values;
(iii)   the proposed sub-project should be the "least cost solution" based on
the life cycle of the project;
(iv)    sufficient water resources to satisfy the demand for the life cycle
of the sub-project should be identified;
(v)    local cost financing should be secured through inscription of the
project in SONEDE's approved investment budget.
2.       The marginal cost as mentioned in criterium (i) will be the average
incremental cost (AIC) of water and is based on the economic cost of supplying
additional water to meet the growth of the demand over the next 5 to 10
years. The AIC is used as an approximation of the long run incremental cost.
The AIC is calculated by dividing the present value of all incremental capi-
tal, operating and other costs, in economic terms, by the present value of the
incremental consumption, made possible by the added facilities. The present
value for both numerator and denominator will be determined, using the oppor-
tunity cost of capital at a discount rate of 10%. AIC is defined as:



- 45 -                               ANNEX 8
Page 2
N
Cn     -      S
AIC =              0      (T+r '        (l+r)Y
N
iE      Qn
o     (I+r)n
Cn   incremental expenditure in year(n) for capital, operation, main-
tenance, etc., in economic terms, i.e. excluding taxes and customs
duties estimated at 20%.
S = salvage value.
Qn = incremental volume of water consumed in year(n) as a result of the
project.
N = lifespan of project = 40 years.
r = the opportunity cost of capital discount rate of 10%.
n = runs from O to N.



- 46 -                             ANNEX 9
Pag< 1
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Outline for Sub-Project Appraisal Reports
1.       For each sub-project SONEDE will prepare an appraisal report which
will cover the following aspects:
-    The physical and economic characteristics of the center or rural
village where the sub-project will be implemented, the populations
recorded in past censuses and the forecast of future populations in
the sub-project area.
-    The condition of the existing water supply facilities, the estimation
of per capita consumption, water consumed and number of connections
in previous years, and the quality of the services.
-    The volumes of water consumed for various types of usage (domestic,
industrial, commercial, public, tourism), a comparison of these
volumes with similar ones in other parts of the country.
-    The determination of the maximum day demand and the maximum hour con-
sumption.
-    An estimate of the volume of water unaccounted for in the trans-
mission pipelines and the distribution network, the proposed measures
to reduce water losses and any consumption judged to be excessive.
-    The forecast of future consumption and number of connections; the
evaluation of the percentage of population served per house connec-
tion and per public standpipe.
-    The conditions of the production facilities, the physical, chemical
and biologic characteristics of the waters, the future demands that
can be covered by the existing resources and the measures required to
meet the demand in the year 2000.
-    Discussion of the feasible alternatives to supply the sub-project
area with water, and ways of improving and expanding the distribution
network.



ANNEX 9
- 417 -
Page 2
Calculation of the estimated costs of the selected alternatives, and
economic comparison of these alternatives.
Selection and justification of the proposed scheme, preparation of
detailed cost estimates and programmation of the investments.
Calculation of future operating expenses, including depreciation of
fixed assets and interest payment on debts, evaluation of staff
needs, management system and relations with regional offices and
headquarterse
-    Forecast of water sales, related revenues and other revenues.
-    Calculation of the marginal cost of water for the sub-project.
-    Comparison of the sub-project data with the selection criteria.
-    Conclusions and recommendations.
2.       For any sub-project whose investment cost is estimated to exceed
US$ 1 million, or not meeting one or more of the other selection criteria,
SONEDE will submit this appraisal report together with any existing feasi-
bility report on the sub-project, and an additional justification to the Bank
for ex ante review and the Bank's approval to have the sub-project included in
the Bank project for financing.
3.       For sub-projects meeting all selection criteria, the appraisal report
will be forwarded to the Bank before bids are invited for ex post review.



sfATEMENF OF ALLOCATkD CREDIIS FOR HOL'SE _ONNECTIONS
LOAN _____           ID                                                                                                        Date
PbRIOD FROM _       ro_      _                                                                                                 Request No
No  ol   Lt.catLon    (redit Allocated    Out of which for    Out of whlicth for    Materials    Payroll    Overhead    Taxes    RFMARKs
Lonsullmer  (DLstrict)    (Amouat in D)         Gonnection (D)       Cootribution  to         (D)          (D)            D)(D)
uont rud.t                                                           Extension of Dis-
tribution System
(D)
~~~~~__ _______    __ _ __  .  ___ _                         .             )
tUlaL D)                             Eligible for Bank financLng 50% = D
We hereby certity that the above mentioned loans have been accorded for the proper execution of the Project activities with the terms
and conultions contained in Loan Agreement             TUN   All the authenticatîng details related to the expendîtures incurred, together
wtth suppurting documnentation, are avaitable for review at
(Name of accounting or other department where the supporting documentation
is filed)
No reimbursement of taxes under Bank loan
o
Representative Of              .       ..                                                         Authorized Representative..........C



TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
Indicators                                     1980       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985        1986       1987
1. STAFFING
T`otal staff                               3749       3839      3916       3994        4074       4156       4239       4323
Staff per 1,000 connections                8.9        8.3        7.8        7.5         7.1        6.7        6.6        6.4
2. SYSTEM OPERATIONS
Water produced  10  m3/year             192.8      200.3    210.6       221.7        233.4      249.2      269.7      276.6
Water sold, lOU  m3/year                  132.7      140.0    149.5       159.6       170.4      181.9      194.2       207.4
Unaccounted-for water, %                  31.0       30.0      29.0       28.0         27.0       27.0       26.0       25.0
Number of Connections, 103               423        465       500        535          570        605        640        680
3. FINANCE
Rate of Return f                           8.1         3.6       8.5        8.0         7.2        6.7         7.0        7.1
Operating ratio, E!I/                        76         85        67         66          66         68          67         67
Debt equity ratio                        26:74      34:66    34:66       35:65        36:64      34:66      32:68       31:69
Debt service coverage                       3.2        1.7       2.3        2.0         1.9        1.9         1.8        1.7
Average revenue in D per m3 produced    0.133          0.126    0.172       0.186       0.199      0.219       0.218      0.230
Operating expenses in D per m3 sold         0.148      0.154    0.161       0.170       0.181      0.192       0.198      0.204
Average rate in D per m3 sold               0.118      0.120    0.175       0.191       0.205      0.215       0.225      0.236
Collection period (Day)2/                    65         70        55         55          55         55          55         55
Self-financing ratio:
(a) through net internal generation E    31             (4)       24         21          20         25          28         29
(b) consumer contribution %                  13         il        15         13          14         28          34         36
(c) total 2                                 44           7        39         34          34         53          62         65
1/ Total operating expenses divided by total revenues x 100.
2/ Accounts receivable at a given date divided by daily average of billing in preceding year.
This checkîng will take place on June 30 and December 31 every year for each category of
consumers.  Results of this checking would be sent to the Bank within one month following
aforementioned dates at tne latest.



TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTIONDES EAUX -SONEDE
ORGANIZATION CHART - 1981
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MA E
7            I ~~~ORGANIZATION|
OPERAT IONA L
CONTRO L
IOPERATION                                               FINAC AND                   ENGINEERING              IIOFERATIONI
GRA T1    NEW WORKS I|ADMINISTRATION ITDE                                                                                   INTERIOR
PRODUCTION |DISTRIBUTION            PROGRAMMIN        FINANCE            A DMNSRAON                            NORTHERN            CENTRAL           SOUTHERN 
REPAIRS AND                                                    LEALSRVRKDSTIUTO
MAINTENANCE           S                                4 A        A                           | DISTRIBUTION L     PRODUCTION      |PRODUCTIONr
NORTHERN      CUSTOMERS                                                                     SATTKS1SI COST    REPAIRS AND       REPAIRS ANDI S             I
TRUNKLINES       METERS              SECTIONS 13I  ACCOUNTINC                                                 MAINTENANCE       MAINTENANCE       DISTRIBuTIoN
SOUTHERN        DISTRICT             WORKSN IEPIRSAN
TRUNKLINES     SECTIONS 6)           SECTONS 3       TREASURY                               HYDROLOGY         PROCUREMENT       PROCUREMENT       RMAINTENANCE
I  UORKS IV  II    DATA    LIDSRC      
7    SECTION (31 I I PROCESSING r                                     } SECTIONS 17) r   I DISTRIBUTION      PROCUREMENT
ITUD ES   L   |DISTRICT             DISTRICT
I  IT. I   IS  ISECTIONS (5)      SECTIONS (6)
STUDIES           STUDIES                FI
De.e be, 1981                                                                                                                                                    3
Wo,ld Ba.k 23433



-51 -                                                            ANNEX 13
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEDE - Income Statements - Actual  1/ (1978 - 1981) and Projected (1982 - 1987)
(D Thousands)
Fiscal Year Ending                                ----------- ACTUAL 1/ -------------           ------------------------ PROJECTED ------------------------
December 31                                    1978       1979       1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986        1987
Water Sold (Million m3)                           115.7     122.9      132.5       140.0       147.7       159.0       169.8       180.4       190.8       201.3
Number of Connections at year end ('000s)        349.2      384.0      422.9       465.0       500.0       535.0       570.0       605.0       640.0       675.0
Average Tarirf (D/m3)                            0.088      0.120      0.118       0.120       0.183       0.183       0.220       0.220       0.245       0.245
Operating Revenues
Water Sales                                  10,039    14,762    15,580        16,800      27,029      29,097      37,356      39,688     46,746      49,319
Meter Rental & Maintenance                    1,246      2,273      2,621       2,874       3,266       3,504       3,741      3,977       4,214       4,464
New Connection Charges                        3,328      3,295      4,121       2,724       2,745      2,930       3,127       3,339       3,567       3,810
Water Sales Taxes 6 Others                      788      1,041      1,162       1,472       2,064      2,212       2,631       2,803       3,189       3,432
Miscellaneous                                 1,458      1,807      2,498       1,732       1,967      2,113       2,280       2,513       2,798       3,019
Les6: Bad Debt Provision                       (593)      (374)      (350)       (300)       (400)      (450)       (560)       (595)       (700)       (740)
Total Revenues                            16,266    22,804    25,632       25,302      36,671      39,406      48,575      51,725      59,814      63,304
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                     5,750      6,682      8,308      9,350       10,580     11,670      12,860      14,180      15,640      17,238
Fuels                                         1,002      1,160      1,522       1,600       1,820      2,069       2,354       2,677       3,045       3,464
Chemicals                                       461        487        695         620         709        812         934       1,078       1,230       1,402
Materials                                     3,163      4,102      5,057       5,101      5,910       6,333       6,795       7,294       7,838       8,419
Water Sales Taxes 6 Others                      935      1,245      1,519       1,743      2,364       2,529       2,966       3,157       3,561       3,739
Water PFrchases                                  63         78         86          80         40         -           -           -           -           -
Admainistrative Expenses 6 Others             1,868      1,994      3,139       1,889       1,951      2,106       2,273       2,457       2,652       2,913
Less: Capital Expenses                       (5,597)   (6,191)   (6,595)    (5,176)    (6,940)    (7,473)    (7,934)    (8,436)    (9,106)    (9,829)
Sub-Total                                     7,645      9,557    13,731      15,207      16,434      18,046      20,248      22,407      24,860      27,346
Depreciation                                  3,614      4,710      5,830      6,309       7,917       9,601      11,619      13,708      14,922      16,224
Total Operating Expenses                  11,259    14,267    19,561       21,516      24,351      27,647      31,867      36,115      39,782     43,570
Net Operating Income                          5,007      8,537      6,071       3,786     12,320      11,759      16,708      15,610      20,032      19,734
Incerest                                      1,965      2,608      2,772      4,108       5,154       6,139       7,289       8,291       8,442       8,802
Net Operating Income before Taxes             3,042      5,929      3,299        (322)      7,166      5,620       9,419       7,319      11590       10,932
Net Income                                 3,042      5,929     3,299        (322)      7,166       5,620       8,585       6,432      10,651      10,932
Operating Ratio                                  69         63         76          85          66          70          66         70          67          69
Rate of Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets                     7.7       10.9        6.9         3.4         8.4         6.5         7.5        6.1          7.3        6.6
Average Net Fixed Assets in Service 2/        65.90      78.35      88.55      111.40      145.95     181.65      224.00      256.75      275.85      298.75
1/ 1981 results are prelirninary.
2/ After deduction of custoners' contributions and assets in rural centers nf less than 2000 inhbitants.



- 52 -
ANNEX 14
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEDE - Table of Sources and Uses of Funds - Actual (1979 - 1980) and Projected 11981 - 1987)
(D Thousands)
------------ ACTUAL 1/ ------------           ------------------------ PROJECTED ------------------------
1978       1979       198o        1981        1982         1983        1984        1985        1986        1987
I. Uses ot Funds
Capital Investments (5)                              20,120    27,287    41,322        53,704      47,653       60,408      59,191      50,408      46,922       62,100
lncrease (Decrease) in Long-Term Advances (5)    1,869           1,029        853        (328)       (976)    (1,136)         (806)        (54)         115         509
Increase (Decrease) in workiig Capital
other than Cash (4)        1,879    (2,381)   (4,830)         6,659          39         (951)      1,121       1,922       1,436      (2,562)
Debt Service;
intorest charged ta Operations                    1,965       2,608      2,773       4,108       5,154       6,139        7,289       8,291       8,442       8,802
A.ortisation of Loans                                780      1,158        950       1,757       3,560         ,83        6,904       7,336      10,044       12,653
Total Debt Service (4)                        2,745      3,766      3,723        5,865       8,714      11,992      14,193       15,627      18,486      21,455
Total Uses of Funds                              26,613    29,701    41,068         65,900      55,430       70,313      73,699      67,903      66,959      81,502
11. Sources of Funds
Operatihg Income before Depreciation (4)              8,621     13,247     11,901      10,095       19,858      23,617      27,148      30,061       33,268      36,764
Borrowings:
IBRD/IDA                                          2,490         659      4,246       9,490       3,060       1,370           90         -           -           -
Other Loans - Kaisting                               550      1,960      8,894      18,162      11,760       10,260       7,270       1,570         470          -
Proposed Bank Lboa                                   -          -          -           -         1,980       4,810        4,880       2,980         600          -
Other Loans - Proposed                               -          -          -           -         1,500       11,000      13,200       9,100       6,700       6,600
Other Loans - Usidentified                           -          -          -           -           -                      1,400       3,100       5,400      14,000
Total Long Term Loans                         3,040      2,619     13,140      27,652       18,300      27,440      26,840      16,750       13,170      20,600
Medise  Ter-  Laoas                                1,980        -          -        10,000-                                                         -          -
Total Borrowings                                   5,020      2,619     13,140      37,652      18,300      27,440       26,840      16,750      13,170      20,600
Customer Contributions                                7,457      8,433      5,589       6,200       6,820        7,670       8,170      14,000       15,900     22,500
GCoverncent Contributions                             5,900      5,000     10,000      12,000       10,500      11,600      11,600       7,200       4,800        1,700
Total Sources of Fonds                           26,998    29,299    40,630         65,947      55,478      70,327       73,758      68,011      67,138      81,564
Cash Increase (Decrease) for Year                       385       (402)      (438)         47           48          14          59          108         179          62
Cash at Beginning of Year                             1,222      1,607      1,205         767         814          862         876         935       1,043        1,222
Cash at End of Year                                   1,607      1,205        767         814         862          876         935       1,043       1,222       1,284
De-t Service Coverage (tines)                           3.1        3.5        3.2         1.7          2.3         2.0         1.9         1.9          1.8         1,7
IDternal Financing ai Investments 2/                     18         42         31          (4)          24          21          20          25          28          29
1/ 1981 Results are preliminary
2/ Lines (4) as percentage of lines (5)



ANNEX 15
- 53 -
TUNI SIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEDE - Salance Sheets - Actuel (1978 - 1981) and Projected (1982 - 1987)
(D Thousands)
Fiscal Yer Ending                   ----------------- ACTUAL 1/ ---------------            ----------------------------- PROJECTED… -----------------------------
Deceamber 31                     1978         1979          1980          1981          1982          1983          1984         1985          1986          1987
ASSETS
F-xed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets            128,334      150,776       169,767       218,471       264,874       319,739       384,909      428,547       472,337       532,437
Les-: Accu.ulated
Depreciation        38,778       43,987        49,685        55,994        63,911        73,512        85,131        98,839       113,761      129,985
Net Fixed Assets           89,556       106,789       120,082       162,477      200,963       246,227       299,778       329,708       358,576       402,452
Work in Progress              25,627        31,419        53,550        58,550        59,800       65,343         59,364       66,134        69,266        71,266
Total Fixed Assets        115,183       138,208       173,632       221,027      260,763       311,570       359,142       395,842       427,842       473,718
Long-Ter= Advances             11,598       12,147        12,700        11,102        10,126         8,990        8,184         8,130         8,245         8,754
Sab-Total                 126,781       150,355       186,332       232,129      270,889       320,560       367,326       403,972       436,087      482,472
Current Assets
Cash and Equivalent             1,607        1,205           767           814           862           876          935         1,043         1,222         1,284
Receivables                    3,804         4,909         6,302         7,200         7,560        8,535         9,395        10,597        11,546        12,570
Otùer Debit Accounts           9,487        15,411        17,698        19,270        19,158       19,523        19,016        18,298        18,405        18,629
Stocks                         3,1           2,520         2,663         3,100         2,990        3,240         3,510         3,810         4,100         4,500
Total Current Assets           18,035       24,045        27,430        30,384        30,570       32,174        32,856        33,748        35,273        36,983
TOTAL ASSETS              144.86        174,400       213,762       262,513      301,459       352,734       400,182       437,720       471,360       519,455
EQOUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Gocernne.t Contributi.o.      37,449        47,449        57,449        69,449        79,949       91,549       103,149       110,349       115,149       116,849
Cuato-sers Contributions      23,961        32,394        37,983        44,183       51,003        58,673        66,843        80,843        96,743       119,243
Earned Surplus                31,265        37,533        40,964        40,642       47,429        55,306        63,546        71,608        81,512        93,250
Total Equity               92,675       117,376       136,396       154,274      178,381       205,528       233,538       262,800       293,404      329,342
Long Terrs Debt
Previous IBRD/IDA Lending    17,882         17,826        20,680        28,870        30,466       29,518        27,248        24,838        22,383        19,909
Proposed IBRD Loan                -            -             -             -           1,980        6,790        11,670        14,070        13,510        12,350
Other Existing Loans           12,908       14,396        22,922        40,379        49,178        56,280       60,057        57,111        53,061        48,541
Other Proposed Loans              -            -             -             -           1,500        11,700       24,900        32,835        36,945        37,855
Unidentified Loans.-                                         -                           -             800        2,200         5,300        10,200        26.800
Total Long Ters Debt       30,790        32,222        43,602        69,249       83,124       105,088       126,075       134,154       136,099       145,455
Mediom Tera Debts              _6,084        5,251         3,968         8,572         7,144         5,716        4,288         2,860         1,432           -
Total Long b Mediur
Tersa Debts      36,874       37,473        47,570        77,821        90,268       110,804       130,363      137,014       137,531       145,455
C-rrent Liatilities
Castoner. Deposits              1,318        1,317         1,555         1,715         1,957        2,198         2,480         2,762         3,102         3,442
Contracts Retention            2,285         2,816         4,221         3,630         3,200        4,100         3,950         3,400         3,170         4,190
Sappliers                      2,230         5,585        10,634         9,980        9,100        11,300        11,270         9,900         9,500        12,150
Accaunts Payable                8,389        8,759        11,502        11,533        12,700        10,900       11,300        11,800        12,000        12,200
Carrent Maturities of
Long b Mediurn Tersa Debt      1,045        1,074         1,884         3,560         5,853        6,904         7,281        10,044        12,653        12,676
Total Carrent
Liabilities          15,267        19,551       29,796        30,418        32,810        36,402        36,281        37,906       40,425        44,658
TOTAL EQUITY AND
LIABEILTIES        144,816       174,400      213,762       262,513       301,459       352,734       400,182      437,720       471,360       519,455
Debt Equity Ratio              28:72         24:76         26:74         34:66         34:66         35:65        36:64         34:66         32:68         31:69
1/ 1981 Resalts are prelisainary.



- 54 -                          ANNEX 16
Page L
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Projections of Water Sales
1.        Future water sales were estimated on the basis of analysis of past
and current consumption in the largest metropolitan area of Tunis, and in the
remainder of the country for major consumers' categorles. Projection of
future consumption was based on this analysis and on population growth, source
levels and unît consumption. It is estimated that SONEDE should execute
annually about 35,000 house connections to achieve the projected sales.
Revenues
2.        Based on the approved tarîff increases for 1982, the proposed
financial objectives and financing plans for the period 1982-1986  the average
tariff is projected to increase from its 1981 level of 0.120 D/m as
follows;
Year                              1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Average Tariff (D/m3)           0.175   0.191   0.205    0.215  0.225   0.236
Income Statement
3. The following summarizes the assumption for items of the Income Statement
Projections, other than water sales.
(î)   Meter Rentals and Maintenance:  Included hereunder are meter
rentals and maintenance charges levied on all connections.
The average fee incudes a D 3.860 for meter rental and
D 2.900 for maintenance, plus a service tax of 7.52%. The
fee is calculated on the mid-year average number of
connections.
(ii)   New Connections.  Connections are the property of the
customers. They are installed by SONEDE and their cost is
billed to the customers. The 1981 average cost of a
connection of D 95 is based on available data for materials
used and time of manpower needed to install it, plus overhead
expenses amounting to 15% of the total cost. A service tax
of 7.52% is levied on the labour and overhead expenses for a
connection. Annual increase in cost starting from 1982
includes 8% on the cost of materials and 5% on the cost of
labor.



ANNEX 16
- 55 -                          Page 2
(iii)   Water Sales Taxes and Other:  Calculated in detail.  They
include taxes on water sales (4.3%) and are shown as a
revenue and expense.
(iv)   Miscellaneous:  Includes other revenues and interest on
credit facilities accorded to customers for house
connections. Interest is calculated on credits for repayment
in five years at a rate of 10% per annum.
Operating Expenses
(a)     Personnel:  Personnel expenses are projected to increase by
an annual average of 8% to cover expected increases in
staffing, normal salary increases and adjustments for
inflation.
(b)     Fuels:  Vehicle fuel is projected to increase in quantity by
3% per year and power consumption for pumping by 6% per year
over 1981 levels. Prices are forecast to increase annually
by 8%.
(c)     Chemicals:  Quantities of chemicals are projected to
increase, on the basis of evolution of production, by 6% per
year. Prices are forecast to increase at 8% annually.
(d)     Materials:  Quantities are based on estimated number of new
connections (35,000 a year), lengths of main extensions and
current maintenance programs (350 km/year). The average cost
(in 1981 prices) of materials for house connections is
estimated to be D 37.0 and that for an extension at D 5.500
per meter unit costs are projected to increase to 8% per year.
(e)     Administrative Expenese and Others:  Calculated according to
their nature and are projected with provision of cost
increase of about 8% per year.
(f)     Taxes:  Calculated according to their nature: a tax of 4.3%
is levied on water sales and 7.52% on services rendered.
(g)     Capital Expanses:  This represents the cost of extensions
(material, labor, overhead and taxes) included in the
foregoing items which are constructed by SONEDE and
transferred to assets.
(h)     Depreciation:  Calculated at straight-line rates based on the
estimated service lives of major asset components. Annual
average depreciation rate approximates 3% through the
projection period.



ANNEX 16
- 56-                          Page 3
Cash Flow Statements and Balance Sheets
Customers' Contributions
5.       These include a fixed fee of D 1.500 per meter of property frontage
of up to 100 meters per extension and the estimated costs of all the extension
required beyond the first 100 meter per one extension which are to be
contributed by SONEDE customers. Projections are calculated on basis of
average frontage fee to be paid by each new customer and on the past average
for an extension (diameter, length and labor) adjusted for inflation, (8% for
materials and 5% for labor). Contributions are paid by homeowners,
industries, tourism facilities and other concerned enterprises.
Long Term Advances
6.       These represent mainly SONEDE credit facilities accorded to low
income consumers for house connections and related cost of extension of
distribution network. Five percent of the cost is paid in advance and the
remainder in five years with interest charged at commercial rates. Data on
the operation of this financing in the past was used to determine the amount
of new credits to be accorded during the projection period and repayment of
these credits.
Accounts Receivable
7.       Clients' outstanding balances for consumption of water are assumed to
be one month of sales for private customers, and four months of sales for
public and municipal customers. Other receivables will vary slightly over the
projection period. Bad debts are projected to be around 1% of total sales.
Cash is maintained at levels required for SONEDE's normal operations.
Stocks
8.       Stocks represent in 1981 about six months of consumption of
materials, fuel and chemicals. As from 1982 onwards they are projected to be
at an average of five months.
Accounts Payable
9.       Accounts payable are projected as follows:
(i)   Suppliers - two months of total capital expenditure and
purchase of materials.
(ii)   Retention Money - 6.75% of annual investments.



5 7                        ANNEX 16
Page 4
(iii)   Customers' Deposits - D 4.600 per new customer in 1982 and
thereafter adjusted in accordance with projected tariff
increases in the following years.
Long Term Loans
10.      Other than the proposed Bank loan (US$ 30.5 million) projected to be
repayable in 17 years (including a grace period of four years) at interest of
12% per annum, borrowings include:
(i)   Existing Bank Group lending and borrowing from other
international lenders under existing loans were calculated on
the basis of expected disbursements and terms of repayment.
(ii) Proposed loans from various international lenders. These are
currently being processed and disbursements on some of these
are expected to start in 1982. Repayment of these loans
would vary between 15-20 years with grace periods of 4-5
years, and interest would vary between 4% and 8.5% per annum.
(iii)   Expected borrowings from unidentified sources for projects
which will start in 1984 and later. It is assumed that these
borrowings will be subject to interest of about 6% to 7% and
have to be repaid in 19 years including a four year grace
period.



- 58-
ANNEX 17
TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents in Project File
AI    Bilan des ressources en Eau
A2    Aspects of Technical Cooperation, UNDP
A3    Extract from the "Etude de la Demande de Logements Sociaux dans les
Gouvernorats du Nord"
B1    Plan National de l'eau, SONEDE, October 1981
B2    Etude de tarification, SONEDE, October 1981
B3    L'Eau Potable dans le Plan de Développement (1982-86), SONEDE,
September 1981
B4    Feasibility study, Cap Bon project
B5    Feasibility study, Ettiaira project
B6    SONEDE's appraisal report, Beja
B7    SONEDE's appraisal report, Moularès
B8    Note sur l'exploitation et la présentation des données de base
B9    Comptes prévisionnels 1982, SONEDE
B10   Etude de faisabilité des possibilités d'économie de l'eau potable dans
les centres touristiques, SONEDE
Bll   Formation du Personnel, SONEDE
B12   Rapport de la Statistique - SONEDE
Cl    Detailed disbursement scbedule
C2    Financial working papers
C3    Marginal cost calculation
C4    Rural water supplies - Analysis of sample
C5    Draft water conservation plan (consultant)
C6    L'Eau Potable dans le Sixième Plan de Développement



8.            TUNISIA    9
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MAJOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
-J~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e.
~~~~~~~ Me i                                                  .     ,/1 BG.br J  
0\LE KE// /\  t t- - 
-36'   <                                                                                                                                                                 fo  aae  36«-
I~~                                                                                           A
0                 .\ t\t   ~~~Sbeic Wl                                                      e\.l` 
' 35''                                                                      Y                                                                              7 \   35°
W xX ,,._ S _ - = < t C~~~~~~~~~~~ekhiec 
-34'                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~34e~
he--   ,Ghon--hc                                                     r
Nefto                                                                    *       -\GAbES                     H0 '
2  4   E~~tJ    «   -,-«->~El K..t.o       |
Ths map hat b-een prepered by tPeh
Wtrid (tanis staff petcuihfr- (t otiTer jl;)
O  d  hrepro rta.ch  t  t   -ted
(0e denompnna,(nonsedstdtht     U  
bound6srestOw hontm,th s  mp      < B c , -     L  
aeVpcbdarze5   8°                                   Exis' ins    rojecf 
t ° 0 _ Dr              msP< = taoPpelines                                                                                                              7
t c44RANC~~~~~~~~~~~                          O ~~    Reservoirs
tA0~~~         33e      )                 Pumptng Stations
E           Weil Fields                                    ~0
-           ~~Dams
Mndc o,  ne          n                                        Chotits
T@E>,    ï,S ts  F GRECP               -     Average Annual Rainfail, in mm
I                                   ~~~~~~~~~Main Roads
MALTA                       -t--   Radwys
8TUNI A                                      *     International A/rports
.±e    Ports         Budre
/ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~-  -*-  lnternationol Boundctries\R.
A l u _G             @    ; 6A;      @           Û      20     40      60     80    100
i~~~~~ ~                     K"O'EER W!; W9>v                            <_ 
KIL CM E T E R S~~                                      1 LB YA
J                                                                                           e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Ot                    Tp J-tonp,t       /     /1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~     t-st~~L



