Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3258-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SOCIETE NATIONALE
D)EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
(SONEDE)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SIXTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
April 5, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offdial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (DT)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate which
is used in the Staff Appraisal Report approximates the current rate. It is:
1 US$   DTO.500
1 DT   US$2.00
SONEDE's Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BDET   - Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie)
GDP    - Gross Domestic Product
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
LCB    - Local Competitive Bidding
ODA    - Official Development Assistance
PPAR   - Project Performance Audit Report
SONEDE - National Water Supply and Distribution Company
(Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de,
Distribution des Eaux)



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIXTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Soci4te Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des
Eaux (SONEDE)
Guarantor:          Republic of Tunisia
Amount:             US$30.5 million equivalent, including a capitalized front-
end fee
Terms:              17 years including 4 years of grace; interest would be at
11.6 percent per year.
Project
Description:        The proposed project would support SONEDE's investment
program in rural areas, and its house connection program
during 1982 to 1984, thus expanding and improving access to
piped water for the population in rural and urban areas.
It would consist of: (i) constructing new, and expanding
and improving existing, water supply systems in about 150
rural and semi-urban centers; (ii) providing credit
facilities to low-income groups to help finance water pipe
connections from main pipes to dwellings; and (iii)
installing about 80,000 water meters in dwellings newly
connected to the supply system. Benefits of the project
would accrue mostly to low-income groups, namely about
480,000 inhabitants who would be provided in their
dwellings with running water, and about 150,000 rural
dwellers who would get access to safe water from public
stand-pipes. The project presents no special risks.
Estimated Cost;
Local     Foreign      Total
------- US $ Millions-------
Rural and semi-urban centers    11.1         12.2         23.3
House connections                 14.0       14.0         28.0
Water meters                       1.1        1.8          2.9
Subtotal                        26.2        28.0         54.2
Engineering                        1.4         -           1.4
Physical contingencies             1.7        1.8          3.5
Price contingencies                2.2        2.2          4.4
Total project cost              31.5 /1    32.0          63.5
Front-end fee                       -         0.5          0.5
Total financing required          31.5       32.5         64.0
/1  Including about $12.7 million in taxes and duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



- ii -
Financing Plan (US$ millions):
Local      Foreign      Total
-----------Cost    …----…
SONEDE                            16.7           2.0       18.7
Proposed Bank loan                  -           30.5       30.5
Government equity                 14.8                     14.8
Total                         31.5          32.5        64.0
Financing Plan of SONEDE's
Overall Program 1982-86:           US$ Million        Percent
Total SONEDE Requirements              531.6            100.0
Sources:
Net internal cash generation   130.0                  24.4
Customers' contribution          105.2                19.8
Self-financing subtotal              235.2                44.2
Government equity                     91.4                17.2
Borrowings:
Existing long-term loans
Bank loans                       9.0                 1.7
Other                          62.8                 11.8
Expected long-term loans
Bank                            30.5                 5.8
Other                         102.7                 19.3
Total borrowing                  205.0                38.6
Total Sources                          531.6               100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
-------…=-US$ Million-----------
Annual                             8.2    9.3    8.9    3.0       1.1
Cumulative                         8.2   17.5   26.4   29.4    30.5
Self-Financing Ratio and
Internal Financial
Rate of Return:    self-financing ratio (contribution by net internal cash
generation and customers to investment program 1982-86)
would be 44.2 percent which would yield an average
financial rate of return of about 7.5 percent over the
five-year period.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3785-TUN of April 5, 1982



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO SOCIETE NATIONALE
D'EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A SIXTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE)
*         with the Guarantee of the Republic of Tunisia for the equivalent of US$ 30.5
million to help finance a Sixth Water Supply Project. The loan, which
includes a capitalized front-end fee of 1.5 percent on the Bank loan, would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic
Memorandum" (No.3399-TUN) was issued on September 15, 1981. Economic missions
visited Tunisia in October 1981 and March 1982 to review a draft of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86); this part reflects their preliminary findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas; although the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and those of
phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there are recent promising
indications of new reserves, but it is too early to assess their exact poten-
tial. There is also considerable tourism potential, and efforts have been
made during the last decade to develop it rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the end of
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about 62
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 112
percent of minimum standard requirements. The sharp decrease in mortality
rates was not fully compensated by the simultaneous decrease in fertility and
birth rates, despite an active family planning policy pursued by the Govern-
ment. Therefore, the annual natural demographic growth rate decreased only
slightly from 2.6 percent in the 1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s. Moreover,
after 1976, the net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by
restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya. As a consequence,
the residential population of 6.57 million by the middle of 1981 exceeds the
level projected five years earlier by 130,000.
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of total invest-
ments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
1/ Updating Part I of the President's Report for a Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)
Project (Report No. P-3219-TUN of February 26, 1982).



- 2 -
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 65 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1980 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 17
percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976,
not so much in terms of overall growth as in terms of the underlying growth
factors: output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average
below the demographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace
than projected both mainly because of the slump in European markets. By
contrast, manufacturing industry other than textiles, as well as energy,
phosphate processing, construction, and construction materials, expanded at a
fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, partic-
ularly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable
from 1976 to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than
exports, and the terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply higher
post-1974 export prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained
relatively small, and domestic savings financed on average over 76 percent of
investment, which increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76
to 30 percent for 1977-81. The current account deficit averaged $450 million
per year (1977-81), and was easily financed; grant aid and private investments
(mainly for oil exploration) provided about 30 percent, while the remainder
was mainly covered by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus, during the 1970s
total foreign debt increased little relative to GDP, and the debt service
ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and redistri-
buting domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent to
about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers including for social security accounted for 19
percent of total current budget outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved,
except for the employment target. The actual GDP growth fell short by 1.0
percentage point of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., while the investment
objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully
met. Completion of some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion
of the oil refinery) were, however, delayed, but private sector investments,
both foreign and national, exceeded Plan targets.
10.       Open and hidden unemployment is a serious problem for the Tunisian
economy at present. During 1977-81, although job creation objectives were
achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction, these sectors
could only absorb 76 percent of new job seekers at a time when migration to
Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment rate, estimated at
about 13 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not declined.



- 3 -
11.      Medium-term Prospects.  The draft Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)
has been prepared and should be discussed by the newly elected Parliament in
June 1982. The main objectives are employment generation, export promotion,
and more rapid growth in the three least developed regions of the country
(North-West, Center-West, and South). Sectoral priority is to be given to
agriculture, tourism, and electrical and mechanical industries.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas
sector. Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging.
Based on known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields
that recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil
and gas production would at best be stabilized at about its present annual
level of 5-6 million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade.
However, barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rapid rise in
domestic demand for energy, Tunisia will have to face the consequences of a
relative decline in energy revenues. The Government considers that the
situation requires immediate policy changes and is analyzing the most urgent
ones to be included in the Sixth Plan. By introducing these changes on time,
Tunisia expects to reduce the associated economic and social strains, and
avoid major balance- of-payments problems.
13.      The draft Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range
of 5.9 to 6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate
is in line with recent trends. Projected growth of traditional exports
(tourism, textiles, and phosphates-based chemicals) is insufficient to compen-
sate for the projected decline in oil export revenues; these exports should be
supplemented by new ones, in particular electrical and mechanical products.
Production diversification and export promotion will, however, take time to
bear fruit given, in particular, the depressed world market prospects. The
Plan strategy therefore rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to
control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario assumes no improvement in
terms of trade, as was brought about by oil price rises in 1973-74 and in
1979-80. This would not only affect the external account but also result in
slower growth of domestic savings, particularly public savings.
14.      Consequently, the draft Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed
investment rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 26 percent for the
Plan period. This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant
prices relative to the Fifth Plan investment.  A major objective is to correct
recent capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation
of investments. More resources would be allocated to small and medium manu-
facturing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem and reduce income disparities between rural and urban
areas. Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the incen-
tive system toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to offer
free industrial zones and direct subsidies to job creation for new projects
in underdeveloped zones, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and Household
Workshops was created. In order to promote a more efficient technical and
financial management of the public and private modern sector, the draft Plan
assigns a major role in project promotion and supervision to an expanded net-
work of new Development Banks (two opened in 1981 and three are planned for



- 4 -
1982); they are to be joint ventures with foreign investors and should
alleviate the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of public
investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation,
and public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption and
stimulate savings. As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982,
sizeable price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented,
and the whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving
accounts and term deposits being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. There was a
sizeable increase of the legal minimum wage (30 percent) in March 1982, mainly
to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the Government
recognizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost
increases (including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with
productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism,
and improve its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured
goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive
since independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent
of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the
young and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but increased in some rural zones
in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricultural perform-
ance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and the interior (West)
widened, in part because the system of price controls and subsidies as well as
budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The Government is
using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the largest zones of poverty, with
a view to eradicating them before the end of this century. Reducing the demo-
graphic growth rate is considered an important factor in this endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 22
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could, how-
ever, be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving their
relevance and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs of the
poor and rural groups.
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, and
their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and-the medical referral
system is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often
excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality
remains high relative to middle-income countries.



- 5 -
20.      In the draft Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing
and water supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs
(health, shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (train-
ing). In education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would
provide a nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would
create polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education.
In health, the draft Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive
medicine and nutrition education. Finally, as regards housing, public sub-
sidized programs will be directed to the neediest population groups. The
housing demand from households above the minimum standard income limit will be
satisfied by the private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  As mentioned above, the growth
of foreign borrowing was modest during the second half of the 1970s, and a
growing share of foreign funds was provided by public sources at relatively
soft terms. During the 1977-80 period, foreign loan commitments averaged
about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the form of official
assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from bilateral
sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, and some
oil-surplus countries.   About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by the
Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1981, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at about $3.8 billion, or 40 percent of GNP; debt
service was 12 percent of exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.7
percent in 1970.
22.      The external trade deficit reached $464 million in 1981, and is
projected to grow to about $1 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at one billion dollars per year on average (at present
dollar exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA providing
half of the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil and gas dis-
coveries, external debt service would be about 13 percent of total export
revenues in 1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely imple-
mentation of the already mentioned policy changes to curb domestic demand,
promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be noted,
however, that the draft Sixth Plan recommends a low growth scenario in order
to preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and credit-
worthiness. This objective is even more crucial if the country is to succeed
in mobilizing the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in the
Plan. Foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s but have gained
momentum during the last three years in line with increased activities in the
oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign investors in manufacturing.
Such investments have increased from $50 million in 1976 to about $200 million
in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of total investments for
1977-81. The draft Plan's growth scenario estimates that about 15 percent of
total investment could be financed by foreign capital, equivalent to an annual
inflow of $400 million. The newly created Development Banks (para. 14) are
expected to play a significant role in this context.



- 6 -
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook can be considered
favorable in the medium term. In the longer term, much will depend on the
policy changes to be initiated during the next few years, and on developments
in the hydrocarbon sector. Considering its long record of prudent and skill-
ful balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good grounds
to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary policy
changes and will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending. The
Bank's close dialogue with the Government on several policy aspects at the
macro and micro levels will be pursued in connection with the implementation             -
of the Sixth Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
25.      Since 1962,  the Bank has committed to Tunisia fifty loans and eleven
IDA credits amounting respectively to $999.7 million and $70.1 million (net of
cancellations) of which twenty-one loans and nine credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. As of
December 31, 1981, overall disbursements amounted to 62 percent of appraisal
estimates, which compares favorably with other countries in the region. In a
number of sectors, impor ant institutional improvements have been achieved,
and autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the effi-
cient management of the related sectors or subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth
and distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented policies, technological
changes and labor productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the
development of basic infrastructure and for institution building in key public
services. An important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian
authorities in the timely and well- coordinated preparation of projects
through missions and advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program, and the use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility.
The Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts to increase the
mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing for the projects
it assists. The latter is particularly important in view of the extent of
Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 23 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 35
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 23 percent, and industrial
and hotel financing, mostly through the Banque de Developpement Economique de
Tunisie (BDET), 19 percent of total commitments.



-7-
28.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which enhance domestic integration,
research and productivity and help reduce the gap between income groups and
between urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to
employment creation, institution building, and agricultural development. In
addition to the proposed water supply project focusing on rural areas,
proposed future lending would include projects in agriculture, industry,
energy, urban development, education, and technical assistance for project
preparation.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum export-
ing to a petroleum importing country. A preliminary analysis of this issue
was included in the last Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 3399-TUN of
September 15, 1981). The Plan Review Report, to be issued together with two
sector surveys on agriculture and urban development towards the end of 1982,
will deepen this analysis.  Further economic and sector work will include a
review of employment issues, of incentive and pricing policies (in association
with the study on effective protection), of the long-term energy strategy and
of the education, transport, and small scale industry sectors.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 15 percent of total public com-
mitments to Tunisia during 1979-1980. Their share in total debt outstanding
and disbursed at the end of 1980 (including loans from private sources) was
10 percent and their share in debt service during 1980 was 11 percent. The
share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt is expected to
increase to about 14 percent by 1986, and their share in the debt service to
about 18 percent.
31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societ4 Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminium
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $12
million, as of September 30, 1981.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
32.      Water in Tunisia is a scarce commodity.  Only about 10 percent of the
country, in the north-west, receives rainfall above an average of 600 mm per
year, and fresh surface water sources are found far inland. The bulk of the
population, however, lives in the coastal areas and has to be supplied with
water from surface sources located often hundreds of kilometers away. Most
ground water resources have a limited capacity, thus being able to supply only
the population of small towns and villages, or are of high salinity making
them unsuitable, if untreated, for potable or even agricultural use.
Consequently, fresh water has to be supplemented increasingly through
desalination and the reuse of treated wastewater.



-8-
33.      Presently about two-thirds of the population is served through public
water supply systems, about 97 percent of the population in towns and about 24
percent in rural areas. While most of the urban population is served through
individual house connections, only about 20 percent of the rural population
served has running water in their homes. The average per capita domestic use
of water by consumers with direct service lines is about 80 liters/day, which
is considered adequate. Consumers relying on water from public standpipes use
on the average about 10 liters/day. Per capita consumption is expected to
increase, since standpipes will gradually be replaced through private house
connections.
Sector Strategy
34.      Sector Management.  The Ministry of Agriculture manages all water
resources in the country. The "Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eaux" (SONEDE), an autonomous public entity, which is under
the general supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for the
production and distribution of potable water in urban areas and large
villages. The Ministry's Rural Engineering Department (Direction du Genie
Rural - DGR) is responsible for the rural areas and villages with a population
of under 500. Conscious of the need to conserve and use effectively scarce
water resources, the Government enacted in 1975 a water code to regulate the
exploitation and allocation of the water sources, and to establish usage
priorities. As provided in the code, a National Water Committee, representing
the main producers and customers of water, was set up to assist the Ministry
of Agriculture in the management of the water resources. The Government has
also prepared three master plans for long-range development and use of the
water resources in the northern, central and southern regions of the country.
The first phase of the Northern Master Plan, which involves the impounding and
transfer of the Medjerda River waters, is under execution. The Bank is
providing financial assistance to the Government (Loan 1431-TUN, Sidi Salem
Multipurpose Project) for the execution of this phase. The second phase is
under preparation with assistance from the German Government. A similar plan
for Central Tunisia has been completed in draft form and is under
consideration by the Government. The master plan for water development of
Southern Tunisia is serving as a basis for the Bank-assisted Southern
Irrigation project (Loan 1796-TUN of February 8, 1980). Finally, the
Government is embarking on a potable water conservation plan which, through
systematic leak detection, the promotion of low water consumption fixtures and
the reuse of industrial and purified wastewater, in the long run, may reduce
potable water consumption per capita by about 20 percent in the long run.
35.      Sixth Development Plan (1982-86).  The major constraint to rapid
expansion of piped water distribution systems is the remote location of scarce
fresh water sources from population centers. As a result, unusually long
transmission pipelines are required which are expensive to build and operate.
Furthermore, water supply systems for the dispersed rural population involve
high per-capita investments. The major emphasis of the sector development
strategy has, therefore, been to improve access to safe potable water in urban
areas and in agglomerated villages. This emphasis is likely to continue
during the Sixth Development Plan (1982-82) period. SONEDE's Sixth Plan, a
draft of which has been reviewed by the Bank, foresees an investment of D275
million ($550 million) in current terms in the water supply sector. As a
result of this effort, the proportion of the urban population that would be
served with house connections would increase from 80 percent to 92 percent and



- 9 -
the proportion of the population in rural centers with access to piped water
would increase from about 45 percent to 60 percent, one third of which would
be served through house connections. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture
plans, through its Rural Engineering Department (DGR), to increase its
investments benefitting the rural population in small villages, from D15
million ($30 million) in 1977-81 to D40 million ($80 million) in 1982-86.
Previous Bank Involvment in the Sector
36.      Since 1968, the Bank group has been extensively involved in the
sector and has assisted in financing five projects of SONEDE (through four
loans and one credit). SONEDE itself was set up in 1968 under the first Bank
loan (581-TUN of January 1969), which financed water supply works in the
regions of Tunis and Sousse. An IDA credit (209-TUN of June 1970), assisted in
financing the improvement and expansion of water supply works in eight areas
of the country. Both projects were jointly financed with the Swedish
International Development Authority (SIDA). A second loan (989-TUN of May
1974) of $23 million helped SONEDE finance the construction of water supply
systems in the country's second largest city, Sfax, and 62 rural centers.
Another loan (1445-TUN of July 1977) of $21 million helps finance the
production and distribution facilities in five northern provinces. The Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development is co-financing this project. More
recently, a sector loan (1702-TUN of May 1979) of $25 million contributed to
financing water production and distribution systems in towns and rural
centers. In addition, the Bank Group assisted the development of the sector
through a tourism infrastructure project (Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN of
September 1972), which included water supply works of $18.5 million in
priority tourism zones along the coast, and through the Sidi Salem
Multipurpose project mentioned above (para. 34).
37.      The Project Performance Audit Report on the first two projects (PPAR
No.1902 of February 13, 1978) concluded that they had met their basic
objective of providing water of acceptable quality for the increasing
requirements of the population in the areas served, and contributed greatly
towards the development of SONEDE into a technically sound and financially
viable institution. The implementation of the third project was successfully
concluded in 1980 although at substantially higher cost than estimated at
appraisal due to the need to revise the project design during project
implementation on account of insufficient project preparation prior to
appraisal. The execution of the fourth and fifth projects is proceeding
satisfactorily, and the projects are likely to meet their objectives largely
within the time horizons originally envisaged.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.      The proposed project is the result of a continuing dialogue between
the Bank and SONEDE on sector development in the light of feasible financial
parameters. It was first discussed in concrete terms with SONEDE in March
1981, in the context of a study on the company's long-term objectives and
financial requirements which it undertook with Bank assistance in the
framework of the Fifth project. The project was appraised in October/November
1981, and negotiations were held in Washington in March 1982. The Tunisian
delegation was headed by Mr. Ahmed Frih, President and Director General of
SONEDE, and included Mr. Masmoudi of the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A



- 10 -
report entitled "Tunisia-National Rural Water Supply Project (Sixth Water
Supply Project); Staff Appraisal Report" (No. 3785-TUN of April 5, 1982) is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of
the project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
A map showing the major water supply systems in Tunisia is attached.
39.      The Borrower.  The national water supply company,  SONEDE, would be
the borrower of the proposed loan. SONEDE is an autonomous public enterprise
under the general supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. It is run as a
commercial enterprise although its investment, borrowing and tariff policies
and programs are subject to Government approval. Three of SONEDE's twelve
Supervisory Board members represent the company's private commercial and
individual customers, the balance represent Government Ministries and other
public agencies involved in water resources development.
40.      The Minister of Agriculture appoints SONEDE's General Manager, who is
also Chairman of the Board. The incumbent has been in charge of the company
for many years, and is competent and experienced. SONEDE's organizational
structure is satisfactory for the operations of the company and its control.
Under existing agreements with the Bank, SONEDE is committed to consult with
the Bank before changing its organizational and administrative structure.  The
company is adequately staffed for the present and future requirements of its
operations. It offers attractive conditions of employment permitting the
recruitment of qualified personnel.
41.      SONEDE's financial practices, accounting and control procedures are
generally sound.  Collection of water bills is now satisfactory.  As of
December 31, 1981 accounts receivable from private consumers were about 55
days of billings, from Government offices and municipal agencies about 109
days of billings, both well within the periods specified under present
agreements with the Bank. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
Government departments and agencies would continue to pay their bills within a
reasonable period of time (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02). This period
had been defined in the context of the Fourth project as extending up to 120
days after billing, it being understood that such definition would be
applicable to this project.
Project Objectives and Approach
42.      The objectives of the project are to (i) improve living conditions in
rural and urban areas by making safe water available to an increased portion
of the population; (ii) strengthen SONEDE's project preparation and appraisal
capacity and its financial policies; (iii) induce other bilateral and multi-
lateral financing agencies who, to a large extent, rely on the Bank's
appraisal, to continue to support SONEDE's investment program; and (iv) help
economize on water consumption through the preparation and implementation of a
water conservation plan.
43.      The proposed project would support SONEDE's activities in rural areas
and its house connections program during a three-and-a-half-year period
(January 1982 through June 1984) through a sector-loan approach.  This
approach is being applied successfully in the Fifth project (Loan 1702-TUN)



- il -
and implies that SONEDE itself would decide on the selection and appraisal of
subprojects which are to be financed from the proposed loan, on the basis of
criteria agreed upon with the Bank.
Project Description
44.         The project would have the following components:
(i) expansion and improvement of existing and construction of new water supply
systems in about 150 rural and semi-urban centers with more than 500
inhabitants; (ii) credit facilities for low-income consumers financing
individual house connections; and (iii) acquisition of about 80,000 water
meters for the house connections mentioned under (ii) above.
45.      Water Supply Systems.  During the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86),
SONEDE expects to extend and improve the water production and distribution
facilities in 76 large villages and semi-urban centers with an average
population of 3,800, and to introduce new systems in about 210 villages with
an average population of about 600. The proposed project would finance the
works in about 60 percent of the above centers, which would be selected on a
priority basis according to criteria agreed upon with the Bank, and which
would be implemented during the first three years (1982 to 1984) of the Plan.
About 480,000 of the project beneficiaries would be provided with piped water
in their dwellings and an additional 150,000 rural dwellers would be provided
with access to safe water from public standpipes.
46.      The selection criteria determining the eligibility for financing
under the proposed loan are: (i) the marginal cost of water should be less
than $1.50/m3 equivalent in 1981 prices, which amounts to about 2.8 times the
average marginal cost of water in Tunisia; (ii) the estimated total cost per
subproject should not exceed $1.5 million equivalent (1981 prices); (iii) the
proposed subproject should be the least-cost solution identified after
evaluating all technically feasible alternatives; (iv) sufficient water
resources should exist to ensure water availability during the full life of
the subproject; and (v) the subproject should be inscribed in SONEDE's
investment budget to ensure the availability of complementary local-cost
financing. For each subproject to be submitted to the Bank for financing,
SONEDE would prepare an appraisal report, which would be submitted to the Bank
prior to issuing tender calls.   During negotiations assurances were obtained
from SONEDE on the application of the above selection criteria and procedures
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
47.      House Connections.  SONEDE expects to install, on force account,
about 35,000 house connections per year for its customers during the Sixth
Plan period (1982-86). Once installed these become the property of the
house-owner against payment to SONEDE of the cost of these works and a
maintenance fee. SONEDE has, in the past, provided credit facilities for
these house connections to its low-income customers. Credit facilities are
extended to private house-owners or leaseholders, subject to agreement of the
owner who would assume joint liability. Records show that about 75 percent of
all connections were made on credit in the past. Funds would be made
available under the project to ensure the continuation of this credit program
during the first three and a half years of the Plan period. The credit would



- 12 -
be repaid over a five-year period at an interest rate which would be the
average between the rate for local medium-term credit available to SONEDE and
the Bank rate. It would amount to about 11 percent and thus be clearly
positive in real terms given the past and expected inflation in Tunisia.
Assurances from SONEDE were obtained during negotiations that credit for house
connections would be made available on the above terms to rural and low-income
urban consumers (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
48.      Water Meters.  To ensure accurate billing and encourage water economy
SONEDE incorporates a water meter in each house connection. The water meters
remain SONEDE's property. The company charges a rental fee for their use,
which consumers pay quarterly together with the water charges. SONEDE would
acquire about 80,000 water meters under the project. The continued and
increased use of water meters will not only improve the accuracy of water
billing but also permit a better evaluation of water losses through leaks in
the network currently estimated at between 7 and 10 percent of total water
production.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
49.      The total costs of the project are estimated at $63.5 million
including a foreign exchange component of $32.0 million. These costs include
about $12.7 million of customs duties and other taxes, and provide adequate
physical (15 percent) and price (8.5 percent for 1982 and 7.5 percent per year
for 1983 through 1985, for both foreign and local cost) contingencies. The
proposed loan of $30.5 million would be made to SONEDE, with the Government's
guarantee, to finance the full foreign exchange cost of the rural centers and
house connections, or about 59 percent of total cost, net of customs duties
and taxes, and the front-end fee of $450,739. SONEDE would assume the foreign
exchange risk. The local cost of the project and the foreign exchange cost of
water meters would be financed by SONEDE and Government equity contributions.
Financial Performance
50.      SONEDE has, over the past four years, earned a surplus averaging $6.0
million a year, and has generally met the rate-of-return requirement of 7.5
percent as stipulated under earlier agreements with the Bank. Preliminary
results for 1981, however, indicate a decline in profitability due to
increasing operating cost mostly as a result of a major cost-of-living
adjustment of wages, and a deferral of tariff increases. The Government
actions on tariffs in early 1982 and planned for the future, which are based
on a tariff study prepared by SONEDE in 1981 in the context of an overall
review of its financial objectives, were confirmed prior to negotiations. An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that SONEDE will review before
November 30 of each year starting in 1982, the adequacy of its tariffs to meet
its financial objectives (para. 51), on the basis of financial forecasts
satisfactory to the Bank, submit a copy of such review reports to the Bank and
take any remedial measures as may be necessary (Loan Agreement, Section 5.06
and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.05).



- 13 -
51.      During negotiations, assurances on a number of financial ratios were
obtained which the company would have to meet to ensure its sound financial
position. Starting from 1982, SONEDE would be required to (i) cover in any
one year out of its revenues (excluding customers contributions) all operating
expenses, debt service, increase in working capital other than cash, and not
less than 20 percent of the average estimated capital expenditures during that
year and the following two years; and (ii) not incur any long-term debt
without the Bank's concurrence, unless its net revenue, before allowing for
depreciation and interest payments, is at least 1.5 times the maximum future
annual debt service (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.04 and 5.05 ). In addition,
an understanding was reached with SONEDE and the Government during
negotiations that the company would finance at least 40 percent of its capital
expenditures during 1982 through 1986, and during future time periods agreed
upon between SONEDE and the Bank, from its revenues including customers
contributions. The above cash-generation requirements would replace the
rate-of-return covenant in the loan agreements between SONEDE and the Bank on
the Fourth and Fifth Water Supply projects (Loan Agreement, Section 8.01); the
debt-service covenant under (ii) would confirm SCNEDE's existing commitments
under previous agreements.
52.      The financial forecasts for SONEDE up to 1987 show that the company
would remain well within the proposed performance objectives mentioned above.
Meeting the stipulated parameters would ensure also that a satisfactory rate
of return averaging about 7.5 percent would be achieved over the 1982-86
period.
Procurement and Disbursements
53.      To the extent possible, contracts for civil works and equipment and
pipes and fittings will be grouped together to attract both smaller and larger
contractors and to speed up the procurement process. However, because of the
large number and dispersed nature of the subprojects, it is expected that the
civil works contracts, mostly the laying of pipes, will attract little
international attention. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) according to
Bank guidelines is therefore proposed only for civil works contracts of or
above $800,000, which would be subject to prior Bank review before award. All
works contracts under $800,000 up to an aggregate total amount of $14 million
would be awarded after local competitive bidding (LCB) according to SONEDE's
standard procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Some of these contracts
selected at random would be reviewed ex-post during supervision missions.
Even local contractors may not be attracted to works in some of the small
isolated villages at reasonable prices. It is, therefore, assumed that SONEDE
will execute 15 percent of all civil works under force account which would be
eligible for Bank financing provided that the aggregate value of such works
does not exceed the equivalent of $2.5 million.
54.      SONEDE would procure most of the equipment, pipes and fittings in
bulk through ICB according to Bank guidelines. A margin of preference of 15
percent or the actual customs duties (whichever is less) will be allowed for
domestic manufacturers. Small contracts up to $200,000 each, and up to t1



- 14 -
million in the aggregate, where sufficient grouping is not feasible, would be
procured through LCB according to SONEDE's procedures. All equipment and
material contracts of $200,000 or more would be subject to prior Bank review
before award. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the above
procurement procedures be followed (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4).
55.      The loan would be disbursed against (i) 40 percent of total
expenditures on civil works undertaken by contractors and duly documented;
(ii) 40 percent of works carried out on force account against statements of
expenditure; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures of all equipment and
materials imported directly for the purposes of the project or 60 percent of
local expenditures; and (iv) 50 percent of the credits accorded for house
connections to low-income consumers assumed to represent 75 percent of all
house connections, against statements of allocated credits. Since the project
would cover part of SONEDE's investment plan during 1982-84 and the tendering
for some rural water supply systems is well underway, it is recommended that
advance contracting as from January 1, 1982 be accepted and that disbursements
on works for house connections be financed retroactively under the loan, up to
an aggregate amount of $2 million. The closing date of the loan would be
December 31, 1986.
Monitoring and Auditing
56.      Assurances were obtained from SONEDE during negotiations that it will
submit to the Bank (i) quarterly progress reports on project implementation
for comment and (ii) within six months after the closing date of the loan a
completion report on the execution and initial operation of the project.
Assurances were also obtained that SONEDE will (i) use a system of monitoring
indicators to follow the attainment of the project objectives; (ii) submit to
the Bank reports measuring operating results against the monitoring
indicators, on June 30 of each year starting on June 30, 1983 until five years
after project completion; and (iii) take any remedial action to meet such
indicators (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 (b) and (c)).
57.      Documentation supporting expenditures on force account for certain
civil works and on allocated credits for house connections would be retained
by SONEDE and made available to Bank supervision missions (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.01(b)). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SONEDE would
continue to have its accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank and submit certified audit reports to the Bank for review and comment
within six months after each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
Benefits and Risks
58.      The main beneficiaries of the proposed project would be about 150,000
people in rural areas who, for the first time, would gain access to a safe
potable water supply through public standpipes. In addition, the quality of
life of about half a million people would be improved by providing them with
water in their homes through the house connection program. Nearly all of the
project's beneficiaries would be in the low-income brackets. Indirect
benefits of the project relate to the improvement in health and productivity
of the people who would now be provided with a safe water supply and
time-savings for those who would be supplied with water in their homes.



- 15 -
59.      The risks of not achieving the project objectives are small.  SONEDE
has demonstrated, in the context of the ongoing Fifth Water Supply project,
that it is capable of implementing subprojects of the kind included in this
project, and of a sizable house connection program. The project is not
expected to have any significant adverse effect on the environment since it is
supplemented in urban areas by corresponding investments in sewerage systems.
In rural areas, water consumption and population density are very low so that
individual waste disposal systems (septic tanks and seepage pits) are adequate
to absorb the waste water. The implementation of the proposed project,
therefore, presents no special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.      The draft Loan Agreement between Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et
de Distribution des Eaux and the Bank, and the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executives Directors separately. Through Article
VIII of the Loan Agreement, the requirements of Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of this
Loan Agreement are made applicable to the Loan Agreements between SONEDE and
the Bank on the Fourth and Fifth Water Supply projects. Special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the above loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 5, 1982
Washington, D.C.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 16 -                                            ANNEX I
IUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                 Page  1  of  6
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE   ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - M0OST RECENT ESTATEM
TOTAL            164.0                                                      MIDDLE INC4E
AGRICULTURAL      76.7                                MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA 4          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 L  ESTIMATE Lb         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN MERICA 6 CAUIESAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 220.0        370.0    1120.0*               865.5                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     173.4       304.2     618.1                 758.3                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  4Z21.0      5127.0    6194.0*                   *                     6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT UF TOTAL) 36.0        43.5       50.9                 45.2                    64.2
PUPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       9.4
STATIONARY POPULATIUN (MILLIONS)                         16.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATIUN IS REACHED                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       25.7        31.3       37.8                 36.3                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     55.0        67.0       78.7                442.7                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                         43.4        46.2      41.9                  44.2                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        50.0      54.5                  52.4                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.1         3.8       3.6                   3.4                     4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8 /c      1.9/c      2.1*                 2.7                     2.4
URBAN                              3.2         3.8       3.8                   4.6                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.6         38.4       31.0                 41.5                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     18.9        13.8       10.7                 12.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5         3.2        2.2                  2.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THVUSANDS)       ..        29.2      180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         10.0       21.3
FOUD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.0        96.0     112.0                  96.3                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   80.0        88.0      112.0                110.4                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        57.0      73.0                  73.4                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       12.0        14.0      22.0                  17.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.0        18.4       12.5                 14.9                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.6         54.0       58.4                 55.9                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                     148.Oj      135.0      90.0                   ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        49.0       70.0                 59.4                    65.7
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  83.9                    79.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  40.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        62.0        ..                    ..                    59.9
URBAN                               ..       100.0        ..                    ..                    75.7
RURAL                               ..        34.0      60.0                    ..                    30.4
PUPULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN         10026.1      5934.0    3576.2                4174.5                  1728.2
PUPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       727.5    1167.8                1780.5                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            373.0/e    409.1      427.2                 647.4                   471.2
URBAN                               ..       290.2     341.4                 547.2                   558.0
RURAL                               *-      1269.3    1273.1                3361.1
AUMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        24.1        ..                  25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE UF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.1 L     6.0
URBAN                               ..         5.1 L    5.8
RURAL                               ..         5.1 L    6.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         3.2 /f
URBAN                               ..         2.7 7T
RURAL                               ..         3.6 If
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        24.0 /f
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 17 -
ANNEX I
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page  2  of  6
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEfAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b            MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 66.0         100.0     100.0                   85.1                      101.7
MALE                  88.0         121.0      116.0                 101.5                     103.0
FEMALE                43.0          80.0      83.0                   67.5                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   12.0        23.0       30.0                   38.0                      35.3
MALE                   19.0         33.0      38.0                   48.1                      34.9
FEMALE                  5.0         13.0       22.0                  28.3                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  24.0            11.0       35.0                   11.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             61.0          47.0      39.0                   34.9                      29.6
SECONDARY                            16.0         28.0      30.0                   23.8                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          15.5         24.0Jf    62.0                    43.0                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           11.0         13.0      18.3                   18.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          40.3          75.7     147.3                  121.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1           9.9      36.2                   37.4                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    19.0         16.0       40.4                  35.9                       62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0              ..        1.5                    3.0                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        1137.9       1214.8    1581.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      6.0          7.7        8.2                  10.5                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.0         49.8       35.0                   43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0          21.0      32.0                   27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  27.0         23.7       25.5                  26.4                       31.8
MALE                                   50.2         44.2       46.1                  47.0                       49.0
FEMALE                                  3.3          3.6        4.3                    5.7                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.8          2.1        1.8                    1.8                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..      17.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..              ..      42.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..       6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..      15.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      204.0                  271.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..      97.0                  144.6                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      193.0                  400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                  ,.          ..      193.0                  290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       20.0                   22.1                        ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..       15.0                   29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1960-65 average;
/e 1962. /f 1966.
*
The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1310.0 (at 1978-80 prices) and
6354 thousand, with a population growth rate of 2.4.



- 18 -                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL IN'DICATORS
Noron: AltSogh the data  -re draen fron sources generally jodged the mst authoritative and reliable, it should also be .oted that they way not be intet
.   I.  onmyrabte hesote of the lank of etandardizad definteions sad roarepts used by difftrent countries in oeto11         g the data.  The data are, eons-
thbelea, asaful to desorite -rdrer of s=gagtuda, indicate treode, and charaoriztaic narrat admjor differeioas betwett .ounories.
Tbc reference groups are Ci) tie same iountry troop of the abje rt counery sad (2) a ountry group nith noxebtha higher avataga inco=a tha. the -ountry groop
of  btabe arbjet nountry (excryt for  Capital Surpias fil itorstes" group there 'Middle lnine North Afoico and Middle Ent" ih  ctsen beonuse of stronger
snoin-rultural affinities).  Sn tbe referenos grooy data the averages  par  popuiatier acighted nrithmetic teats for teoh indi-ator rod ubo-n   nice
sajarity of thtrottntrhas it a group has data fur than hndioattr. Stonce tie covarage of coauntriesaxognbg theidiostors depends or tie arailability of dsat
sand is not uniform, oaution anstbe exteroised is relating anerages of one indicatnr no another. Threse anerages are only usaful In canynring the oshoe of
etendicsttratatisaaFrngtheaountryandrcferance groups.
LAND ARdA (thossand sq.kn.)                                                                   Population per tospital tad -. totol, orion, and oural - foputanion (ineal,
Taota  - Total aefara area conspaaing Sand area and inland varers.                           urhan, and rural) divided by titar ponpectine na=bar of honpital hods
Agrioultrural - fefitate ot agrticutural arcs uned ntimporarity or pat=auncthy               avatilable Sn pobihi ond prioate genaral uo.d tycaitoned honpitol and ra-
fur crops, pasturas, enahet and kitchen gardens or no tie folios; 1978 data.               habtilitatiun ranters.  Suspitul sare establishtents pervuaoanty staffad
by antleaso oar physichon. fstablis.lments providing prinoipslly ounto-
SP f5 PERdAITA (ff5) - G.SP per onaphita esrimlatos at currente marbee prices, oat-            dial rare are not Itoludod.  tourl boapitals, bowevoer, inoloda health
oulared by tamO conversiona seebod us World Sank Aetnas (19f7-7S basis); 1960,                and mediosi cente rs ot parmatently ataiffed by a phytioian (hut by a
1970, and 1979 data.                                                                          medioal assisanut, titan, nidnic,i air.) ahioh offeo ia-patient acro==o-
sand  igniet, petr iutam  naturas  gnsl andn ydo-. nuo ear neettiertl e    leay(o-           and trual bospitniq IncuS o r  at hoapil  ad meion   n   ata
trinity) in bilogatma of Jasl I quivsleat par capita; 19ff, 1970, and 1979                   Petters.  Speoalitoad hospitalsuare includad  only andor torah.
data.                                                                                      Ad=issions per Hospital Had - Toota noahe-  of ad=slsitns to or dischargee
POPULAT1ON AND VITAL STATIsTICS                                        ~~~~~~~fins huspitale divided by air nunber of baed.
Total Popalsation, Mid-Taea  (thousands) - Is at 7uly 1; 19ff, 19ff, sand 1979           SSTdItfaeSz   fHueod(esn   e   osbl)-ttl   ra,adrrl
data.                                                                                      Average...d   .k.  Sire Hof  itu1aBed (ennpaboabd)-  total, other, ed roast -
Uiben PoI aletion (perceat of total) - Satin of urban to total populanion:                   A irusehold ronsists  of a grbua  of iudividualn vbh tiara lining quaters
diffsrest definiaions of orban treatsxa  affect co=porability of dast                       and tcir =ab i   aeala.  A brarder up lodger =af or may non he istluded us
among cou=nriaa; 1960, 19ff, sad 1979 data,                                                tin  ousecholo tot f 1tis7idbal fupotses.
Pfualation Projcotiona                                                                     Average numbIr  of persons per room - total, irbai, and total - Avarage tu=-
upulntRoC  ti  year 20f0 - C=reont pupulation projeotions rke based on 19ff                bar of pernoIn pen run= in  all urban, sad rural occupied cotnanItnal
total population by age sad  eae  and their tortality and fertilitf roate.               daellings, d eafectively.  Delig  extclode bou-pan paey   t strurtures and
Projortitn pasamtern for mortality raates co=mprise of three lavela ausam-                uneciupiad partsn.
tag litfa expectancy at birth inicreasing vith couotry's pen ispita iunso=             Atress no Eleonrircity (perceta  of dveallinee) - total, urbat, and aural -
leval, sand female life expeotanry stahilieing at 77.1 yeasr.  The fort-                 Coavneventios dvetlinogs aitht eleotrioity in .ivi=g quattiti an perce=toag
meters for fertilitp onto also have three levela ansamiag deoltee in                     of total, urban, and roufa dwelli=gsrespeitively.
fertility aIoordi=g to latrne level and past family pflanning perforhave.
Sari cou=tery it iben aesigned one of these tiae coabitariota of =ortality           EDUCATION
and featility  ermods for pea) eratue purpases.                                        Adjuatad faroilm.nt Ratios
Stationaty  popolation - In a statitoary poptlneina ihere in to grosth si=ot               Primary sIIool -      hofal. mole and fiaol  - Iroat tonal, male a=d fe-alrl
the hirath rate it aqul et the death  rate, and also the age s-thrutre re-                 earoll=ee i of all ages  oe the yrimary level as perrettag- s of reepeitive
mai=s cot=sa=e.  Ibis it aohieved only atper fertility rates decliae to                     yrlmory stoool-age popalatiots  ootPally i=ilades ihildren aged h-li
the replaoosett level at unit net reproductioniate, mica eaoh gereratiat                   yeats hut adjstead for difterent fengthb  of frimoty education; for
oH momen ereplaies itsalf eamotly.  The aenatiotary popalatio= size vate                   countries evith niveasni odnianion ananibteur may eaceed 100I peroent
esrimatad on the basis ot the proj erred obarootaisaica of tbe popalatian                 esit note yt pils are baelo  on above tie official schonl age.
in  the year  h000, sad tie  arse of deolinA  of fertili fy  are rov9eplac-              SaroH darO  srbonl - total, mole sad femlal  - Cr=p=ted as above: seinedary
meat level.                                                                                 educatio  reqoires H a ldast font yearn of  approved primary inaircot1ot;
Tear atatiotaory poplatio= is reached - The year abet ststio=ary  rpoplatio=                  yrovides ge=eral, vocatio=al, orteacobar trai=i=g inutrurctinns tot pupils
siea baa bran poached.                                                                     usoally of 2I to  17 years of age; cotrespondence aourses ate generally
Pap=lstiot lanaity                                                                              eacl=ded.
Pea as. k=. - Kid-year  popalatioa par square kilomebte  (1001 breaves) of                 Voeatiomol enrollment (percent of secoadary) - Vocational i=tnituaio=a
total area; 19f, 1970 aed 1979 data.                                                        i=clude teobnical, i=duterial, or otber programs thih operate i=depead-
Per am. kx. aricaltural lead - Co=p=ted as above for agricaltaral land                       e=tly or at depart= matt  of seH o=dary instiuriots.
tly; 19f9, l970 and 197f data.                                                            Pupil-teacher ratio - pritury. .adseon.dory - Total stude=tt enrtaied i
Peaulatitm Age inruaturs frerreat) - Children (0-14 fears). vtrkng-age (15-                     primary sad secrtdary levels divided hy =ambaer  f trbar-t- in tie
.i years), cad retired  (65 years and ovee) as peroe=tages of mid-year pop=-                  orrsespo=diog levels.
latioa; 19ff, 1970. ssd 19f9 data.                                                          MAdle literay rant (perfeet) - Lirteane adults (silo  to rad and uRnto)
Poulation Growth Sacs (trert)f-_tonal - A.nnal groath rates of total mid-                       esaperoentage of totml adtlt poyulstiun aged 15 yeart and over.
pear populatioes fyo 1950-60, 1960-70, tad 197i-f9.
P 1pplation Iraed  Sata (prerenpt - =rbat - Annual grovth rates of urbia pops-           CQONgUMPTIlON
etres for :950-h0, 1960-fl, ted lHff-I9. P-seenser fats (yet thtass=d rIonoltio) - fuasseegr cart io=prise m-ro-l
Crude  irthi Ste (yea eho=stad) - i Aan=al liva fbit  par thoust=d of aid-year                cars seating last than eight pertain, etolades ambalairas, hesraea and
popSlatoan; 1960, 19ff, snd 1979 data.                                                      military vehirles.
Crnde Deaih Rte (Per athosand) - Annual deaths par eho=sands of aid-year                   Sadio Saraivers hfet thousand porolation)  - All Iypes of raceinver  for radio
pop_latan; 1961. 19ff, sad 1979 data. Ivaadrasni   no geteral pablct par troast=d of pop=latio=i eucludes at-
frost  sPrrtdurtion Rata -Average nusber of daughtersca =xa=e  mill hear it                   liceased rereivrer  i=arountriesnaud in years urban togegisrstin= of radio
baer noAl reprnductive oefitd if she emperdmioes present  gs-e-peohgia for-                 sees  asy  in affert; data for dfret years mtay =ot bi   iosparsble  foir
tility rates; =nally  five-year  averages e=diag it 1960, 19f70, and 1979.                 most asastrias thaiiseyd lifceniag.
yamil     t Pidanitg - Acreptar. Annual (pbaneatds) - dAnual nupber of acreptorn          TV  Reivers fret thoaiurd populatio=) - TO tfraivere for b- radrast no
of btrth-co=trol deaften under auspices af =antioal family plantitg progra=.                genteal puilio par rirasand populatiou; axcludes arlioce=td TV vecaioeri
ya tily Platei=g-Users (rereat af sarred mse) - Peroentage of  rried                          i=ouatries ad Sn years mint atgistr_tion of 7V tees eat in effact.
mmtt of rhild-beari=g  age ( 15-i4  years) vo use hireh-r=ttril devicts an                Ne.s.ater Circulatio= fret thousand poralnolo-h   - Shows the  average for-
all mttrred woase it tame age group.                                                        oulanio= of "duSty general i=ievesrotovsftpet", defiaed atoy ariodical
FOOD   h.. kUTElTlON  r-hq  .. "dlyc1deted  ypriari  tn raoordiag ganorul eata.   It it considered
{=des uP Food yroductioe  par fapit   (196p-71=100) - I=dex of per capita afn=al          Cinema Anntal Atte=da=ce pev Capita pr tratr  -- aed oa air  =arber of
yrod=rtio= of all food         loonadities.  Prod io=excludes are  and feed ad              tickets sold dari=  tie year, i=cludiag admisnio=s en drive-it cetnats
is et calendar  year basis.  Cob.di.ies rover priraty gooda (e.g. stasroatd                and eobily  anita.
i=stesd of sogar) ahich are edible and co=tarai=utrfents (e.g. coffee and
tea  ret  eacloded). Aggregate prodnctio= of each cos=try is bated on                  LAEOR        Y PORCE
motin 9al aver6ge praducta yrioa weights; 1961-65, 19fi, sad 1979 data.                   Total labor Prore (ehutsands) -    iton.aitally  active persoat, including
Par capita nurplo of  calories fpercsen of rAnuire=re=t) - Compared from                    nrrad ft- roea=d u=aployad bar exludi=g ho=semives, sc=de=ts, etc.,
energy eq=ivaleut of oar ford  supylies available it rountrry per ocapita                ravening popularion of all ages.  Definitio=s it various coun=tries are
per day.  Availabla auyplies co=prite dorestcO praductio=, i=ptrts lass                  eat comparable; 196f, 1970 sad 1979 data.
expatts, sad rhanges ia snook.  Her anpplies eaclude animal feed, seeds,               Petale (perceat) - peomlr labor forre at  prrcactagr of -trtl labor torce.
quC atities used in food pEocesstag, tad losses ti  distribhotto. Reqaire-             gtriculturl ft rreet) - habor forre So fanri=g,  forestry,  h-sti=g a=d
pmeats mere estimated ip P   based am physiologioal n.ade top ntval arti-                 fishiag as parceatage af total labar force; 1960, 1970 and 1999 data.
airy a=d health crtedaering e-vir Ar-latal   pereat=rue, body meeirht, age              tndtsary  (percent)      - - Labur forre in mi=i=g, oiAnlrurtyip , maafaic-rirg
sand sae  distribatiot of ptpulatio=, sand alloyieg 10 perceat far vaste at               sand elerstriity. vaster and gas as farientage of total labnt force; 19ff,
=asebold laval; 1961-h,  , 19, sad 1977 data.                                             19f0 ad 19ff date.
rer Hrint so.ol  of prgteai  (gra=s rev day) -  Protein cantata of per capits            tsrticipatio= Rate (rerent) - tol, male, ssd fIherule-tPJricipatio= ao
aet sayply of food per dty.  Set if ap1y of oied in defi=ad as above. Re-                  activity tiara are  doap=ted at total, ysle, sad tamale l-ar fctre us
q=irtre=ts for all cn==cries established by TSDA provide for =inifrsr                    perctntagea of treta, malt and fP esle popilatio= of all ages respectively;
allatie of hO grams of total protein per day sad 20 grams of animal sad                 19f., 19ff, and 1979 dtes.  Those Jar based on ILl's psrticipation rates
p=lse protei=, at mhito  10 grams thould he animal protein.   These ss-gd-                reflecting ate-sea structure of phe populatin-  , aud lo=g rite tre=d.  d
srds are loeer that rhoet of 75 grmaruP ofotal protein a=d 23 grams at                   fat estitutes are from natio=al srourea.
a=iral pratein ta an average for atb  wrld, propased by PAO  in the Third              Ftonesic Depoodeury Satin - katio of populatioc under 1S acd 61 a=d oeve
World Pond Sarvey; 1961-65, 19ff and 197f data.                                          no  tie eotal labrt foroe.
*                                    Per capita aroteia i        IrpII fras  niria_ and pulse - Protein supply of food de-
Cildd  (ofe 1-4d ptordali.per Sae (par t1969ea1nd     -   a Id-oatf  par e..nsan  it..     PaCieAtas o  PrtindPtesiera C(ion  inrus  sad kid  P- itciva -byPi
ag roupti.  o-f years,. as_idrta in  Prhea ti age      d. groo d; for feed devaotigoka-        peaear   drirbs  Di p.rro, piorrat 10 prat, ad prrr_ 1. pirt_a
toies data drived from life tables; 19ff, 1970 ned 1979 darn.                               o    S ou  I
_ifte        _tancv at Bi6 h      - A    g      b                                                                          - E.f lif  i i  POVERTY TpARGT GtOUPS
lesSpeacat         Birth   (pesos -97  ad17datverage =amber o  years of lie ramait=lsg     Toe frllowving estiputas are vary approxi=ate nanastas of prverty levels,
abit;16, 19f sdrr 1979 dat, ht.16              0   .   9 d..and soLd hr ioorarol  t   ..d at   asneal  roi
Isgeat Mortalitr Satte (Per thaisasdl - Anmusal deaths of infaatasu=deraane year              a=timtheud AbaentoerPovertyEsliomaLanai (fdS Par cianiha) - orbto aud trota  -
af aes  per ShafeWade livre biths.o  ltnw  tt1ub                                             Abscorat ponerty income li -el is tire i=case lanai baelo  which oa=i=imol
APoces Ca Safe Haer  (ferreteittaPoru     n    eal   a=oat. and  sruta  - u f                ritironally adequate dirt pluI essenisl notofood reqairre=eit  it tot
meter supply (inc-ldes treated surface  daters or untreated bau t                                                           197tt9=nated  a fordable.
vate  auc  as hutfro=protcte  borhole, sping, an  santar  vela) s  fasi=ated Helatine Poverty Inrome level (0SS yet cayita1 - urban sand rutsl -
m pertau  oe ther tasa prattired r         pls  sring, ad s       r  bl)                    Rural relative poveny income tal is one-third of a-v1age per capitr
perrsrags vtahei resertir poslonvas.Is o  nobta ares aphio --!!a.
fon :tsi= or  :tandpo.t 1pcsted  .... .          tn a   ns-   n an =r anareaapn cyernal income of tie croatry.  frba= lanai is dtrived fram tie most
fistyeraid r  ado lvth iont   notimari thar- t 70  asters fo.     s t mtray ho             lavel with adjPun=e=t ftr highvr rant of lining it =rbam  aveas.
c`sierdias  ibalin    ofha  reasotablo ands  at1 that1  p..e..IT  ual  ra               faiman ,d tuoultyr-n Belt Agaoca. prnrrtn(aomaf level (pe.rcent) - urba
reaso.oble access voald imply that tie hoasamife  or members of the hasashold              sad rua ulatin=  ti poyalute (piersa  rutor) sic pre=at)-uco
do =ot have ro spend a disproportita-te pars  of  the  day Sr fetching the                  ad                                                                      o
family'a evaner needs.                                                                      P 
Atroee to acereta lispreal (ferrent of populatita -rotal. urban. a=d rural -
Number at peaple foetal, arban, and rural>  served by e rrata disposal as
perreptages tf their respective populatir=s. Fxtraet dispoesal say ipaluda
the nollertio= apd dispasdl, math or siehont treatmat  of ba.a eaceraita cIendriiFDatatos
end masse-wattr by matar-boren    ablteis or tby UsA uf  pit privias sad sipi.ttot 1oadf                                             donpoylti on Proj acti   r-p-rvisio
P ,p.latia. por Physician - Ppo=ltatun divided by tiuper ot practiaing physi-                                                                   Say 1991
cOsan qualified from a medical snhool at u=iverasity tonal.
Pe nlatio paer Straitg Person - Populatian divided  by  rumber of pracetiu=g
male end female gradnate =ur1as, parscical nurses, and assistant areIes.



-19-
-9                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNTSTA - FY-FRY'AT TRADE
Population: 6.4 million (mid-1080)
GNP per Capita:  $1,310 (1980)
Amount                                                      Annual Growth Rates
(million (ES                       Actual (at 1072 prices)          Actual: I            Projected (at 1970 prices)
Indicator                                at current prices)
1980                       1976     1977      1978      1979     1080       1981     lq82      1983     1984       1989
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                               2,282.9                      5.8    -5.0       16.0      10.1       3.4       1.5       0.2      0.°     10.8        9.S
Crude oil                                      1,168.5                    -15.0       1.0    14.0       91.3      11.0      -4.5      -7.8     _6.6      -1.-
Other primary                                    207.9                      21.8   -17.9       34.7     l0.n        .4        5.8      ?.7       2.A      2.5        2.5
Manufactures                                     006.5                      37.2    -1.5       21.9     14.8       1.6        7.3      6.9      6.4    713.9 /1  15.9 /2
Merchandise imports                               3,340.7                     11.6      30.4      5.5      11.7      1.9        6.4      6.0       4.1       S.6       8.7
Food                                             422.4                    -13.5      25.5      11.1     72.2       2.7        6.0      2.q       5.0      3.1        4.8
Petroleum                                        662.0                    -24.8      -8.5      -3.9     25.7       1.0       9.9      14.2    -3.5       36.9  /2  23.3 /2-
Machinery and equipment                           765.7                     19.1      2.4       9.2    -11.0      -1.3        3.P      6.5      6.1       5.7        5.4
Others                                         1,490.6                      31.2     36.0       2.9     14.1       3.2       6.6       3.4      6.1       6.1        S.9
Price Tndex                                    'rice Index  /3
PRICES
Export price index                                   -                    181.2   lq7.9    215.0    267.0   128.0          135.7   148.1    161.0   177.3         193.9
Import price index                                                        163.7    171.4   180.6   205.6   110.3           128.2   141.4   153.7    166.8         181.3
Terms of trade index (1972=100)                      -                    110.7    115.5    119.0    130.3   139.0         138.0    136.4    136.6   138.5        139.3
(1979=100)                                           -        -         -        -    1(06.7      105.9    104.7   1i04.8    106.3       106.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (0)                                     Average Annual Increase (9)
(at current prices)                                             (at constant prices)
1970     1975     1980      1981     1986      1091              1970-75      1975-80      1980-85      1981-R6       1086-91
Exports                                   100.0    100.0   100.0   1(0.0    100.0   100.0                      11.6          0.4          4.2           5.5           2.9
Crude oil                              24.5     41.8      51.1     40.3      35.n     29.0                23.2          3.0         -4.1         -3.8           -3.5
Other primary                          21.2     18.0       9.1      9.2       7.0      6.0                  6.7          2.0          3.2          3.0           3.0
Manufactures                           54.3     40.2      39.8     41.5      58.0    65.0                   6.2        14.3         11.2          12.0           5.5
Imports                                   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0                       13.4         12.4          5.8          5.0            5.1
Food                                   20.6     15.8      12.6     13.6      13.6     12.9                 8.9          7.5          4.2           4.?           4.4
Petroleum                               4.0      9.8      19.7     20.5      21.4     25.2                36.5          23.?         8.0           7.6           4.1
Machinery and Eauipment                23.0     30.2      22.8     21.8      20.7     19.5               1.7           8.3           5.7          5.7           4.4
Others                                 52.4     44.2      44.8     44.1      41.3     42.4                 10.6.       13.2           5.5          5.7           6.1
Share of Trade with                     Share of Trade with                          Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries 1%)                Developing Countries (X)                Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (2)
1970      1975       1980               197n      1975       1980                     1930      1975     1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                       62.6       48.6      74.1               23.4       41.4        n.a.                    14.0     10.0       n.a.
Imports                                       62.9      67.1       73.5               33.7       25.7       n.a.                      7.4      7.2      n.a.
/I  198U data at 1979 prices.
/2 Increase in refining capacity.
/3  For 1981-85, export and import price index is hosed on 1070=100.
ESRNTA rP 270
necember 0081



- 20 -
ANNIEX I
PTae 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIr INDTCATORS
population: 6.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  $1,310 (1980)
Amount                                                      Annual Growth Rates
(million us$                       Actual (at 197? prices)             Actual.jl        Projected  (at 197Q prices)
Indicator                                at current prices)
1980                       1976     1977      1978     1979        1Q80       1Q81      lq82     1983     1984      1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /2                        8,493.8                       7.4      4.3       8.3      7.6         7.3        6.4       6.4      A.6      6.5       6.3
Agriculture                                    1,211.4                       5.2    -7.5        8.9      0.5         8.6        5.0      5.0       4.9      4.0       4.0
Industry                                       2,579.8                       7.8      7.0      9.2    1l.5           7.6       6.8       7.0      8.0       8.0      7.5
Services                                       3,512.6                       5.4      5.8       7.7      8.2         6.7       6.5       6.1      6.5       6.5      6.4
Consumption                                      6,400.0                       8.8       q.5      9.3       7.1        6.9        6.7       R.8      6.9       5.0      6.6
Gross investment                                 2,345.7                      16.9      5.8       6.6      8.7         0.5        8.4      3.8       6.1      9.7       5.4
Exports of goods and NFS                         3,444.4                       9.6       5.6      9.1     18.8         S.4        4.?       3.1      3.7      9.7       8.Q
Imports of goods and NFS                         3,696.3                      19.3     16.5       9.6     14.4         3.9        6.4      6.0       4.3      9.6       8.5
Gross national product                           8,437.0                       6.0      4.8       9.2      8.0         6.3        6.5      6.5       6.5      6.4       6.2
Gross national savings                           2,037.0                      -6.3     -1.7      21.2     35.8         6.1        4.9     -2.n       S.t     12.9       9.9
PRICES
GDP deflator                                                                 137.7    151.4   158.6    174.2         190.3         -         -        -         -        -
Exchange rate                                                                  2.33     2.33      2.40     2.46        2.47        -         -        -         -        -
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)                                       Average Annual Tncrease (Z)
(at current prices)                                             (at constant prices)
1970       1975        1980        1986        1991              1970-75      197S-80      1980-89      1981-86       1986-Q1
Gross domestic product                    100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0                 8.5          7.0          6.5          6.5            5.8
Agriculture                            16.7        18.2       14.3        12.7        11.1                 8.8           1.0         4,           4.2           3.0
Industry                               20.5       27.1        29.5        31.2        32.8                 9.0          7.5          7.5           7.7           6.8
Serviies                              49.3        42.7        42.2        42.2        42.2                 8.7          6.0          6.s          6.9            9.8
Consumption                                84.8        75.5        70.0        70.8        71.8                 8.6          8.3          6.8          6.6           6.7
Gross investment                           19.7        29.3        28.3        27.2        25.4                11.8          6.8          5.7          5.4           4.3
Exports of goods and NFS                   21.9        31.3        38.5        35.9        33.3                12.5          9.7          5.7          6.s            5.1
Imports of goods and NFS                   26.4        36.1        41.4        40.3       38.7                 11.3         17.1          5.9          5.9           5.1
Gross national product                     97.9        99.9        99.5        99.3        97.9                 8.7          7.0          6.4          6.4            9.5
Net factor income                            2.1        0.1         0.5         0.7         1.9                  -            -            -            -              -
Gross national savings                     13.2        24.3        23.6        21.8        18.9                 7.5          5.9                       2.2
As T GDP
(at current prices)
1970       1975        1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                   23.5        25.7        27.2
Current expenditure                                               20.4        19.9       18.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                         3.1         5.9         8.6
Capital expenditure                                                9.5        10.8       14.8
Foreign financing                                                  S.0         1.8         1.3
1970-75          1975-80           1980-85           1981-86           1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                                                 8.7               7.0               6.4               6.3               5.5
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                      6.3               4.4               4.0               4.0              3.1
ICOR                                                                2.6               3.6               4.4               4.4              4.6
Marginal savings rate                                              30.5              17.6              20.1              22.8              8.2
Import elasticity                                                   1.24              1.81              0.91             0.91              0.89
/1 1980 data at 1979 prices.
/2 GDP at market prices and components, at factor cost.
EMENA mP 20
December 1581



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAI. AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Population: 6.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita: $1,120 (1979)
Actual                                                       Projected
1970       1975       1978       1979        1980             1981       1982       1083        1986       1001
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                    -104.5    -208.8    -599.7    -478.5    -296.5                -463.6    -718.9        874.7  -1,040.9  -2,728.0
Exports of goods & services                      355.6   1,529.2   2,090.6   2,913.9   3,825.1               4,363.4   4,877.S   5,45S.9   6,440.5  14,106.6
Imports of goods & services                      460.1   1,738.0   2,690.3   3,392.4   4,121.6               4,827.0   5,596.4   6,333.6   9,481.4  16,838.6
Net transfers /1                                     53.0       47.4       33.6        31.0       25.6             26.0       26.1        26.1       26.2       11.1
Current account balance                             -51.5    -161.4    -566.1    -447.5    -270.9                -437.6    -692.8    -848.6  -1,014.7  -2,716.7
Direct pr-vate investment                            25.5       50.2       91.1       164.8       95.0            200.0      250.0       200.0      490.0      724.7
MLT loans (net)                                      43.4      124.5      468.6       438.0      399.1            325.8      539.0       640.7      688.5   2,200.2
Official                                          41.7       102.9       84.8      318.8       436.0            379.2      433.3      375.3       345.3      379.5
Private                                             1.7       21.6       83.8      162.2       -36.9           -53.4       105.7      ?65.L       343.2   1,820.5
Other capital                                         2.0      -10.4       41.4      -22.6       -83.7               -           -          -          -           -
Change in reserves                                  -19.4       -2.9      -35.0    -132.7    -139.9               -90.6        96.2      -92.1    -121.8    -208.1
IDternational reserves                               15.4      362.2      269.9      402.3       542.2            632.8      728.9      821.1   1,214.6    2,134.3
Reserves as months of imports                         0.4        2.4         1.3        1.4        1.6              1.6         1.6        1.6        1.5         I.,
Actual                                                       Projec ted
1970       1975       1978       1979        1980             1081       1982       18           98        1901
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                      43.0       50.2        32.7       50.7       74.6             25.0        25.0       75.0       25.0        10.0
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                     86.8      193.3      556.7       746.1      652.6            635.1      865.7   1,037.S    1,490..7   3,358.9
Concessional                                         45.2      100.1      184.5       193.2      407.2            349.8      341.3       388.4      220.6      246.2
Bilateral                                         41.3        82.0      175.1      179.0       308.9            265.5      271.8      239.3       169.6      186.6
IDA                                                 2.9       12.6        1.8        0.2         1.5              1.1         .5          .2         -          -
Other multilateral                                  1.0        5.5        7.6       14.0       106.8             83.2       6q.0       4R.9        50.Q       99.6
Non-concessional                                     41.6       93.7      372.2       552.9      235.4            285.3      524.4       744.1   1,238.4   3,739.8
Private                                           31.1        51.3      321.3      431.9       122.2            112.8      308.2      499.5       8560.    3,111.8
Official export credits                             1.3       15.0        6.1         5.0       15.8             52.3       59.1       67.7       107.4      150.0
IBRD                                                9.2       26.9       33.0       55.4        62.3             98.1      134.1      149.6      149.R       186.6
Other multilateral                                   -          -        11.7       60.6        3S.1             22.1       73.n       77.3       1?9.2      291.4
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                      540.9   1,034.4   2,409.2   3,053.2   3,452.4               3,778.2   4,317.2   4,957.0   6,763.6  14,896.4
Official                                         367.0       858.6   1,583.4   1,864.2   2,300.2             2,679.4   3,112.7   3,488.0   4,472.0   6,490.2
IBRD                                            26.3      109.8       189.4      232.0       281.3           361.4       473.0      995.3      862.1   1,192.'
IDA                                             16.2       55.3        67.4       67.3       68.4             69.0        68.7       68.1       65.3        98.2
Other                                          224.5       693.5   1,326.6   1,564.9   1,950.5             2,249.0   2,971.0   2,824.6   3,546.5    5,239.7
Private                                          173.9       175.8      825.8   1,189.0   1,152.2            1,098.8   .1,204.5   1,470.0   7,280.6    8,406.?
Undisbursed debt                                    307.0      741.3   1,794.4   1,773.8   1,532.2              1,451.1    1,372.8   1,445.3   7,820.S   2,929.3
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                          63.1      101.3       214.5      311.6      460.4            522.2      545.3       635.4   1,129.2   2,657.2
Interest                                          17.8       35.0        96.1      159.5      206.9            212.9       218.6      743.6       358.7      871.3
Payments as % exports                                17.7        6.6       10.2         9.9       12.0             12.0       11.2        11.6       13.4       18.F
Payments as % GNP                                     4.4        2.4        3.6         4.3        4.4              4.3        4.2         4.4        4.9        4.1
Average interest rate of new Loans (1)                3.4        3.9         7.1        7.3        5.6              6.8         7.3        7.7        7.9         7.7
Official                                            2.7        3.3        4.4         5.6         -                -          -           -          -          -
Private                                             6.3        6.7        8.9       11.1          -                -          -           -          -          -
Average maturity of new Loans (years)                26.6       24.2       14.5        17.0       76.1             19.6       19.6        13.7       13.1        9.8
Official                                           31.2       27.1       21.0        20.1         -                -          -           -          -          -
private                                             9.2        9.1       10.0       10.1          -
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)
Amortization due within 5 years                                               54.8
Amortization due within 10 years                                              08.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (?)
Interest due within first year                                                 6.8
/1 Including grants.
EMFNA CP 2C
DecemOr 1981



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30,1981) a/
USt Million
Loan or                                                                                                     Amotint (less
Credit                                                                                                      Cancellation)
Number       Year             Borrower                          Purpose                            Bank       IDA c/       Undisbursed
TwenLy-seven Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                    187.49       60.47
238         1971      Republic of Tunisia                 Population                                          4.80           0.65
858         1972      Republic of Tunisia                 Tourism Infrastructure                  14.00                      0.10
937         1973      Republic of Tunisia                 Urban Planning and Public
Transportation                          11.00                      0.37
1042         1974      Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de CAFSA             Phosphate Development                    23.30                      0.87
1068         1974      Republic of Tunisia                 Irrigation Rehabilitation               12.20                      3.30
1088         1975      Republic of Tunisia                 Urban Sewerage                          28.00                      4.47
1155         1975      Republic of Tunisia                Third Education                           8.60                      6.67
1188         1975      Republic of Tunisia                 Second Highways                         28.00                     18.39
238-1        1976      Repuiblic of Tunisia                Poptilation                                          4.80          0.76
134o         1976      Banque Nationale de Tunisie         Second Agricultural Credit              12.00                      2.42
1355         1976      Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz            Second Power                             t4.50                      0.10
1431         1977      Republic ot Tunisia                 Irrigation Development                  42.0(0                    15.37
1445         1977      SONEDE                              Fourth Water SuippLy                    21.00                     13.53
1504         L977      BDET                                Development Finance Company             30.00                      3.99
1505         1977      RepubLic of Tunisia                 Small-Scale Industrial Project           5.00                      2.62
1601         1978      Republic of Tunisia                 Rural Roads (Third Highways)            32.00                     28.16
1675         L979      RepubLic of Tuinisia                Second lUrban Sewerage                  26.50                     25.80
1702         1979      Societe Nationale
d'Exploitation d'Eau               Fifth Water Supply                       25.00                     14.66
1705         1979      Repuhlic of Tunisia                 Second Ulrban Development               19.00                     18.54
1740         1979      Repuiblic of Tunisia                Second Fisheries                        28.50                     26.83
1796         1980      Republic of Tunisia                 Southern Irrigation                     25.00                     24.84
1797         1980      Office des Ports Nationaux          Third Port                              42.50                     25.24
1841         1980      Republic of Tunisia                 Fourth Highways                         36.50                     36.50
1864         1980      Societe Tunisienne de
I'Electricite et du Gaz            Second Natural Gas Pipeline              37.00                     37.00
1885         1980      Banque Nationale de Tunisie         Third Agricultural Credit               30.00                     29.25
1961         1981      Republic of Tunisia                 Fourth Education                        26.00                     26.00
19b9 b/      1981      Republic of Tunisia                 SmaLl-Scale Industry Development        30.00                     30.00
1997         1981      Republic of Tunisia                 Northwest Rural Development             24.00                     24.00
2003 b/      1981      Republic of Tunisia                 Third Power                             41.50                     41.50
2005         1981      Republic of Tunisia                 itealth and Population                  12.50                     12.50
2012 8/      1981      Republic of Tunisia                 Textile Rehabilitation                 _18.60      _18.60
TOTAL                                                                      891.69      70.07        493.52
Of which has been repaid                                                    88.26       5.75
Total now outstanding                                                      803.43      64.32
Amount Sold                                14.33
of which has been repaid                  12.40                             1.94
Total now held by Bank and IDA c/                                          801.49      64.32
Total Undisbujrsed                                                         492.11       1.41         493.52
a/  This list does not include three loans totalling $108.0 million for Grain Storage, Fifth Highway (Ruiral Roads) and
Electrical and Mechanical Industries projects approved by the Board since October 1, 1981.
b/  Not yet effective
*           c/  Prior to exchange adjustment



_ 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of   9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISTA (as of September 30, 1981)
Amount in US$ Million
Year        Obligator                              Type of Business           Loan   Eauity   Total
1962   NPK Engrais                                 Fertilizers                 2.0      1.5       3.9
1966   Societd Nationale d' Investissement        Development Finance Co.               0.6      0.6
1969   COFIT (Tourism)                            Development Finance Co.   8.n         2.2      10.2
1970   Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                          Development Finance ro.              0.6       n 0.6
1973   Societe Touristinue & Hoteliere
RYM SA                                    Tourism                      1.6     0.3       1.9
1975   Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                            Tourism                     2.S      0.7       3.2
1974   Industries Chimiques du Fluor              Chemicals                             0.6      0.6
1978   BDET                                       Development Finance Co.               1.2       1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                               14.1      7.7      21.8
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                                   7.9     1.9       c.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                                       6.2     5.8      12.0
Total undisbursed                                                               0.0       0.0



- 24 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:      Population Project: US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1:    Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
(NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The present closing date will not be extended. The undisbursed loan
balance on March 26, 1982 was $0.110 million. Payments are being made on
amounts committed prior to the closing date.
Ln. 858:       Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan of September
28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project is completed and the undisbursed loan balance ($96,940)
was cancelled on November 24, 1981.
Ln. 937:       Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432:      US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October
5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The present closing date will not be extended. The undisbursed
loan balance on March 26, 1982 was $0.366 million. Payments are being made on
amounts committed prior to the closing date.
Ln. 1042:      Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is completed and the undisbursed loan balance ($105,930)
was cancelled on February 26, 1982.
Ln. 1068:      Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974;  Date of Effectiveness:  September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage
and road networks in the Medjerda area continues to be satisfactory. However,
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under- standing
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
farmers have not fully used the available facilities due to limited
distribution hours, lack of on-farm development and poor extension. Land
reform is progressing and is expected to be completed by the end of 1983.
In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation investments have been satisfactorily
completed. Credit demand for bas ilns and storage facilities was less than
originally expected, and a grading and packing station was not built because
of lack of capacity on the part of the cooperative which was to construct
and manage it, and because drought in the area reduced production. Land
consolidation in Nebhana is expected to be completed by mid-1982, and
production of off-season vegetables under greeenhouses is encouraging.
Ln. 1088;       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1982.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity (ONAS). As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and
project completion is expected by mid-1982. One of its major benefits will
be release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now
has been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by untreated
sewerage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a land-use
plan for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in progress.
Ln. 1155:      Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily and as planned in the
revised schedule. There was a slight delay of about three months in
construction, but the procurement of furniture and equipment is running
ahead of schedule. The final bid documents for the extension of the five
teacher training colleges have been received and are now under awarding
procedures. All major covenants have been met.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway have been completed.
Construction is almost complete on the Hammamet-Korba road in Nabeul. The



- 26 -                               ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
remaining construction works on other roads are well-advanced. The Sfax
by-pass under Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of expropriation
has been deleted from the project. All studies under the project have been
completed and their results are being implemented.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
About 81 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will have to be financed by the
Government or by the Third Agricultural Credit project. Categories 2 and 4
(subloans to commercial farmers and agro-industrial investors) are fully
disbursed. Category 1 (subloans to small and medium farmers) is expected to
be fully disbursed by the end of 1982. Disbursements for Category 3
(subloans to farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations) have begun. Construction of irrigation infrastructure is in
progress and plantation development is also progressing satisfactorily.
However, drilling of artesian wells is suffering some delays.
Ln. 1355:       Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1981.
The project is completed and the undisbursed loan balance
($93,349.98) was cancelled on October 20, 1981.
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation con-
tinues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule to
catch the 1981/82 flood season. The new railroad is now completed and in
commercial service. After some initial delays, construction of the
Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding more rapidly, and
completion by end 1983 seems possible. A 6 km section was commissioned in
June 1981, permitting the supply of additional water to Tunis during the
peak consumption period. First irrigation of the 1,400 ha Testour perimeter
is expected in April 1982.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the project
is now expected to be completed by end 1982, about six months behind the
appraisal schedule.



ANNEX II
- 27-
Page 6 of 9
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de Dgveloppement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
Both loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the least
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high
labor intensity or export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the
commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing
has been overcome. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian
authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program of Tunisian and
foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to the needs of
SSI, as agreed under the project. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).
Ln. 1601:      Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of E-ffectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eight provinces.
Progress on the complementary agricultural component, after an initial
delay, is now proceeding satisfactorily. The Government wishes to expand
the project to cover three additional provinces. This is under
consideration.
Ln. 1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is procee-
ding. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln. 1702:       Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1.979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule.  SONEDE has already approved eight urban and
seventeen rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $28.5 million.
Procurement for the project is now completed and works under all project
contracts are proceeding rapidly.  Laying of the piping system of the
production facilities included in the project has been completed.
Ln. 1705:      Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The physical works of the project both in Tunis and Sfax are progressing
satisfactorily, with about 35% of works completed.  Technical studies for



- 28 -                              ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
the solid waste collection and disposal component is progressing well. The
housing component is progressing slowly and experiencing cost overruns due
to technical difficulties associated with the sites in Jebel Lahmar and to
slow acquisition of sites in Saida Manoubia and in Cimer Nord.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
All contracts for port infrastructure have been awarded and
construction is well underway at most sites and general progress is
satisfactory.  Detailed design for the boat bulls has been completed and
procurement is underway. Bid awards for boat engines have been made.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The implementation of the project is proceeding according to
schedule. A contract has been awarded for the sinking of the first 13 deep
wells of the project and borings are underway at several sites. A contract
has been awarded for supply of asbestos-cement pipes to be used in
rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure in existing oases.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
The physical execution of the project at La Goulette is now
progressing well.  Dredging of the channel and of the new basin area has
been completed. The reclamation at the new port area behind the project
quay line is under way. The casting yard for concrete quay caissons has
become operational. As a result of initial delays in starting the dredging
operations, the civil works are about 5 months behind schedule. At Sfax,
the contracts for civil works were awarded in July 1980. Dredging started
in October 1980 but works were delayed on the landward side until the
shipyards and the fishing port were removed to their new locations in late
February 1981. Further problems have developed in connection with the
innovative casting technique: heated concrete blocks showed cracks through
testings and the causes are being investigated by the contractor which has
deferred further casting. This will add to the 9 months delay from which
civil works in Sfax have already suffered. Supervision is working
satisfactorily in both ports. Training programs for port workers have been
prepared.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness; November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well; the 1981 construction
program is underway.   Elements of the 1982 program for rehabilitation and
maintenance have been discussed and agreed with the Government, and the 1982
action plan is being implemented.



- 29 -                              ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981;  Date of
Effectiveness: December 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The original project scope has been modified because of
uncertainties related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has
been redesigned to utilize royalty gas as a substitute for premium liquid
fuel products.
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:  June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium and long-term credit to small and medium farmers,
production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and
agro-industries. Disbursements are expected to start immediately for those
purposes where Agricultural Credit II is already overcommitted (commercial
farmers, producer cooperatives and agro-industries).
Ln. 1961:       Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is entirely devoted to
skilled worker training and apprenticeship, is proceeding satisfactorily,
with assistance from the ILO. The first phase of construction has already
been tendered. All the final lists of furniture and equipment have been
completed and the programs reviewed. Technical assistance to aid in
reinforcement of the management, logistics and programs of the network of
vocational centers is under negotiation.
Ln. 1969:       Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April
30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the
appraisal capacity of the Investment Promotion Agency.
Ln. 1997:      Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region by
concentrating on the establishment of institutions which could implement the



-30 -                                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
program, and the extension, research, credit, and livestock development
services. The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil
conservation and forestry activities, together with productive
infrastructure works.
Ln. 2003:       Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting about 990
villages in 15 Governorates to the national network and improving the supply
of electricity in about 60 towns.
Ln. 2005:      Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of July
15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train project personnel.
Ln. 2012:      Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 31,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will assist the Government in implementing the first
phase of a rehabilitation and modernization program for the public sector
textile industry. It would expand and improve production so as to enhance
competitiveness in export markets.
Ln. 2052:       Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of
Cereals; and lay the groundwork for further modernization of the system of
collection, storage and transport of domestic grain.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
TUNISIA
SIXTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:             14 months (August 1980 to October 1981)
(b) The agency which prepared
the project:                        Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE)
(c) Project first identified
by Bank:                            March 1981
(d) Date of Bank appraisal mission:   October/November 1981
(e) Negotiations completed:             March 19, 1982
(f) Planned date of loan
effectiveness:                      August 5, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that
(a) SONEDE will:
(i)   follow criteria and procedures for selection of subprojects which
have been agreed upon with the Bank (para. 46);
(ii)  make credit available to customers for house connections at an
average interest rate of the local rate on credit available to SONEDE
and the Bank rate (para. 47);
(iii) contribute to its planned investments in each year starting from
1982 at least 20 percent of average annual estimated capital
expenditures during that year and the following two years from its
revenues (excluding customers contributions); this cash-generation
covenant replaces the rate-of-return covenant in previous Loan
Agreements between SONEDE and the Bank (para. 51);
(iv)  achieve net revenues of at least 1.5 times of debt service require-
ments (para. 51);
(v)   monitor the project on the basis of agreed indicators (para. 56).
(b)   SONEDE and the Government will take the necessary steps to ensure that:
(i)   Government departments and agencies will pay their water bills
within a reasonable period after billing (para. 41); and
(ii) SONEDE will achieve its financial objectives (paras. 50 and 51).



8s            TUNISIA              4                                                                      19
NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MAJOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS                                                   BIZERTE
- (, -~ :oR.z Jebel
-37°                                                                                                                                                -                o r - . a. ,., 37_
( .-(Tb,           TUNIS        _  M.TeeMine0/
Ta Annaba            S            BEJA                                /         :      - 
i  -/tde lBo /mn D,ha
-JEINDOUB ,                                     .        /                  3\I- /
is Corrnrrfrora               ometrdraourr~                              .             ZAGHOUAN  r              NABEUL
)u LE KEF      >       -                                 \      -        ,     ..
5  f /   f                X                        ,     :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nfid-ville
<t  / ;1 < Sers -<-~~~~S-                               ILINA- 1 \  7,_U.
36                               __ '         ' _1        //         \    ,;/         ~ ~ '    -                Jss   \                                              36°-
LLJ                                                                                                                M S    ;;  >\AHDIA
(>    Sbe        bel                                            -Ea
I35'                                                                                                                                                                 350
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
thedeyl                   GAi/
-34°                                    g- he             -       -                                       Ghon-och
\AES              -       . Houm r Souk
X 00;t / t -- - - - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El K.nt.,c 
Th,, nrp ts been p-n- ed by re  --;
Wnood bH,k0 tsaff eo f-sivefy or-
rOe osnoer.,ncoosemd Of .t t_ d_                                                                                :d                  -    :,      Zr
rhe repprt to e,nroh,rsarfed                                     -Do_
The d---- -onts   d andh -
do nor otinfy on roe pant of rh          . _\                                                                          N:=-           _    -J  
World bank and 'toafa.S a-,-
,pdtzeeo- eeptteu                                                                                             MEDENIu;R            e_'         ' t
snv tartofy p        an-en tement                                     ,
00 aooaraco-e of soh b-ondane-8 Existing    Proaect
N. N,, YUGOSLAV4A                   ~~~Pipelines
' R AN=CGSLAA                                                           Reservoirs
.. O; /; ,    r\=,O        j          - 33            '    2       Pumping  Slatrons                                                                  .
ALB4I~~~1                fl~     Well Fields                                                                 -    I
SPAI                  '1 _                     '                               Darns                                      TotoFoume_
T;ss     r \z  f,;  >.>                        Chotts
T niesr .           .aGREEC E-"  Averoge Annuol Rainfall, in mm.
MALTA _o><~  ,  StMain  Roads                                                      /
777                         M-T TW;j b FALTP                       Railway5
' TUNIA                                        *     International Arrports
r i  i   4 t !E t A  +   ,<d:                Lt   ~~~~~~~~Parts                                                                              'I)
iInPernotonol Boundaries
tA LiG E R'                                                                                                            - t    ;i =  ; J t  cRmd.   
A [GE RI AX        =  )   4            5            0      20      40      60      80     100
L I EY A                               KILOMETERS
9'                                   10'tx X   .iat   ii ti    05 =:   /      L  I  B   Y   A
_  L):   * :;Y   M; iS  7  =   B    i 91   00                                 10o         To Jenaserr        /      5!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 j_



