LOAN NUMBER 2134 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Sixth Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE
DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
Dated         e       L            , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2134 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     Rf I                    , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE
DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) by agreement (hereinafter called the Guarantee Agree-
ment) of even date herewith between the Republic of Tunisia
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agre.ment accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-project" means a specific water supply project
included in Part A of the Project as described in Schedule 2;
(b) "Dinar" and the sign "DT" mean the currency of the
Guarantor;


﻿- 2 -
(c) "Fourth Water Supply Project Loan Agreement" means the
loan agreement (1445 TUN, Fourth Water Supply Project) between the
Bank and,the Borrower dated July 5, 1977; and
(d) "Fifth Water Supply Project Loan Agreement" means the
loan agreement (1702 TUN, Fifth Water Supply Project) between the
Bank and the Borrower dated May 31, 1979.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirty million five hundred thousand dollars ($30,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to four hundred
fifty thousand seven hundred thirty-nine dollars ($450,739). The
fee shall be payable in such currency or currencies as the
Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have
received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount required for the full payment of the
fee in the currency or currencies specified for the purpose.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from.
time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on thq
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from tim
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering, financial and public utility practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall select Sub-projects to be carried out under
Part A of the Project in accordance with the selection criteria
set forth in paragraph A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish the Bank, for each Sub-
project selected to be carried out under Part A of the Project,
prior to inviting bids for goods or works in accordance with
Schedule 4 to this Agreement for such Sub-project, with an
appraisal report prepared in accordance with the outline set forth
in paragraph B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and with such
other information as the Bank shall request.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof


﻿-4-
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Prcmptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as the Bank may agree, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-5-
(e) The Borrower shall enabLe the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall provide credit to rural
and low-income urban customers under Part B of the Project on
terms satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter alia:
(i) interest at a rate which shall be equal to the average between
the rate for local medium-term credits available to the Borrower
and 11.6%; and (ii) repayment within a period not exceeding five
(5) years.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
a.fairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appro-
priate business, financial and public utility practices and
to that end shall employ at all times qualified and experienced
management and staff.   The Borrower shall consult with the Bank
prior to making any material modification to its organizational or
administrative structure.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful *in the conduct of its
business.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and properties, and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering
and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall obtain title to all goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances.
(d) The Borrower shall not, without the prior approval of
the Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its properties or assets required for the efficient operation of
its business and undertakings and shall not, without the prior
consent of the Guarantor and the Bank, transfer or assign any of
its rights for the distribution of water in the Guarantor's
territories.
Section 4.04. The Borrower:
(a) shall furnish to the Bank for its comments, until the
completion of the Project, a quarterly report on the progress of
the execution of the Project;
(b) shall monitor the attainment of the objectives of
the Project on the basis of a system of key indicators and
targets (including technical, financial and administrative
criteria) acceptable to the Bank and shall furnish, starting
June, 1983, by June 30 of each year until the completion of the
Project and during the five years immediately succeeding such
completion, a report in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request showing the results of its operations in terms of
such key indicators and targets; and
(c) shall promptly take all such remedial action as the
Bank may reasonably request to ensure that the targets referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section are met.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial


﻿-7-
condition, including, without limitation to the foregoing, separ-
ate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and to enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (a) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (b) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinion by said auditors: (A) on the separate accounts
referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement; and (B) in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
5.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it and withdrawn from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning said accounts, financial statements,
records and expenditures, and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien


﻿-8-
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, other than for money borrowed
to finance the Project, unless its net revenues for the fiscal
year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater,
shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service require-
ment for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt including the debt
to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of the
Borrower including debt for the service of which the Borrower is
responsible in accordance with Article 22 of Law No. 63-22 of the
Guarantor dated July 2, 1968, maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt.
(c) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of the Borrower's rates in
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were
not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all operating and administrative
expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but before provision
covering depreciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirements" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt.
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,


﻿-9-
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.05. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, for each of its fiscal
years, starting in 1982, take all measures as shall be necessary
to enable it to earn revenues sufficient to cover, in addition to
operating expenses (excluding depreciation), debt service require-
ments and increases in working capital other than cash, not less
than twenty per cent (20%) of the annual average of the Borrower's
estimated capital expenditures to be incurred during each such
fiscal year and the two (2) following fiscal years.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "revenues" shall mean income from water
sales and from the provision of related services,
and miscellaneous income including income from
non-operating sources, but excluding customer
contributions.
(ii) The term "operating expenses" shall mean expenses
for operation, maintenance and administration and
related expenses.
(iii) The term "debt service requirements" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(iv) The term "working capital other than cash" means
the excess of current assets (accounts receivable,
inventories and current maturities of long term
advances) less current liabilities (accounts
payable, deposits payable and short term ioans).
(v) The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed assets.
Section 5.06. Before November 30 of each fiscal year,
starting in 1982, the Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts
prepared to the satisfaction of the Bank, review the adequacy of
its rates in order to adjust, promptly after November 30 of each


﻿- 10 -
fiscal year, its rates to meet the revenue requirements laid down
in Section 5.05 of this Agreement; and the Borrower shall provide
the Bank and the Guarantor with a copy of its review report and
the proposed rate adju3tments by November 30 of each fiscal year,
starting in 1982.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that any provision of the Guar-
antor's Law No. 68-22, dated July 2, 1968 (as amended by Law No.
72-37, dated April 27, 1972, and by Law No. 74-73, dated August 3,
1974) establishing the Borrower, shall have been amended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the operation or financial condition of the Borrower or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date Aviv'%3  23  1    , is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Amendments to the Fourth Water
Supply Project Loan Agreement and
Fifth Water Supply Project Loan Agreement
Section 8.01. The parties to this Agreement hereby agree
that the provisions of Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of the Fourth Water
Supply Project Loan Agreement and of Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of the
Fifth Water Supply Project Loan Agreement shall be deleted and
that the provisions of Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of this Agreement
shall be applicable to the Fourth Water Supply Project Loan Agree-
ment and the Fifth Water Supply Project Loan Agreement with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth therein.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Recorstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Socifte Nationale d'Exploitation
et de Distribution des Eaux
23, Rue J. Nehru
Tunis
Tunisia
Cable address:                       Telex:
SONEDE                              12262
Tunis                               TN SONEDE
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 12 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By JS) eRc>3ec  Ck~ow 4wM'%e
Regional Vice President
Europe Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE
DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) carried out            4,800,000        40%
by contractors
(b) carried out            1,000,000        40%
through force
account
(2) Pipes, equipment            8,250,000        100% of foreign
and material                                expenditures
and 60% of local
expenditures
(3) Credits to                 14,000,000        50%
residential
consumers
(4) Fee                           450,739        Amount due
(5) Unallocated                 1,999,261
TOTAL      30,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for


﻿- 14 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expend-
itures prior to the date of this Agreement; except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$2,000,000 may be made in respect of Category 3 on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 15 -
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or ifmiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are: (i) to expand on a nation-
wide basis the water supply services to Tunisia's rural popula-
tion; (ii) to encourage the connection to the piped water supply
system, through the extension of credit facilities, of rural and
urban low-income population; and (iii) to strengthen the Bor-
rower's project preparation and project appraisal capability and
its involvement in rural areas.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Sub-projects for the expansion and improvement of the exist-
ing water supply system and the construction of new water supply
systems, in about 150 rural villages and semi-urban centers.
Part B:
Provision of credit facilities to the Borrower's rural and
urban low-income customers in order to assist such customers in
financing the cost of installing individual house connections and
related works.
Part C:
Acquisition and installation of about 85,000 water meters for
the house connections referred to in Part B.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1986
through   November 1, 1998                  1,175,000
On May 1, 1999                                   1,125,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                 10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                 11.60%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For gooe; and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national com-1,titive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Identical or similar items shall, to the extent possible, be
consolidated in a single invitation for the purpose of bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Tunisia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Republic of Tunisia
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In erder to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 21 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of Par: A of this Schedule.
(i) contracts for pipes, equipment and materials estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 each may be awarded
after local advertising and on the basis of competitive bidding
procedures of the Borrower acceptable to the Bank, provided,
however, that the aggregate amount of all contracts to be so
awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000; and (ii)
contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $800,000 each, may be awarded after local advertising and
on the basis of competitive bidding procedures of the Borrower
acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that the aggregate
amount of all contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed the
equivalent of $14,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $800,000 or more, and all contracts for
pipes, materials and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 22 -
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the an,lysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other intormT iion as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it      --rmines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contractors
Civil works under Part A of the Project in isolated villages
may, with the Bank's approval, be carried out through force


﻿- 23 -
account by the Borrower or by public services on behalf of the
Borrower on the basis of reimbursement by the Borrower of services
rendered by such public services; provided, however, that the
aggregate amount of civil works so carried out shall not exceed
the equivalent of $2,500,000.


﻿- 24-
SCHEDULE 5
Selection criteria for Sub-projects;
Appraisal of Sub-projects
A.   Selection criteria
1.   The selection of Sub-projects under Part A of the Project
shall be made in accordance with the following criteria:
(i) the marginal cost of water for the village under con-
sideration has to be less than $1.50 equivalent per m2
in 1981 values;
(ii) the total estimated cost per Sub-project shall not ex-
ceed $1.5 million equivalent in 1981 values;
(iii) the proposed Sub-project shall be the least-cost solu-
tion based on the life cycle of the project;
(iv) sufficient water resources to satisfy the demand for the
life cycle of the Sub-project shall have been identi-
fied; and
(v) local cost financing shall have been secured through
inclusion of the Sub-project in the Borrower's invest-
ment budget.
2.   The marginal cost as mentioned in criterion A (i) above
shall be the average incremental cost (AIC) of water and is based
on the economic cost of supplying additional water to meet the
growth of the demand over the next 5 to 10 years. The AIC is used
as an approximation of the long run incremental cost. The AIC is
calculated by dividing the present value of all incremental
capital, operating and other costs by the present value of the
incremental consumption, made possible by the added facilities.
The present value for both numerator and denominator will be
determined, using the opportunity cost of capital at a discount
rate of 10%. AIC is defined as:


﻿- 25 -
N
X Cn                        -        S
AIC =       0            (1+r)n                  (1+r)g
N
Qn
0            (1+r)n
Cn = incremental expenditure in a year for capital, operations
and other cost, in economic terms, i.e., excluding taxes and
customs duties.
S = salvage value.
Qn =  incremental volume of water consumed in a year as a result
of the Project.
N =   lifespan of Sub-project assumed to be 40 years.
r = the opportunity cost of capital at a discount rate of 10%.
n = runs from year 0 to year N.
B.   Outiiae ior Sub-project appraisal reports
1.   For each Sub-project the Borrower shall prepare an appraisal
report which shall include the following aspects:
-~ the physical and economic characteristics of the center
or rural village where the Sub-project shall be imple-
mented, the populations recorded in past censuses and the
forecast of future populations i! the Sub-project area;
-    the condition of the existing water supply facilities,
the estimation of per capita consumption, water consumed
and number of connections in previous years, and the
quality of the services;
-    the volumes of water consumed for various types of usage
(domestic, industrial, commercial, public, tourism), a
comparison of these volumes with similar ones in other
parts of the country;


﻿- 26 -
-    the determination of the maximum day consumption and the
maximum hour consumption;
-    an estimate of the volume of water unaccounted for in
the transmission pipelines and the distribution network,
the proposed measures to reduce water losses and any
consumption judged to be excessive;
-    the forecast of future consumption and number of connect-
ions; the evaluation of the percentage of population
-served per house connection and per public standpipe;
-    the conditions of the production facilities, the physi-
cal, chemical and biologic characteristics of the water,
the future demand that can be covered by the existing
resources and the measures required to meet the demand
in the year 2000;
-    an investigation of the feasible alternatives to supply
the Sub-project area with water, and the ways of improv-
ing and expanding the distribution network;
-    a calculation- of the estimated costs of the selected
alternatives, and economic comparison of these alterna-
tives;
-    a justification of the proposed scheme, detailed cost
estimates and the phasing of the investment program;
-    a calculation of future operating expenses, including
depreciation of fixed assets and interest payment on
debts, evaluation of staff needs, management system and
relations with regional offices and headquarters;
-    a forecast of water sales, related revenues and other
revenues;
-    a calculation of the marginal cost of water for the
Sub-project;
-    a comparison of the Sub-project data with the selection
criteria; and
-    conclusions and recommendations.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /       day of . A  , 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


