Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C,  /^S-/ C114,
Rqport No. 5271b-CA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 5, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Iis dcument hs a restriced disibudon and may be ued by recipints ody in the perfonnance o
their oficia dte  Its contents may not othrwise be didosed witbout World Bank auhorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Yuan (Y)
$1.00            =   Y 2.80 (as of January 1985)
Y 1.00           =   $0.36
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAPRC -   Audit Administration of the People's Republic
of China
CNTIC -   China National Technical Import Corporation
MOE - Ministry of Education
MOF - Ministry of Finance
SOE - Statement of Expenditure
SPC - State Planning Commission



CHINA                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................ i-ii
1. ENGINEERING AND ECONOMICS/FINANCE EDUCATION .......................                                       1
Overview  ......................................................                                   1
Level and Structure of Enrollment ..............................    2
Quality  .......................................................                                   3
Efficiency in Planning and Management ..........................    6
Government's Subsector Objectives, Strategy and Program ........    7
Bank Group Participation in the Sector and the
Proposed Project .............................................    8
2.  THE PROJECT .......................................................    9
Objectives and Scope ...........................................    9
Action Program:
Enrollment Level and Structure Adjustment ....................    11
Quality Improvement ....................  12
Curricula ..................................................   12
Teaching Force .............................................   12
Experimental Work ..........................................   13
Academic Support Services ..................................   13
Planning and Management  .....................................                                 13
Manpower Development Planning ..............................   13
Facilities Planning and Maintenance ........................    14
Resource Utilization ..................                                                     14
Monitoring and Evaluation ..................................   14
Studies ......................................................    15
Management and Implementation ..................................   15
Status of Project Preparation ..................................   16
Investment Program and Financing ...............................    17
Procurement ....................................................    18
Disbursement ..........1........... 19
Accounts and Audit .............................................   20
Benefits and Risks .............................................   20
3. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................   21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in February/March
1984 comprising S.M. Asher (mission leader), S.Z. Sung (technical educator),
R. Greenkorn (consultant in engineering education), and Y. Onitsuka
(consultant in economics/finance education); and a postappraisal mission in
August/September 1984 by Asher and Sung.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 1 Enrollment in Engineering and Economics/Finance, 1983 and 1990    3
Table 2 Procurement Arrangements .....................................   18
ANNEXES
1. University Output and Requirements by Field, 1981-83 .............   23
2. Middle and High-Level Manpower by Selected Agency, 1983 ..........   24
3. Government's Projected Requirements for University Graduates
by Field, 1985-90 ..............................................   25
4. Teachers by Rank and Years of Higher Education, 1983 .............   26
5. Teachers by Rank and Age Group, 1983 .............................   27
6. Teachers by Rank and Years of Service, 1983 ......................   28
7. Expansion of University Enrollment, 1983-90 ......................   29
8. Planned Allocation of 500 Departments for Development by
Major Field and Specialty, 1985-94 .............................   30
9. Draft Letter of Policy ...........................................   31
10. Program of Action on Policy and Institutional Development ........   34
11. Eligibility Criteria for Subproject Institutions .................   37
12. Guidelines for Allocation of Credit Proceeds .....................   38
13. Program for Staff Development in Engineering and
Economics/Finance 1985-90 ......................................   40
14. Procedures and Criteria for Fellowship 'wards ....................   41
15. Performance and Quantitative Targets .............................   43
16. Responsibility for Management and Implementation .................   44
17. Criteria for Appraisal and Approval of National Programs .........   45
18. Criteria for Appraisal and Approval of Subprojects ...............   48
19. Subsector Investment Program by National and Institutional
(Subproject) Program 1985-89 ...................................   51
20.  Subsector Investment Program by Category of Expenditure, 1985-89    52
21. Subsector Investment Program by National and Institutional
(Subproject) Program and Year 1985/89 .........................   53
22. Overall Financing Plan by Category of Expenditure and
Source of Fund, 1985-89 ........................................   54
23. Disbursement Forecast ............................................   55
24. Comparative Education Indicators .................................   56
25. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ........   58
CHARTS
1. Structure of Education System ....................................   59
2. Organization of MOE ..............................................   60
3. Organization of the Foreign Investment and Loan Office, MOE ......   61
4. Procedures for Generating and Processing Subprojects .............   62
5. Schedule of Implementation .......................................   63
MAP
China - Second University Development Project (IBRD 18550)



CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data (1983)
Population and Labor Force
Total              Agri.           Ind.       Other   Growth Rate
(1978-82)
Population           1,025 mln           -         -          -          1.3%
Labor Force (1982)  100% (445 mln)   72%          13%         15%        2.7%
Occupational Structure
of Labor (%) (1982)
Prof'l              Clerks/    Service    Agri.        Factory
tech'l   Sr. Adm.  comerce   workers    workers   workers Total
5.1      1.6        3.1         2.2      72.0         16.0   100.0
Education
Size of sector                     Primary   Secondary         Higher       Total
Grades                           1-6         7-12           13-16         1-16
Enrollments (m,n) /a            140.0        45.0            1.7          186.7
Gross enrollment ratio (%)       110          30              2             -
Higher Education Subsector
Teaching staff
No. of            Undergrad ('000)              Postgrad. ('000)         ('000)
Insts.            Ttl. eng. eco/fin.            Ttl. eng. eco/fin. Ttl. eng. eco/fin.
Universities/
colleges           536    929  370    49       37   15      1.5        _    _      _
Specialized
colleges /b        269    278   49    22        -    -       -         -    -      -
Total           805  1,207  419    71       37   15      1.5     303   85       8
Expenditure on Education
Total educ. expenditure as % of GNP                                   3.1%
Gov't educ. expenditure as % of total government exp.                 7.1%
Gov't educ. capital exp. as % of total gov't capital exp.             4.5%
Gov't educ. recurrent exp. as % of total gov't recurrent exp.    8.1%
Distribution of public recurrent exp. on education
primary         -                    38%
secondary       -                    40%
higher          -                    22%
/a  In formal education.
/b  2-3 years of study.



CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                People's Republic of China
Amount:                  SDR 148 million ($145 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Project
Description:           As the first phase of a ten-year program (1985-94) to
build up high-level technical and managerial manpower
required for national development, the proposed second
university development project aims to promote policy
and institutional changes related to the engineering
and economics/finance education subsector. Objectives
include: relatively faster growth of enrollment in
economics/finance and postgraduate education;
broadening of present over-specialized curricula;
accelerated in-service training and promotion of
younger faculty; strengthening of experimental work
and academic support services such as computer and
audio-visual centers and libraries; improvement in
longer-term manpower planning, facilities planning and
university resource utilization; and introduction of
project monitoring and evaluation. In support of the
program, the project would help finanice: (a) equipment
and materials including books and journals related to
engineering and economics/finance for about 35 sub-
project universities; and (b) technical assistance and
equipment for five national programs comprising
specialist services, fellowships, staff exchange,
studies, and training centers.
By 1990 the annual supply of engineering and
economics/finance graduates is expected to increase to
180,000 and 50,000, respectively, which would meet the
needs of central and provincial government agencies
for technical and managerial manpower. The graduates
would have received an improved quality of education
under more efficient management. It is also expected
that the capability of the Ministry of Education to
systematically process and implement projects would
improve as a result of the changes to be adopted under
the proposed project. The most important risk arises



- ii -
from the inherent difficulty of coordinating
implementation among many subproject institutions
managed by some 20 ministries. In order to reduce
this risk, a central coordinating committee, com-
prising representatives of the State Planning Commis-
sion, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Edu-
cation, has been created. Also, a working group loca-
ted in the Ministry of Education and responsible for
day-to-day project implementation has been formed
consisting of representatives of selected
universities.
Program Cost (July 1985 - June 1989):
Local     Foreign    Total
…---- $ million -------
National programs                          59          24          83
Engineering subprojects                   329        242          571
Economics/finance subprojects              92         53          145
Base Cost                        480         319          799
Contingencies
Physical                              48         32           80
Price                                170        113          283
Total Cost /a                    698         464        1,162
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
--------- $ million ---------
Government                           698         319        1,017
IDA                                    -         145          145
Total                           698          464        1,162
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year               1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
…__-___---------- $ million ----------------
Annual           1.5    27.5    43.5    36.5    29.0       7.0
Cumulative       1.5    29.0    72.5   109.0   138.0   145.0
Rate of Return: N.A.
/a Excludes indirect taxes and duties. Imported equipment, books and
journals would be exempt from duties.



CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSIIY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. ENGINEERING AND ECONOMICS/FINANCE EDUCATION
Overview
1.        At the end of the Cultural Revolution in 1976, China set forth a
program of modernization in four priority sectors, agriculture, industry,
national defense, and science and technology. The aim of the program was to
reach the stage of development of advanced industrialized countries by the
year 2000. It soon became apparent, however, that this goal would be
unrealistic, given the deficiencies in China's economic system. Realizing
that change in the system was a prerequisite to attaining the goal, the
Government introduced in 1979 a program of adjustment, reform, consolidation
and improvement of the national economy for the interim period in the 1980s.
The present Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85) and the forthcoming Seventh Five-
Year Plan (1986-90) will pursue this program to establish the foundation for
further development in the 1990s.
2.        The adjustments already initiated combined with the introduction of
various incentive measures and a declining population growth rate (1.3% p.a.
during 1978-82) have resulted in a rapid annual increase in real per capita
income of 4.8% in urban areas and about 10% in rural areas.  To sustain
continued rapid economic growth, China will have to address the problem of
serious shortages of well-trained technical and managerial manpower to plan
and execute development programs, in particular, in the priority sectors of
energy, transport, agriculture and industry.
3.        Higher education, the primary source of high-level manpower, is pro-
vided by comprehensive universities, and by colleges and institutes which spe-
cialize in certain fields (e.g., agriculture, medicine, engineering). Educa-
tion policy is formulated by the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist
Party in cooperation with the State Council. The Ministry of Education (MOE)
is responsible for overall administration of the education system in the
country, including higher education (Chart 1). The Ministry prepares annual
and longer-term plans, and coordinates higher education through control of
curricula, textbooks and recurrent budgets. Day-to-day management of higher
education institutions is the responsibility of a variety of ministries of the
central government and provincial/municipal governments. The institutional
structure of higher education has changed little since the 1950s. While pri-
mary and secondary education have expanded rapidly since 1949, higher educa-
tion has progressed at a slower rate partly due to political events which
virtually halted its development during the years 1966-76.  A recent ansclysis
of higher education by the Bank has also pointed out a number of structural,
qualitative and managerial problems requiring policy adjustments.



-2-
Level and Structure of Enrollment
4.        There are two dimensions to the manpower constraint:  the low level
of overall university enrollment and the imbalance of enrollment structure.
The information submitted by central and provincial government agencies for
the annual planning and allocation of university intake and output indicates
that shortages of professional and technical manpower exist in all fields.
Between 1981 and 1983, the overall supply of university graduates could meet
only about half of the requirements (Annex 1).
5.        While the development of the economy calls for the expansion of the
university sector as a whole, the structure of enrollment needs adjustment to
meet the changing pattern of manpower requirements. The imbalance between
manpower supply and requirements has been particularly acute in engineering
and economics/finance which are essential for technological and managerial
improvements of the economy. In 1983, engineering and economics/finance
output could meet only 38% and 16% of the needs respectively, the lowest among
major disciplines. As a result of serious manpower shortages in these two
fields, central agencies in charge of priority industries and banking and
financing services have to function at suboptimal levels with underqualified
personnel. For example, the Ministries of Machine Industry, Electronic
Industry, Metallurgical Industry, Environmental Protection, Chemical Industry,
Railway, Transport, Shipping Industry, Finance, and External Economics and
Trade were only able to obtain university graduates for less than 30% of their
requirements in 1983 (Annex 2). The Government estimates that the present
level of output will have to grow by about 90% for engineering and over 400%
for economics/finance to meet the projected requirements between 1986 and 1990
(Annex 3).
6.        The university system is further constrained by the limited size of
its postgraduate programs which are the basic sources of researchers, univer-
sity teachers and specialized technical personnel. Thus, while the enrollment
ratios of undergraduate to postgraduate programs in advanced countries range
from about 10:1 to 5:1, the ratio in China is as high as 20:1. Therefore,
along with engineering and economics/finance, expansion of postgraduate
education is also of particular urgency (Table 1).



-3-
Table 1: ENROLLMENT IN ENGINEERING AND ECONOMICS/FINANCE
1983 and 1990
Enrollment       % of Total
('000)           Enrollment
1983     1990       1983    1990
Undergraduate
Engineering                        419      713        35       31
Economics/Finance                   71      178          6       8
Postgraduate
Engineering                          16      50         4        7
Economics/Finance                    5       14         7        8
Source: SAR Annex 7
Quality
7.        To increase the potential effectiveness and productivity of
graduates in the fields of engineering and economics/finance, several areas
need to be strengthened: curricula, control of standards, teachers, experi-
mental work, and academic support services.
8.        Curricula.  The present curricula have the following main deficien-
cies: (a) they are too rigid due to overspecialization; and (b) courses
essential for China's modernization are unavailable due to the past general
neglect of social sciences. Basic adjustments in the curricula are necessary
to support c!t ges in China's development strategy by reducing the numbers of
specialties - and specialized courses as well as introducing new courses to
broaden the curricula.
9.        There are 11 major fields within the university system:  engineer-
ing, agriculture, forestry, medicine, education, humanities, science,
euonomics/finance, politics, physical education, and arts. Among these
fields, there are about 800 specialties in which students are enrolled from
their first year. Economics/finance and engineering are generally grouped
into eight to ten faculties cach and one faculty consists of a few departments
providing specialties. Under each specialty a number of courses are conduc-
ted. Class hours in four years of undergraduate education total about
2,500.  Approximately 40-45% of them are allocated to basic technical courses,
15-20% to specialized technical and the remaining 35-45% to general courses.
The segmentation of the curricula is a result of the Soviet influence in the
1950s and aims to produce manpower for highly specialized occupations under
1/   A specialty is a field of study.



the planned socialist economy. Ministries and commissions organized by
narrowly grouped economic sectors have established their own universities to
supply most of the personnel needed for specific jobs in their own agencies.
Due to their dominant concern with short-term manpower requirements, the cur-
ricula are oriented towards the formation of vocational skills rather than
broad understanding of principles and analytical skills. The narrow special-
ization at undergraduate level is therefore limited in its capacity to train
manpower with flexibility and mobility in the labor market.
10.       While there are too many specialties, the coverage of courses is
inadequate. In particular, economics/finance received low priority during the
Cultural Revolution and is inadequate to serve the economic system which is
undergoing reform and adjustment (para. 1). The Government plans to improve
efficiency in economic planning and management through incentives to stimulate
priority industries, and move towards an open economy. These modernization
programs require corresponding adjustments in training programs by introducing
such courses as pricing policy, industrial management, international finance,
and information processing.
11.       Minimum Standards.  There is no system to ensure the minimum quality
of university education. Since the university system is expanding rapidly and
the financial responsibility for the operation of provincial universities is
being transferred as part of the decentralization policy from the central
government to the provinces, it is important to create a review system of
university quality.
12.       An initial action was taken in 1981 as part of a process to author-
ize universities to grant postgraduate degrees in ten disciplines, philosophy,
economics, law, education, literature, history, natural sciences, engineering,
agriculture and medicine. The National Commission on Academic Degrees under
the State Council reviews reports submitted by universities which wish to
introduce new postgraduate programs. The Commission reviews applications in
light of standards set for doctorate and master's degrees, in particular, spe-
cialties proposed, staff supervisory capacity, research programs, and facili-
ties for experiments. Between 1981 and 1983, 192 universities and 425
research institutes have been approved to confer doctorate and master's
degrees. However, no system of periodic assessment of university quality,
both postgraduate and undergraduate, exists to ensure that standards are
satisfactorily implemented by universities.
13.       Teachers.  There are three principal issues concerning university
faculty: (a) their knowledge and technical skills are in general outdated;
(b) some teachers who were recruited during the Cultural Revolution are not
suited to teaching; and (c) there are few experts in the new courses required
for modernization. To help rectify these problems, it will be necessary to
accelerate expansion of in-country and overseas pre- and in-service training,
and exchange of Chinese and foreign scholars, and to enforce retirement age
and transfer policies.
14.       China lost a decade of progress from 1966 to 1976 when university
education was seriously hurt. As a result no young people were fully trained
to succeed senior faculty members. When the national entrance examination was



-5-
reintroduced in 1977 and universities reopened, China was left with serious
deficiencies in university education and research and in the teaching force.
Leading professors and associate professors are both experienced and well-
qualified in terms of educational background (Annex 4). They are, however,
aged and constitute only 11% of the total faculty since no promotions took
place between 1966 and 1976. About 84% of professors are over 60 years old
and about 80% of associate professors are over 50 years old (Annex 5) with 98%
of them having served universities longer than 20 years (Annex 6). All these
factors point to the need to build up a strong, younger university faculty.
15.       Another effect of the Cultural Revolution is that a small group of
teachers (about 10% of the total) recruited during that period are not suited
to teaching. They were recruited based on their political qualifications and
not on their academic excellence. Finally, the neglect of university educa-
tion has left China with a severe shortage of experts who are urgently needed
to develop new courses required for modernization.
16.       Experimental Work.  The implementation of the engineering curriculum
is impaired by inadequate experimental work in terms of both the content of
experiments and the availability of equipment. To solve these problems there
must be change in emphasis in experiments and provision of modern and
appropriate equipment.
17.       First, reflecting the eharacteristics of the present engineering
curriculum (para. 9), experiments are presently designed to illustrate
relatively complex and specialized problems to serve the particular
requirements of industries. As a result, each experiment stands alone.
Instead, it is necessary to give priority to experiments which demonstrate
basic principles and mechanisms learned in the course work and make them part
of a design experience. Second, due to the inappropriateness or simply the
absence of experimental equipment, only 60% of advanced and specialized
experiments of the engineering curriculum, aiid 69% of undergraduate and basic
experiments are performed. Equipment for undergraduate courses is mostly old
and obsolete, or too complex to demonstrate principles and single mecha-
nisms.  Advanced education and research suffer from the lack of modern
experimental equipment as well as testing and measuring equipment.
18.       Academic Support Services.  Academic support services such as compu-
ter centers, libraries and audio-visual centers are severely limited. To
increase the effect of Instruction and research, these support services need
to be strengthened.
19.      Universities have a serious shortage of computers which underwent
rapid development and innovation during the period of China's isolation.
Working with a computer is not only an efficient way to solve problems, it
also causes students to deal with a problem from the perspective of a system
rather than a component. However, the use of computers in undergraduate
courses is almost non-existent. Similarly, universities have to restore
library collections which are now out-of-date and insufficient, and modernize
libraries with the use of computerized information systems. The need to
strengthen libraries is particularly urgent since with the present allocation
of foreign exchange to book purchase, a teacher can hardly afford one book per



-6-
year. A major university known for its relatively high standards in social
sciences received a budget of $19,000 in 1983 for foreign books and journals
for the entire faculty of about 1,300. In addition, audio-visual aids and
equipment are needed to improve foreign language teaching and to reach a
greater number of students through the use of television programs.
Efficiency in Planning and Management
20.       Universities remain inefficient in terms of planning and management
of their physical and human resources. It is only recently that China has
begun to give priority to the improvement of university planning and manage-
merit techniques. Improvements are needed in manpower planning, student admuis-
sions, physical facilities planning, resource utilization, and management
organization of higher education institutions. In addition, the establishment
of a system to monitor and evaluate the performance of development projects is
needed to improve decision-making.
21.       Manpower Planning  Present manpower planning is deficient in its
time span and methodology. Manpower requirements are estimated on a short-
term (annual) basis as part of the allocation process of graduates. The
annual planning process starts with enterprises estimating their own require-
ments for workers based on their output targets for the next year. Their
estimates are put forward to the State Planning Commission (SPC) through
different levels of agencies. These estimates by individual enterprises are
partial without information on the plans of other -nterprise in the sector and
cover too short a period to be useful for education planning.
22.       Facilities Planning. The existing planning methods for physical
facilities are too generous and standardized.  The average area per engineer-
ing student (35 sq m) is about 50% larger than the corresponding area in other
countries. The Construction Bureau of the Ministry of Education (HOE) has set
design and cost standards for major disciplines (e.g., engineering, social
sciences, medicine) and for different types and sizes of facilities such as
classrooms, dormitories and libraries. The Production and Supply Bureau of
MOE is responsible for laboratory standards and equipment supply.  Unit
capital and recurrent costs are reviewed every five years. The last review
took place in 1978. The 1983 review was delayed and is being carried out
now. Investment programs for civil works and equipment are, however, prepared
by simply applying a set of unit costs to the incremental increase in enroll-
ment by a target year. Inventories of physical facilities and their utiliza-
tion by a more refined breakdown of items should be prepared and incorporated
for improved facilities planning.
23.       Resource Utilization.  The utilization of human and physical
resources remains low. There are on average only four students per teacher in
engineering and six students per teacher in social sciences. The utilization
rates of libraries and laboratories are also low. Their opening hours per
week range from 60 to 80 hours for libraries and 20 to 50 hours for laborato-
ries. These rates are lower than the average rates in many other countries
where libraries and laboratories are open over 100 and 70 hours weekly..
Techniques to efficiently manage resources have to be improved.



-7-
24.       Management Organization of Universities.  Following the Soviet
model, ministries have set up their own training institutions to meet their
personnel requirement (para. 9). As a result, the administrative responsi-
bility of universities is compartmentalized. Of the 805 higher education
institutions 65% are administered by the central government and the rest by
local governments. Among central agencies, MOE administers about 15% and
other technical ministries manage the remaining 85% of institutions, resulting
in the diseconomu of small size (an average of 1,600 enrolled in an institu-
tion) as well as possible redundancy. The present management organization of
universities needs to be reviewed.
25.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  China has embarked on a number of devel-
opment projects in recent years aimed at the reform and expansion of the
university system.   In 1981, MOE established a Foreign Investment and Loan
Office for the execution of projects with external financial assistance
(Charts 2 and 3). The overall capacity for project planning and execution has
improved significantly with the support of Chinese and foreign specialists.
However, a system to monitor implementation and evaluate results is needed to
assist in the decision-making process.
Government's Oblectives, Strategy and Program
26.       Oblectives.  As an integral element of modernization efforts, the
Government's objectives address the major issues of the engineering and
economics/finance subsector as presented above, namely, reforms and adjust-
ments in the enrollment size and structure, quality and efficiency.
27.       First, the Government aims to increase undergraduate enrollment at
an average rate of about 10% p.a. between 1983 and 1990 (Annex 7). Within the
overall expansion, the Government plans to expand economics/finance at a
faster rate (14% p.a.) in support of development needs (para. 5). Engineering
will grow at 8% p.a. As a result, the percentage share of economics/finance
will rise to about 7% in 1990 from 6% in 1983 and that of engineering will
decline to about 31% from 35%. These rates of growth in the two disciplines
are expected to meet high-level technical and managerial manpower needs as
foreseen by central and provincial governments (Annex 3). Postgraduate
enrollments would also be expanded at a rate of 17% p.a. Second, the
Government will improve the quality of engineering and economics/finance
education in terms of curricula, teachers, experimental work and academic
support services. The curricula will be broadened by reducing the number of
specialties and specialized technical courses while introducing new courses
necessary for modernization. The quality of teachers will be revitalized by
lowering their average age, transferring staff unsuitable for teaching to
other occupations, and upgrading teachers' educational and professional quali-
fications so that all lecturers and above will have a minimum of master's
degree or equivalent. Improvements will be made to modernize laboratories,
workshops, comput^r centers, libraries and audio-visual centers. Third, the
Government aims to increase efficiency through improvement in planning and
management related to manpower development, the university entrance
examination system, physical facilities, resource utilization, project
monitoring and evaluation. It is also addressing the diseconomy of size of
individual institutions by emphasizing expansion of enrollment in existing
institutions rather than creation of new ones.



- 8 -
28.       Strategy.  The Government faces two major constraints to achieving
the subsector objectives: financing, in particular local budgets for dormi-
tory construction and foreign exchange for advanced equipment, books and jour-
nals, and technical assistance; and qualified staff to teach and research in
modern fields of technology and social sciences. In view of these financial
and staff constraints, the Government has put forward a strategy which calls
for a selective and phased approach. It will attach priority to engineering
and economics/finance as the graduates of these disciplines are most in demand
for national development (para. 5). Within these two disciplines, the Govern-
ment h s selected 120 specialties as priority areas (Annex 8). these special-
ties 1' will be strengthened in about 500 selected departments 2  in
universities in three phases between 1985 and 1994. The first phase will
strengthen these priority specialties in about 150 departments in universities
managed by the central government. The second phase will develop these
specialties in another 150 departments in universities managed by provincial
governments. The third phase will improve the same specialties in another
200 departments in universities under both central and local governments.
29.       Program.  Based on a set of targets for qualitative and quantitative
increase, MOE has prepared an investment program for the subsector. Within
the time slice of July 1985 to June 1989 the total expenditure for the
engineering and economics/finance subsector is estimated to be in the order of
Y 2.2 billion at 1985 price with an annual average of about Y 0.4 billion.
The projected development expenditures consist of about 55% for civil works,
34% for equipment and 11% for technical assistance.
Bank Group Participation in the Education Sector
and the Proposed P'roject
30.       A basic economic report (No. 3391-CHA) which devoted a major section
to education development was prepared in June 1981. Among its conclusions it
stated that China's reconstruction programs would call for: (a) the revital-
ization of higher education as the most urgent task for the provision of
scientific and technical manpower; (b) the development of vocational education
and training for the supply of trained skilled workers; and (c) the strength-
ening of pre- and in-service teacher training for the improvement of primary
and secondary school teachers. In line with these recommendations, the Bank
Group has given first priority in the education sector to assisting higher
education. A University Development Project (Ln. 2021/Cr. 1167-CHA, $200 mil-
lion) was approved in 1981 and is assisting major national universities in the
fields of science and technology. Although this project was the first Bank
operation in China, it is being implemented ahead of schedule and its
objectives are being met. The Bank Group has also extended two loans/credits
totaling $144 million for the development of professional agricultural
manpower in 1982 and 1984 (Cr. 1297-CHA, Ln. 2444/Cr. 1500-CHA), a credit of
1/   A few specialties in law are included.
2/   A department is one of several or more units within a faculty.
Departments are grouped by specialty.



$85 million in 1983 to the development of polytechnics and a television
university (Cr. 1411-CHA), and a credit of $85 million in 1984 to the improve-
ments of rural health and medical education (Cr.1472-CHA). The Polytech-
nics/TV University project is helping China to establish a new system of two
to three-year technical education to produce technicians and strengthen the TV
university to reach a greater number of youths. In terms of specific assi-
stance the ongoing projects are supporting not only the provision of instruc-
tional/research materials and equipment, but also the improvement of faculty
members and university management to raise university quality and to achieve
quantitative gains. Implementation of all five projects is proceeding well.
31.       Experience gained to date in previous projects and a continuous
sector dialogue on matters concerning high-level manpower development stress
two important lessons. First, many university issues stem from systemic
factors related to policies and management practices. Bank lending to the
university sector should therefore be increasingly designed to serve as an
instrument in the Bank's continuing dialogue with the Government on university
policy and reform. Second, the experience under the previous University
Development Project points out the importance of timely establishment of
implementation advisory groups to help ensure the success of a project, in
particular for policy objectives concerning fellowship training and equipment
purchase. To address these findings, the proposed project is designed to be a
step toward policy-focused lending in order to provide the high-level tech-
nical and managerial manpower needed for economic development. The project
would assist the Government with the acceleration of existing, as well as
formulation and implementation of new, policy and institutional changes
related to engineering and economics/finance education in the areas of
enrollment, curricula, faculty and management. In addition, two groups of
implementation advisory experts for the proposed project have been formed at
an advanced stage of project implementation: A Chinese review commission and
an international advisory panel.
2. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
32.       The proposed project would support the first phase (July 1985 - June
1989) of the Government's ten-year program (1985-1994) to increase high-level
technical and managerial manpower through adjustments in enrollment, quality
and efficiency related to engineering and economics/finance education
(paras. 26-29).
33.       To achieve this goal, the project would implement a program of
action on policy and institutional changes which would address three basic
issues of the subsector: low level and imbalanced structure of enrollment,
inadequate quality, and inefficient planning and management. The Association
has received from MOE a signed letter of policy and the program of action
describing the Government's objectives and planned course of action (Annexes 9
and 10). The program is summarized as follows:



- 10 -
Enrollment Level and Structure Adjustment
(i) expand engineering, economics/finance and postgraduate educa-
tion programs at differential growth rates to adjust the
imbalance of the overall university enrollment structure in
response to development needs; and
(ii) give priority in resource allocation to faculties which have
relatively stronger implementation and leadership capacity in
engineering and economics/finance, to create leading centers
for training personnel for and from other institutions and
related industries;
Quality Improvement
(i) broaden undergraduate curricula in engineering and
economics/finance by reducing the number of specialties,
increasing the proportion of general and basic courses, and
introducing new courses to produce graduates who could meet
the demands emerging from the modernization program;
(ii) revitalize the teaching force in engineering and economics/
finance by lowering the average age through enforcement of a
retirement policy, transferring unsuitable staff to non-
teaching jobs through the implementation of a displacement
policy, accelerating in-service training as well as
postgraduate education as the source for new teachers, and
promoting outstanding young teachers as replacement for
retired and displaced teachers;
(iii)  improve experimental/research work as part of the required
engineering and economics/finance curricula by modernizing
existing laboratories and workshops and building new ones
with appropriate equipment; and
(iv) strengthen academic support services by improving libraries,
computer centers, and audio-visual centers.
Planning and Management Development
(i) increase the longer-term manpower development planning
capability by the Planning and Research Office within the
MOE;
(ii) improve planning and maintenance of facilities by introducing
new procedures;
(iii)  increase the student/staff ratio, utilization rates
of classrooms, laboratories and libraries, and the proportion
of commuting students; and



- 11 -
(iv) establish a central unit within the MOE and local units
within subproject universities to monitor and evaluate
education investments.
Studies
(i)   a study to introduce a monitoring and evaluation system for
maintaining minimum university standards. The new system
would be tested in a few subproject universities in engineer-
ing and economics/finance;
(ii)   a study of the existing National Unified Entrance Examination
to increase its value in predicting academic success of
students while maintaining the satisfactory distribution of
students' geographical and socio-economic backgrounds; and
(iii)   a study of the management of the overall system of higher
education and of individual institutions to provide
alternative system management and to improve institutional
management including facilities and equipment planning and
maintenance.
34.       To assist in the above policy and institutional development objec-
tives, the proposed project would contain: (a) about 35 subprojects with
financing of mainly instructional and research materials, equipment, and civil
works including furniture to meet the needs of individual universities; and
(b) about five national programs with financing of primarily technical assist-
ance to meet the needs of the whole of the engineering and economics/finance
subsector.
Action Program
Enrollment Level and Structure Adlustment
35.       Concentration on Engineering and Economics/Finance.  The project
would concentrate on the expansion of engineering and economics/finance in
support of the most acute manpower needs (para. 5). The enrollment expansion
of these disciplines would be guided by policy objectives which call for an
average annual enrollment increases between 1983 and 1990 in engineering and
economics/finance of 8% and 14% respectively (para. 27). Postgraduate enroll-
ment in both these fields would grow at about 17% p.a. (Annex 7). At these
rates of growth, the proportion of engineering students would change from 35%
at the undergraduate level and 4% at the postgraduate level to 31% and 7% over
the period 1983-90. The proportion of economics/finance students would change
from 6% at the undergraduate level and 7% at the postgraduate level to 8% at
both levels over the same period. The proposed project would include about 35
subprojects involving financing for civil works and equipment required for the
expansion of individual institutions. The eligibility criteria for subpro-
jects (Annex 11) and the guidelines for allocation of credit proceeds would
ensure the implementation of project objectives (Annex 12). The criteria and
guidelines aim to ensure, for example, the inclusion of only engineering and
economics/finance in subprojects, minimum growth rates of postgraduate



- 12 -
enrollment in those disciplines, minimum quality of recipient institutions,
ceiling for the allocation of funds to engineering and economics/finance,
maximum and minimum size of subprojects, balance between equipment and
technical assistance, and balance between basic and advanced equipment.
36.       Development of Selected Departments.  In support of the Government's
strategy to make effective use of limited resources (para. 28), the proposed
project would assist in the development of about 120 engineering and about 30
economics/finance departments within the subproject institutions (Annex 8).
The eligibility criteria would assure the selection of departments with
relatively stronger academic and research programs supported by qualified
faculty and physical plants (Annex 11).
Quality Improvement
37.       Curricula.  To supply graduates with increased adaptability for
modernization, a policy would be implemented to broaden the existing over-
specialized curricula (para. 9). The number of specialties in engineering and
economics/finance would be reduced from 500 and 50 in 1983 to 200 and 30 by
1987, respectively. The composition of curricula would also become less
specialized by decreasing the proportion of specialized technical courses from
15% to 10% in engineering and from 20% to 15% in economics/finance during the
period 1983-87. On the other hand, new courses would be introduced to meet
the necessity from the increasingly dynamic development process.
38.       Teaching Force.  The Government's policies would include the revita-
lization of engineering and economics/finance faculty through several
measures: implementation of the retirement age policy, transfer of unsuitable
staff to nonteaching jobs, accelerated in-service training, accelerated promo-
tion of promising young teachers and exchange of personnel between universi-
ties and between universities and industries (Annex 13). As a result of the
retirement policy which sets forth normal retirement at 60 for male and 55 for
female teachers, on average 2.5% of the faculty are expected to withdraw from
the teaching force annually. By 1995 almost all existing professors and asso-
ciate professors will be retired. About the same percentage of teachers would
annually be transferred to other jobs, resulting in the eventual redeployment
of about 10% of the existing teachers.
39.       To enhance the quality of teachers and to replace those retired or
transferred with younger staff, the proposed project would assist in two types
of in-service training: a program to upgrade educational and professional
qualifications of teachers below 45 years old; and a program to create the
main teaching force to fill senior positions. Under the management of the
Cadre Development Department of MOE, about 3% of teachers would annually
receive in-service training in the country. Out of the 805 institutions of
higher education, 90 have been selected as centers for in-service training
with an emphasis on new subject areas. Programs would vary from six-month to
one-year certificate courses for teaching assistants and seminars and work-
shops for lecturers and associate professors. The program for the creation of
the main teaching force would build up about 3,000 core teachers by 1990.  The
MOE has already selected them from among about 400 institutions, 75% of which
are under the central government. Of these 3,000, half would be sent abroad



- 13 -
for further study and research mostly in newly established fields (e.g.,
industrial engineering, materials engineering, economic management, law).
Another half would be trained at some of the 90 selected centers where foreign
specialists would annually be invited to assist in newly introduced areas.
4o.       The project would include financing for overseas fellowships and
foreign specialist services in engineering and economics/finance. The project
would also finance equipment for printing and copying for two training centers
which would prepare materials necessary for in-service training to be
established at Beijing Normal University in the north and at Wuhan University
in the south. The guidelines for the allocations of the credit fund would
ensure a minimum of 15% of credit proceeds to be utilized for technical assis-
tance. Of technical assistance about 80% would be allocated to overseas
fellowships and 20% to foreign specialist services. The distribution between
engineering and economics/finance would be approximately 4 to 1 reflecting the
enrollment size of the disciplines. The distribution of man-years for
doctoral, mazter's and short-term fellowships would be 3:1:1. Fellowships
under the project would be awarded in accordance with selection criteria and
procedures agreed with the Association (Annex 14).
41.       Experimental Work.  To help strengthen the engineering curriculum,
the proposed project would improve the quality of experimental and research
work (para. 17). The project would provide needed equipment at the subproject
universities for both undergraduate practical training and graduate training
and research related to priority specialties (Annex 8). By 1987 and 1990,
subproject universities would be able to perform 78% and 83% of basic experi-
ments and 67% and 82% of specialized experiments, respectively. The labora-
tory facilities would be either renovated or newly built. The guidelines for
allocation of credit proceeds agreed with the Government would ensure that
more than 50% of the proceeds would be used for equipment on basic
experimental work.
42.       Academic Support Services.  The proposed project would improve
academic support services in subproject universities such as computer centers.
audio-visual centers and libraries (para. 19). The project would assist
identified universities in equipping computer centers with suitable size
computers and necessary micrc and personal computers, and in developing the
use of audio-visual aids to teaching in language courses and production of TV
programs to reach students in remote areas. The project would also increase
and improve the subproject universities' collections of libraries which are
generally inadequate, particularly in social sciences. Computers and software
programs procured would be compatible with those within a university or
locality to increase computer flexibility and power once networking becomes
technicaily feasible.
Planning and Management
43.       Manpower Development Planning.  To improve the longer-term planning
of manpower and enrollment requirements (para. 21), the project would streng-
then the Planning and Research Office created within the MOE in 1983. The
project would support the Office with specialist services and fellowships in
relevant areas of economics, education and statistics to improve the data base
and planning methodology.



- 14 -
44.       Facilities Planning and Maintenance.  To improve facilities and
equipment planning, the project would finance specialist services in the areas
of architecture and equipment planning. The architect would suggest ways to
achieve the efficiency objectives stated in the criteria for appraisal and
approval of subprojects, and the equipment specialist would ensure that equip-
ment procurement would be coordinated with curricula revision. The first
phase of equipment procurement would include equipment mainly for basic
training. The second phase of equipment procurement would include equipment
for advanced training and research and would take place after curriculum
revision and review by the International Advisory Panel.
45.       Based on initial experience and the outcome of a study on
depreciation allowances which would be part of the larger study to be
conducted under the project (para.33), the MOE would suggest that the
Government establish a depreciation allowance system for the replacement of
unserviceable and obsolete items. it is intended that the system would first
be applied to subproject universities in the engineering and economics/finance
subsector. The system is then expected to be gradually extended to the entire
subsector and to higher education in a time span compatible with the
government's financial capability.
46.       Resource Utilization.  To increase physical and human resource
utilization (para. 23), the proposed project would improve three types of
efficiency-related coefficients. First, the expansion of teachers and stu-
dents would reduce the teacher:student ratio from the present 1:4 in engineer-
ing and 1:6 in economics/finance, to 1:6 and 1:7 in 1987, and to 1:7 and 1:10
in 1990, respectively. Second, the utilization of laboratories and libraries
would increase as they received more equipment and books. The average weekly
hours would increase from the current 33 hours for laboratories and 68 hours
for libraries, to 36 hours and 75 hours in 1987, and to 42 hours and 90 hours
in 1990, respectively. Third, the proportion of students who commute to
universities would be increased from the present 3% of all university stu-
dents, to 5% in 1987, and to 10% in 1990. It is expected that by 1990 the
adjustments in these coefficients would lower the unit capital costs for civil
works by approximately 10%. To assist in the administration of university
resources, the project would finance specialist services in such areas as
scheduling of classes and laboratory work, management of support services, and
personnel and budget planning.
47.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would introduce a system to
monitor and evaluate policy objectives and the course of action for output
increase, quality improvement, and planning and management development. The
system would consist of a central unit within the MOE, and a local unit at
each of the subproject universities. The central unit has been created under
a steering committee of five members representing MOE's Departments I and II
of Higher Education, the Department of Planning and Finance, the Foreign
Investment and Loan Office, and the Education Bureau of the State Planning
Commission. The unit itself consists of two professionals and one administra-
tive staff. Subproject units have also been established within the office of
the president or the vice president of subprojact universities. in charge of
subproject development and implementation at the institutional level. These
local units would monitor progress made under the action program (Annex 10)



- 15 -
and submit relevant data to the central unit. The central unit would then
prepare an overall annual progress report on the project to serve as a base
for the annual review of policy targets (Annex 15) by the Government and the
Association. The outcome of this meeting would include agreed targets for the
next year of implementation. The project would finance specialist services to
help establish detailed procedures and methodology for monitoring and
evaluation. The monitoring and evaluation units would be maintained until
such date as may be agreed between the Government and the Association.
Studies
48.       In order to provide an information base for the Government to
further develop policy objectives and an implementation strategy, the project
would support three studies (para. 33(d)). The studies would be carried out
in accordance with terms of reference and schedules agreed with the
Association, and a summary of the findings of the studies would be promptly
prepared and furnished to the Association when they are available.
Management and Implementation         -
49.       Management.  The subprojects and national programs under the
proposed project would be prepared, appraised and implemented by the
Government, specifically by MOE (Annex 16), with selective review by
Association staff. Each national program and subproject would be processed
according to the agreed procedures, criteria and guidelines (Chart 4, Annexes
11, 12, 17 and 18). This management arrangement would be feasible given MOE's
strong past performance shown in the first University Development Project
(Credit 1167/Loan 2021-CHA) and the TV University and Polytechnic Project
(Credit 1411-CHA). This approach would help further build up the management
capacity of MOE, other ministries and universities and contribute to
institutional development in China. It would also be advantageous because of
the large number of institutions geographically dispersed throughout the
country and the wide coverage of specialties.
50.       Responsible Organizations.  Overall responsibility for coordination
and decision-making on matters related to the proposed project would be with a
Central Coordinating Committee which has already been established. This
Committee is composed of representatives of the State Planning Commission
(SPC), the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the MOE. Day-to-day implementation
work and the liaison between the Government and the Association would be the
responsibility of the MOE's Foreign Investment and Loan Office (Charts 2,
3). Specific responsibilities of MOE's departments and other related agencies
would be as follows: the Planning and Finance Department would provide the
direction of development based on the Sixth and Seventh Five-Year Development
Plans; the Foreign Investment and Loan Office would manage the physical aspect
of the proposed project and procurement of goods and services with the
assistance of the China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC); the two
Departments of Higher Education within MOE would be responsible for all
educational aspects of higher education including engineering and
economics/finance; the Depantment of Postgraduate Education would be in charge
of matters related to postgraduate courses and research; science and
technology related matters are under the responsibility of the Department of



- 16 -
Science and Technology; the Cadre Development Department would be responsible
for staff development; studies under the proposed project would be supervised
by the Department of Planning and Finance and/or the Department of Student
Affairs; the Department of Capital Construction would assist in civil works;
the Supply and Production Bureau would assist in equipment procurement,
delivery, installation, spare parts and maintenance; a working group composed
of members from seven MOE departments I/ and assisted by staff seconded from
project universities would provide the secretariat for the Central
Coordinating Committee; the education departments in other ministries which
are in charge of the institutions under their ministries would participate in
the working group whenever appropriate and serve as the liaison between MOE
and other ministries/agencies concerned. Each subproject institution would
establish an implementation unit to assist the central unit on implementation
matters and also for monitoring and evaluation. Finally, to assist and advise
MOE in overall implementation of the proposed project, a Chinese Review
Commission and an International Advisory Panel, each consisting of three
experts in engineering, economics and finance, have been created in November
1984.  The costs for the Commission and the Panel incurred before credit
signing are paid from the proceeds of the first University Department
Project. These two bodies and the Central Coordinating Committee would be
maintained until such time as the Government and the Association determine.
51.       Implementation.  Procedures for equipment and technical assistance
procurement acceptable to the Association have been prepared. The project
would be implemented in four and a half years between July 1985 and December
1989 according to the schedule of implementation (Chart 5). The Completion
Date would therefore be December 31, 1989, and the Closing Date December 31,
1990.
52.       Reporting.  The Foreign Investment and Loan Office would be respon-
sible for reporting to the Government and the Association. After the collec-
tion of all project information, physical and educational, the Office would
prepare an annual progress and evaluation report for submission to the Associ-
ation for review. These reports, including quantitative progress on agreed
project performance and target indicators (Annex 75), would form the basis of
comprehensive annual reviews with the Association by November of each year,
during which targets for the subsequent year would be set. An in-depth, mid-
term review of progress towards the targets and of the overall investment
program would also take place with the Association in around November 1987.
Status of ProJect Preparation
53.       MOE received 45 subproject applications and after appraisal selected
34 for approval. All subprojects have already been approved by MOE and the
State Council (Chart 4). The Association reviewed about 15% of subprojects
and five national programs and found that the proposed eligibility and
3/   Departments of Planning and Finance, Science and Technology, Postgraduate
Education, Higher Education I and II, Supply and Production, and Foreign
Investment and Loan Office.



- 17 -
appraisal criteria had been applied and the subprojects and national programs
were acceptable. Draft terms of reference for specialists to be appointed in
the first year of implementation have been prepared by individual institutions
and will be reviewed by the Chinese Review Commission and the International
Advisory Panel to be finalized in early 1985. All terms of references and
schedules for studies have been prepared and are acceptable to the Associa-
tion. The commercial terms within the bidding documents used for previous
Bank-assisted education projects would continue to be used. Initial schedules
of requirements and technical specifications for basic training equipment have
been prepared and will be finalized in early 1985 after review by the Chinese
Review Commission and the International Advisory Panel. Equipment procurement
for first phase implementation, technical assistance and studies would
therefore proceed soon after credit signing.
Investment Program and Financing
54.       The total amount of the subsector investment program to be carried
out between July 1985 and June 1989 is estimated at about Y 2.2 billion or
$0.8 billion equivalent excluding contingencies (Annexes 19, 20 and 21). The
investment program is reasonable in relation to needs and feasible as its
annual average represents only about 2% of the expected annual average total
investment for education. The program costs include: (a) construction and
renovation of physical facilities and furniture; (b) locally procured and
imported equipment, books and journals; and (c) technical assistance for
specialist services, exchange programs, fellowships, studies and future
project preparation. The Association would finance $145 million equivalent
(about 12.4% of total program cost), which would represent about 31% of the
estimated foreign exchange costs. The Government would finance the remaining
costs (Annex 22). All cost estimates are based on January 1985 prices.
Construction costs were based on recent unit prices and on building areas
discounted at about two thirds of MOE standards for improved efficiency.
Equipment costs were based on MOE standards and recent bid prices under
ongoing Bank Group-assisted education projects.
55.       The foreign exchange components are estimated as follows:  civil
works, 11%; equipment, 90%; specialist services, 90%; exchange programs, 10%;
fellowships including local training, 20%; studies, 60%; and preparation of
future projects, 60%. The low foreign exchange estimate for civil works is
consistent with estimates in the Agricultural Education II Project approved in
June 1984. The contingency allowance includes physical contingencies
estimated at 10% of base costs. For the calculation of prtce contingencies,
it is assumed that exchange rate adjustments will, on average, be made to
maintain "purchasing power parity" during the project implementation period.
On this basis, price escalation for both foreign and local costs: (a) when
expressed in US dollars, is based on expected international inflation rates of
8% in 1985, 9% in 1986, 1987 and 1988, 7.5% in 1989, and 6% in 1990 and 1991;
(b) when expressed in Yuan, is based on expected domestic inflation of 3% p.a.
in 1985-1991. Price contingencies thus represent 33.3% of base cost estimates
plus physical contingencies expressed in US dollars; and 10% of the same total
expressed in Yuan. Cost estimates exclude duties and taxes, from which
project-financed goods would be exempt. Annual recurrent expenditures
generated by the program are estimated at about $39 million equivalent in 1990



- 18 -
(at 1985 prices) or about 4% of the total recurrent expenditures for higher
education, which would be a reasonable share of the sector.
Procurement
56.       Procurement arrangements would be largely the same as those used in
previous education projects in China and are summarized in the table below:
Table 2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
($ million)
Procurement method             Total
ICB      LCB     Other      N.A.      cost
Civil works /b                          -       -       643/c        _        643
-       -        (0)                   (0)
Equipment and instructional           108     145       145/d       -         398
materials                          (108)     (0)      (12)        -        (120)
Specialist services                     -       -        16          -         16
_ -     (5)         -         (5)
Exchange programs                       -       -        45          -         45
_       _        (1)        -          (1 )
Fellowships                             -       -        24        24          48
_      . (14)      (0)       (14)
Studies and preparation of              -       -        12          -         12
future projects                       -       -        (5)        -          (5)
Total                            108     145      885         24       1.162
(iT8)      °)O    £37i        (0)       (145)
/a   This table covers the entire subsector investment program; figures in
parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the Association
including contingencies.
/b   Including furniture.
/c   By assigning contracts for civil works, the traditional procurement pro-
cedure in China.
/d   Direct purchase for proprietary items, or where justified by need for
standardization and limited international tendering.
Civil works including furniture, not financed by the Association, would be
procured through established local procedures. The proposed Credit would
finance about $120 million equivalent of equipment, books and journals and
about $25 million equivalent of technical assistance. About 90% of the



- 19 -
equipment from credit proceeds would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) and the remainder through direct purchase or limited
international tendering.
57.       The newly established CJTIC (as distinct from the previously
Government owned one) would be the procurement agency responsible for inviting
bids, participating in bid evaluation and signing and enforcing contracts as
under previous projects. Equipment items for the project would be grouped
into packages to the extent possible for bulk procurement. Contracts
estimated to cost $200,000 or more would be awarded in accordance with the
procurement procedures under international competitive bldding as set out in
the Bank Guidelines for Procurement dated August 1984. Local manufacturers
would be eligible to participate and would be extended a 15% preference
margin, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower, in bid
evaluation. Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than $200,000 in
each contract and not exceeding an aggregate amount of $12 million may be
procured through: (a) limited international tendering whereby contracts would
be awarded on the basis of comparison and evaluation of quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers; or (b) direct purchase for proprietary items or
where justified by the need for standardization. Books and journals estimated
to cost about $2 million would be procured directly from suppliers after
negotiations for the best discount. Awards on contracts valued at $200,00U or
more would be subject to prior Association review. This review is expected to
cover about 11% of the contracts and 58% of their value. These estimates
reflect the expected similarity with the procurement experience under the
first University Development Project. All specialists would be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency dated August 1981.
Disbursement
58.       The pr posed credit of SDR 148 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of 5-1/2 years (Annex 23). Disbursement would be made on the
basis of: (a) 100% of the foreign expenditures on imported equipment, books
and journals, or the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; (b)
75% of the invoiced cost of imported equipment procured locally; (c) 100% of
the expenditures for specialist services, exchange programs, overseas
fellowships and study tours; and (d) 60% of the cost of study contracts and
preparation of future projects, representing the estimated foreign exchange
component. In order to facilitate the Association's processing of disburse-
ment applications, a minimum level for withdrawal application would be
$200,000. The disbursement profile of the first university development
project under credit 1167/Loan 2021 CHA indicates that the proposed credit
would be disbursed at a faster pace than the regional average for education
projects. This is feasible because subprojects have already been appraised
and approved and national programs have commenced implementation; in addition,
equipment procurement is at an advanced stage of preparation because bidding
documents are expected to be completed by April 1985.
59.       To meet the Association's documentation requirements, disbursement
applications for contracts valued at $200,000 or more would be submitted to



- 20 -
the Association with two copies of the contracts. For expenditures below
$200,000, statements of expenditure (SOEs) certified by authorized government
officials would be used. In this case contracts and supporting documents
would be retained by the Foreign Investment and Loan Office of MOE, Beijing,
and made available for review by visiting Bank missions. Disbursements
against SOEs would be made on the basis of a consolidated summary, each not
less than $200,000. Disbursements against other project expenditures would be
made against full documentation.
60.       Under the proposed credit, a special account would be set up and
maintained in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the Association to facilitate
disbursement for components financed by the Association. An initial deposit
of the US dollar equivalent of SDR 7,200,000 would be made. Applications for
replenishment of the special account would be submitted quarterly, or more
frequently if necessary, with certified statement of expenditures as
supporting documentation for disbursements against expenditures under
$200,000. Full documentation would be used for disbursements against all
other items.
Accounts and Audit
6o.       The Government would establish and maintain accounts for the
national programs and subproject institutions expenditures as well as accounts
to record expenditures of credit proceeds. The Audit Administration of the
People's Republic of China (AAPRC) would audit all of these accounts,
including documentation of SOEs. Annual audit reports would be submitted to
the Association within eight months of the end of the Government's fiscal
year. Six months after the Closing Date, the Government would submit a
project completion report to the Association.
Benefits and Risks
62.       Benefits.  The principal benefits of the proposed project would be
related to quantitative and qualitative gains in technical and managerial man-
power, efficiency improvement and institution building.  Those benefits would
accrue through Government's action on engineering and economics/finance sub-
sector policies and institutions with its effect on performance and management
of the subsector. First, adopting revised growth rates, the shares of engi-
neering and economics/finance enrollment in the subsector would be adjusted to
31% and 8% respectively by 1990 to meet projected requirements. The propor-
tion cf postgraduates in those fields would gradually increase to 7-8% by
1990. New students would undergo programs designed to provide broader quali-
fication in theory and practical work, taught by increasingly younger, higher
quality faculty. Second, the project would generate savings to the Government
with the improvement in planning and utilization of physical facilities and
staff resources. The present comprehensive dormitory system would be modified
further under the project with an increase in the proportion of commuting
students from the current 3% to 10% by 1990. These efficiency measures are
expecCed to decrease the capital cost per student by about 10%. Third, the
project would continue to assist the Government in strengthening its subsector
planning and implementation machinery. Specifically, MOE would be strength-
ened in its technical capacity to undertake manpower development planning, and



- 21 -
systematic processing and execution of subsector development projects as well
as moLitoring and evaluation of those proj.-ct objectives.  Last, the project
would help introduce changes in monitoring and evaluation of university
quality, student admission, and university management organization through
support to studies on these topics.
63.       Risks.  An important risk associated with the proposed project is
the difficulty of coordinating implementation by some 35 subproject universi-
ties managed by a number of ministries (about 20 are expected) and several
national programs with their impact on the entire programs of engineering and
economics/finance education. Universities maintain a great deal of autonomy
and university development involving more than one institution entails deci-
sions by many autnorities. Universities may therefore not conform to the
development strategy, in particular when it requires policy and institutional
reform. To reduce this risk, the project would: (a) maintain the Central
Coordinating Committee comprising key central agencies of the Stat- Planning
Commission, the MOE and the MOF; and (b) establish (i) a working group within
MOE including representatives of subproject institutions; and (ii) implementa-
tion procedures which would allow for flexibility and adjustment by mutual
agreement between the Association and the Government following joint annual
and mid-term progress reviews. In addition, subproject processing and equip-
ment and technical assistance procurement have been significantly advanced
based on the lessons from the first University Development Project. These
measures should minimize the risk.
3. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
64.       The Association obtained assurances from the Government tlhat:
(a) project objectives would be implemented as stated in a policy letter
and action program (para. 33);
(b) fellowships would be awa:-ded in accordance with agreed selection
criteria and procedures (para. 40);
(c) monitoring and evaluation units would be maintained until such time
as the C-cvernment and the Association determine (para. 47);
(d) studies would be carried out in accordance with terms of reference
and schedules agreed with the Association, and that the findings of
the studies would be promptly furnished to the Association when they
are available (para. 48);
(d) national programs and subprojects would be processed according to
agreed procedures, criteria and guidelines (para. 49);
(e) the Central Coordinating Committee, the Chinese Review Commission
and the International Advisory Panel would be maintained until such
time as the Government and the Association determine (para. .50);



- 22 -
(f) annual and in-depth, mid-term joint progress reviews would take
place with the Association (para. 52); and
(g)  anndal expenditure and performance audit reports and a project
completion report would be submitted to the Association according to
agreed schedules (para. 61).
65.       Condition for credit effectiveness is the approval of the State
Council of the Development Credit Agreement.
66.       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a Credit of SDR 148 million ($145 mil-
lion equivalent) on standard Association terms to the People's Republic of
China.



ANNEX I
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
llniversity Output and Re,uirements by Field, 1981-83
C 000)
Percentage
increase
1981                            1982                            1983                     1981-R3 (2)
Require-                       Require-                         Require-                       Requtre-
Field                     nutput    ment    (A)/(R)    Output    ment    (A)/(B)    nutulit          ment    (A)I(R)    Output    ment
(A)      (B)        (2)        (A)       (a)        (M)        (A)       (B)        (2)
Engineertng               R85.       205.n       42       111.0    263.n        42        92.0      242.n        38          8       1n
Agrtculture                18,5       28.3       65       1R,S      29.0        64        16.0       21.0        76       -11       -26
Forestry                    3.0        6.2       48         3.0      8.0        38         2.5        5.5        45       -17       -11
Medicine                   17.0       11.0       55       33.0      57.0        58        36.5       52.0        70        115       6R
Educatton                 I08.n      143,6       75       89.0    176.0         51        8io.      120.0        71       -21       -16
Humantties                 13.5       31.7       43        11.0     41.8        26        11.5       33.0        41          n        4
Science                    19.5       27.n       72       28.0      36.n        7R        19.5       240n       R1          0       -11
Feonomice/Finance           6.5       34.s       19        in0o     68.7        15        W'.O       61.0        16         54       77
Politics                   n0s         5.4        9         1.o     l1.n         9         2.1       R8n         24       360        4R
Physical Education          1.0        3.6       81         2.5      2.5       100         2.7        3.5        77       -10        -3
Arts                        1.5        3.7       41         2.0      6.0        33         1.0        4.0        25       -33         A
Total               276.0      52n.0       53       309.0    699.0         44      281.0      574.0        5n          2        10
Source: HOE, SPC



ANNEX 2
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
middle- and High-Level Manpower by Selected Priority Agency, 1983
Middle- and high-level stff education level
SkilL work-  Technical  Univer-
ers school    school      sity     ?o-tgraduate    Sub-
(graduates) ------   Engir-              total   (AFB+C) as  Univ. supply   Own univ. supply
Ministry/agency                        Total staff       (A)         (8)        (C)    neering  Total (A+S+C)  2 of total as 2 of needs   as 2 of neede    Source of data
Mechntcal Industry Miniatry             5,541,000      137,840     76,900    148,400    518      781   367,100        7            17                72         From the system  /a
Aeronautic Industry Kinistry              240,000        9,700      1,500      20,000    380     400    31,200       13           81                 SO         From the system
Electrontc Industry Mnistry             1,300,000       80,000     40,000      60,000    400     450   180,000       14            17                40         From the system
Shipping Industry Company                 300,000       13,800      4,100      36,900    317     320   239,200       18            26                3n         From the system
Metallurgical Industry Ministry           297,000      118,100     48,900      72,200    557     557   239,200        8            16                92         From the system
Colored Metal Company                   1,100,000       52,100     18,300      33,100    392     392   103,400        9            35                44         From the system
Geology and Mtning Ministry               406,000       48,800      17,800     27,400    664     664    94,000       23            58                82         From the system
State Mapping Bureau                       26,000        2,000        900       2,400     44      44      5,300      20           60                 94         From the syqte.
Chemical Industry Ministry                123,000        6,500      3,700      11,000     84     105    21,200       17           31                 52         Froe Ministry/agency only
Railvay Ministry                        2,700,0o0      256,500     20,000      88,300    570     640   364,800       14            28                73         From the system
Transport Ministry                      4,677,000      100,200     30,300      33,500    278     278   164,000        4            29                81         From the system
Enviroment Protection Ministry          6,021,000      117,100     46,500      57,000    298     449   220,600        4            9                 35         From the system
State Construction Materials Bureau    1,543,000        47,400     12,800      17,700    163     167    77,900        5           .75                36         From the system
Light Industry Ministry                12,350,000      134,000     62,000      54,000    154      171   250,000       2            40                50         From the system
Textil.e Industry Ministry                 50,000        1,700       1,200      2,900     33      40      5,900      12            35                55         From Ministry/agency only
Finance Ministry                          397,000       35,900      4,400       8,600      0     329    48,900       12            IS                60         From the system
People's Bank of Chtin                    800,000       53,500      6,700       5,800      0      60    66,000        8            16                70         From Ministry/agency only
External Economic and Trade Ministry        9,600          SOO      1,000       4,000      3      96      5,500      57            30                53         From the system
Justice Ministry                            2,800          100         100      1,500      0      141     1,700      65            90                90         From the system
/a Includes all enterprises affLilated to the ministry.
Source: Relevant agencies.



-25-                           ANNEX 3
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government's Projected Requirements for
University Graduates by Field. 1986-90
(in '000)
Average
Requirements      requirements per annum       Output
1986-90                 1986-90             in 1983
Engineering                     855                    171                  92.0
Agriculture                     150                     30                  16.0
Forestry                         35                      7                   2.5
Medicine                        240                     48                  36.5
Education                       750                    150                  85.0
Humanities                      110                     22                  13.5
Science                         100                     20                  19.5
Economics/Finance               260                     52                  10.0
Politics and Law                 60                     12                   2.3
Physical Education               15                      3                   2.7
Arts                             25                      5                   1.0
All Fields               2.600                    520                 281.0
Sources: SPC and MOE. Based on 1982 estimates by provinces, municipalities
and central agencies, but excludes the requirements by 3 provinces
and 4 central agencies.



-26-                              ANNEX 4
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/a
Teachers by Rank and Years of Higher Education, 1983
(Z)
<4          4         5-6        >6         Total
Professors                    7.2        41.7       18.9       32.2         2.5
Associate professors         15.6        45.6       22.7       16.1        14.5
Lecturers                     8.9        40.0       45.1        6.0        53.1
Instructors                   5.0       68.4        14.8       11.8         5.8
Assistants                   32.0        51.0       12.0      . 4,.9       24.1
Total                   15.2       45.2        31.4        8.2       100.0
/a Total of 23,700 In 26 key universities.



-27-                              ANNE 5
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/a
Teachers by Rank and Age Group, 1983
(Z)
<30       31-40      41-50      51-60       >61        Total
Professors               -          -         0.1        1.3       31.1         1.5
-         -         1.3       14.4       84.3       100.0
(4,400)
Associate pro-           -       0.03         5.1       37.0      41.9         9.6
fessors                -        0.1        20.2      62.4       17.3       100.0
(29,100)
Lecturers              0.3       19.3        83.8       55.7       21.6       45.4
0.1       7.8        70.4       19.9        1.9       100.0
(137,600)
Instructors           10.4       14.2         8.4        5.6       5.3         9.4
26.0      27.7        34.3        9.8        2.2       100.0
(28,300)
Assistants            89.3       66.5         2.7        0.4       0.2        34.2
61.2      35.6         3.0        0.2          -       100.0
(103,500)
Total           100.0      100.0       100.0     100.0      100.0       100.0
(70,800)  (55,400)  (115,600)  (49,100)  (12,000)  (302,900)
23.4      18.3        38.2       16.2        4.0       100.0
(302,900)
/a In all fields of the university subsector.



-28 -                             ANNEX 6
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/a
Teachers by Rank and Years of Services, 1983
(%)
<5        5-10        11-20       >20        Total
Professors                     0.3         0.2         1.5       98.0          2.5
Associate professors           0.5         0.4        2.1        97.0         14.5
Lecturers                      4.4         8.3        26.7       60.6         53.1
Instructors                   64.3        14.7       17.5         3.5          5.8
Assistants                    63.8        31.4        4.6         0.2         24.1
Total                    21.5        12.9       16.7        48.9       100.0
/a Based on 26 key universities.



CifINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expansion of University Enrollment, 1983-90
('000)
Average annual
1983        1984      1985     1986      1987      1988      1989      1990   increase, 1983-90
(%)
Undergraduates
All fields       1,207        1,347    1,517    1,682    1,844    2,021    2,181    2,321                9.8
(100.0)    (100.0)  (100.0)  (100.0)  (100.0)  (100.0)  (100.0)  (100.0)
Of which:
Engineering      419         462       521       572       618       658       686       713           7.9
(34.7)      (34.3)   (34.3)   (34.0)   (33.5)   (32.6)   (31.5)   (30.7)
Economics/        71          81        93       105       120       137       156       178          14.0
finance       (5.9)       (6.0)    (6.1)    (6.2)    (6.5)    (6.8)    (7.2)    (7.7)
Postgraduate
All fields        36.4        50.0      64.0      78.0      86.5      94.5    102.0    110.7            17.2
(3.0)/a    (3.7)    (4.2)    (4.6)    (4.7)    (4.7)    (4.7)    (4.8)
Of which:
Engineering    16.3         22.4      28.7      35.0      38.8      42.4      45.8     49.7           17.3
(3.9)/b    (4.9)    (5.5)    (6.1)    (6.3)    (6.4)    (6.7)    (7.0)
Economics/       4.8         6.6       8.4      10.2      11.3      12.3      13.3      14.4          17.0
finance       (6.8)/c    (8.2)    (9.0)    (9.7)    (9.4)    (9.0)    (8.5)    (8.1)
/a  As a percent of all undergraduates.
T7  As a percent of engineering undergraduates.
Tc- As a percent of economics/finance undergraduates.
Source: MOE.



- 30-                                      ANNM-  8
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Planned Allocation of 500 Departments for Development
by Major Fields and Specialty, 1985-94
No. of       Number of allocated
Discipline                 Major fields               specialties           departments
1985-94  1st phase  1985-94   1st phase
Engineering          Geology                         10          8         30         14
Mining                           6          3        10           5
Power engineering                5          3        20           4
Metallurgy                       5          5        20          14
Machine building                20         18        85          23
Radio and Electronics           10          8        90          13
Chemical engineering             8          6        40          11
Light industry, textiles
and food products             11         7         30           7
Surveying and mapping            4         3         10           3
Construction                    12         9         35          16
Transportation                   4          1        20           1
Subtotal                                        95        71        390         111
Arts and Sciences   Arts                              -          -        24           0
Foreign language                 -         -          7           0
Economics and Finance           18         16        29          27
Law                              7          6        20           6
Science                          -         -         30           0
Subtotal                                        25        22        110          33
Total                                          120        93        500         144



ANNEX 9
-31 -                            Page 1
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Letter of Policy for Engineering and Economics/Finance Education Development
Mr. A.W. Clausen
President
International Development Association
Washington, D.C.
1.        In reference to a proposed Credit of SDR 148 million for the devel-
opment of engineering and economics/finance education, we hereby inform the
Association of the policy and institutional development objectives and actions
this Ministry has already taken and further proposes to take in the future.
Our effort to strengthen this subsector is an integral part of a broader
objective to create a strong human infrastructure of scientific, technical and
managerial manpower for China's modernization. The proposed project would
support the first share of the Government's ten-year program to increase high-
level engineering, economics/finance and managerial manpower.   In the
following we will elaborate on our objectives and proposed actions which are
primarily concerned with enrollment, curriculum, faculty, and planning and
management. Planned course of action and achievements in these areas are
described in the attached action program.
Enrollment
2.        We are concerned over the small size of overall university enroll-
ment and the imbalance in the enrollment structure with its relative neglect
of social sciences and graduate programs. Although the share of engineering
enrollment has expanded to about 34%, social sciences enroll only 12% of
students within which economics/finance enroll merely 6%. This structure is
inappropriate for the future manpower requirements of the economy. They
enroll only about 4% of total university students compared with an average of
10% in advanced countries.
3.        We will allow a more rapid growth in undergraduate enrollment in
economics/finance. The enrollment in graduate programs for both engineering
and economics/finance will also increase more rapidly so that their respective
shares in total enrollment, both undergraduate and graduate, will be higher in
1990. The enrollment growth and shares will, however, be affected by the
economic growth rate and pattern. We will therefore monitor the manpower
implications of economic growth by improving the technical capacity of the
newly created Planning and Research Office in the Ministry of Education.
Curriculum
4.        The curriculum is highly specialized to meet the specific manpower
needs of the planned, socialist economy. Graduates from the existing univer-
sity program require costly retraining to be mobile in the work force as their



-32 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 2
training is too narrowly specialized. Our development goal to modernize the
economy demands reform in the present curriculum in order to produce graduates
capable of planning and managing China's increasingly dynamic economy.
5.        We will broaden the curriculum and reduce the number of specialties
in the university system, but will also introduce some new courses. To direct
resources to develop the broadened curriculum and reduce the number of spe-
cialties, we will allocate the proposed credit proceeds specifically for
restructured specialties in engineering and economics/finance. Furthermore,
to ensure the high quality of the revised curricuLum, we will undertake a
study with the aim of establishing a system to monitor and evaluate
undergraduate degree programs. A study proposal will first be introduced in
engineering and economics/finance.
Faculty
6.        Faculty development is a crucial factor in strengthening higher edu-
cation. The serious damage caused by the Cultural RevoLutioi' was a setback in
the overall quality of faculty. The obsoleteness and shortage of equipment
and facilities can be remedied over a comparatively short period of time but
training and retraining of teachers is a longer and more difficult process.
Most professors are advanced in age, and need gradual replacement by younger
qualified staff.
7.        To improve the general level of faculty performance, we have intro-
duced various policies in recent years and will continue to implement them as
part of the proposed project. FirsL, we will endeavor to implement a retire-
ment age policy issued in 1983 to lower the average age of faculty members.
Second, we will reassign unsuitable teachers to non-teaching jobs. Third, we
will accelerate inservice training to upgrade knowledge and skills of faculty
aged below 45 in and outside the country. We will invite foreign professors
to give Lectures and assist in research, especially in new subject areas.
Fourth, we will identify promising students and send them overseas to be
enrolled in graduate degree programs as preparation for university faculty.
The proposed project will assist in achieving our objectives to improve
teachers in service now and also to prepare for new teachers in the priority
specialties of engineering and social sciences.
Planning and Management
8.        We need to improve planning and management of university resources
on several fronts. First, our manpower development planning is conducted
mainly on a short-term, annual basis and depends upon estimates made by
individual enterprises and agencies. Second, the existing method of student
selection to universities, relying on the national unified entrance examina-
tion, has, however, not responded satisfactorily to such problems as the
imbalance in performance of students from urban and rural schools, the
importan=e of high s_hool performance as compared to examination scores, and
the predictabiLity of student performance after admission. Third, the
utilization of staff and facilities is low. Fourth, the management of
universities is highly compartmentalized and shared by a number of agencies.



33 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 3
9.        To address these weaknesses we intend to strengthen, as already
stated above, the Planning and Research Office in the Ministry of Education to
improve manpower development planning. A longer-term plan and a more
integrated methodology are necessary to reflect more closely the economic
demand and provide more useful directions to education planning. The
Department of Student Affairs of the Ministry of Education has been assigned
to undertake a study of student admission to help introduce changes in the
present admission system, to be completed by 1987. We plan to send study
groups to several countries to learn their methods of selecting students for
universities. We have initiated action to improve resource utilization as
part of the first University Development Project. We have already invited a
number of foreign experts on university management and held a series of work-
shops attended by university administrators and faculty members. Under the
proposed project, we will continue to address the issue by increasing enroll-
ment at a faster rate of growth than the number of teachers to raise the
student:teacher ratios in engineering and economics/finance. We will also
improve scheduling and timetabling of classrooms and laboratories to increase
their daily utilization and extend the opening hours of libraries. For
renewal of equipment we will suggest the Government to establish a deprecia-
tion allowance system for higher education institutions. We further plan to
increase the percentage of commuting students. Lastly, we will conduct
another study of university management, also to be completed by 1987, to
present alternatives to the existing arrangements. Before finalizing our
policy decisions we intend to experiment with study recommendations in some of
the subproject universities.
10.       We are pleased that the Association shares our views.  We look
forward to our close cooperation through the annual joint reviews to ensure
the success of the project.
Sincerely yours,
(signature)
Name
Title



Attachment 10
Page I Of 3
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Program of Action on Pollcy and Institutional DeveloFlpent
Action under the project
Objectives                                                            Action taken by January 1985                                  to be completed by December 1989
Enrollment AdJustment
a.  Expand overall engineering and social science            MOE's Dept. of Planning and Finance has prepared             The plan and program will be revised, If neces-
enrollment to reduce manpower shortages.                the enrollment and output expansion plan from 1984            ary, when the results of the ongoing manpower
to 1990.  Reflecting the needs, economics/finance           study become available in early 1985.
and postgraduate education will grow faster than
engineering and undergraduate education.  Based on    Balance of manpower supply and requirements will
the plan MOE has prepared the inveatnent program             be monitored annually and enrollment intake will
for the period.  Bank staff reviewed both the plan    be adjuated when necessary.  The share of engi-
and program.                                                 neering ln total enrollment will decline to about
31X In 1990 from 35x; and the share of economics/
finance will rise to about 7X in 1990 from 61 in
1983. Postgraduate enrollment will rise from 2.4%
to 5.01 during the same period.
b.  Strengthen enginaerLng and economic/finance at    SPC and MOE have recommended 500 departments to be    Some 35 subprojects will be implemented by 1989.
selective departments,                                  developed in three stages, 150, 150 and 200 be-
tween 1984 and 1993.  MOE wlth expert assistance
have identifLed the first 152 located in 34 uni-
versities based on eligibility and appraisal cri-
terla and guidelines agreed with Bank staff. Bank
staff reviewed a sample (15Z) of feasibility and
appraisal reports as well as appraisal proce-
dures. 5PC and MOE have approved subprojects.
Quality Improvement
a.  Improve curricula by reducing overspecializa-            The Premier ordered the reduction of speclalties             MOE's proposal for economics/fiinance will be
tLon.                                                   in 1978.  MOE's Depts. I and II of Higher Educa-             revlewed and finalized in mid-1985.  The restrue-
tion prepared a proposal In 1983 to reduce 500 en-    tured curricula will be introduced from the acade-
ginearing speclalties to about 200, and 50 econo-            mic year beginning September 1985.  The work to
mic/financing specialtles to about 30.  MOE fur-             revise ecurses will begin in 1985 by the existing
ther decid3d to increase general and basic theory            120 committees which have been responsible for
courses and decrease specialized courses:  common,    curriculum Improvement of specialties.  The work
baslc technical and specialized courses from 40,             will be coordinated by MOE.
45, 15X to 40, 50, 10X for engineering, and from
40, 40, 20% to 40, 45, 151 for economic/finan-
cing. HOE's proposal for engineering was reviewed
in April 1984 by more than 200 experts from minis-
tries, industries and universities, and approved
by the State Council in June 1984. Highsr Educa-
tion Department I continues to revise curricula in
economies/finance.



Attachment 10
Page 2 of 3
Action under the project
Objectives                                                          Actlon taken by January 1985                                to he completed by December 1989
b.  Strengthen teachers' performance by accelera-          HOE's Cadre Development nept. has developed a con-    In-service teacher training will be provided to
ted in-service training In and outside the            prehensive teachar development plan up to 1990.             about 3X p.a. of teachers on average who are
country, recruiting younger, able teachera             It includes projected attritlon, new recrults,             younger than 55.
while terminating the service of aged teachers    otock and required training programs in and out-
and lmplementing exchange programsns                   sde the country.  HOE has established a Chinese
Review Commssion and an International Advisory
Panel in Novembor to assist and advice In tho im-
plementatlon of the project.
90 institutions have been selected as centers for          HOE will select fellowship candidates and special-
domestic tn-service teacher training, two of which    Lat candidatea for the first year of project la-
(at Beijing and Wuhan) are to becone informatlon           plementatlon nominated by universities by April
centers for tralning.                                      1985.
Language training will be provided to all selected
candidates in China, and about 300 to 400 annually
will be sent overseas for further study and about
30 to 40 annually will be invited to China for
lecture and research.
Candidate fellows end specialists will annually be i
reviewed by the Chinese Revlew Commission and the
Internatlonal Advisory Panel to ensure technical
assistance programs to meet the project objec-
tives.
HOF reviewed teachers not older than 55 and selec-    Training Centers located at Beljing Normal Univer-
ted 3,000 will be further trained and becone the           uity and Wuhan University will be built and
main teaching force in the 1990s.  Half of 3,000           equlpped to become centers for staff training
will be trained in China and the other half over-          material production and information.
seas, They are mostly in engineering and econo-
mics/finance.
MOE made a plan to Invite foreign experts annually    -
on short-term asaignments In new specialties. A
program Eor staff oxchange hetween universities
and industries has also been prepared.
Fellow and specialist selection procedures and             -
criteria have been prepared and Bank staff re-
viewed them.
c.  Lower the average age oE teachers.                     The State Counecl tssued a retirement age policy           The average age of university teachers wilL be re-
in 1983.   HOE is Implementing this pollcy.                duced from 45 to 42 by 1987.  Bank will monitor
progress.



Attachment 10
Page 3 of 3
Action under the project
Objectives                                                          Action taken by January 1985                               to be completed by December 1989
d.  Improved experimental and research work at             MOE identified specialttes for experimental/re-            First phase equipment will further be revieved by
selective universities.                               search work and universties.  MOE with other agen-    SPC, Comnission of Science and Technology and
cies reviewed equipment lists for the first phase          CNTIC in early 1985.  Blid documents will be final-
procurement.  Specifications have been prepared.           ized by June 1985 for the first phase equipment
The Chinese Review Commission and International            procurement,  8ids will be invited and evaluated
Advisory Panel have reviewed equipment lists and           also In 1985, and contracts be awarded In early'
specifications.                                            1986.
Blids for second phase equipment wil be invited in
1986 and contracta awarded in 1987,
Planning and Mana8ement Development
a.  Strengthen enrollment planning by improving            A planning and research office was created in MOE          The staff of the office to receive tralning in
long-term manpower projections.                       in 1983 to conduct long-term manpower planning,             planning techniques and experts to be invited to
As part of the program, the capacity of the office    strengthen planning work as a continuing process.
would be strengthened. The office recruited addi-
tional 7 staff including 4 postgraduates in econo-
mic, education, statistics and system engineering.
b.  Increase the utilization of human and physical    MOE and Bank staff agreed to Improve the use of                 Student/teacher ratios and opening hours of labs
resources of universLties,                            teachers, laboratories and libraries.  Also, deci-    and llbraries will be improved.  Percentage of
sion has been taken that students residing near            commuting students will be increased from 3X to
universities should connute.                               5-6X of total students by 1988.
c.  Establish a project monitoring and evaluation          A central monitoring and evaluation unit within            Such units wiLl monitor and evaluate progress of
system.                                               MOE and corresponding local units within subproj-           the project and their report will become a base
ect universities have been established.                    for annual review of project progress and for a
completion report.
Studies
a,  Introduce a system of monitoring and evalua-           Department of Planning and Finance responsible for    MOE will send teams of experts to selected foraign
tion of university quality to ensure minimum          the study prepared TOR and Schedule, Dank staff             countrles to discuss their problems and action re-
standards.                                            reviewed them.                                              lated to the study.  lank will monitor progress
and review findings as a base for new polciees.
b.  Improve the National Unified Entrance Exam, to    Department of Student Affairs responsible for the               MOB will send teams of experts to selected foreign
enhance stutdents' performance predictability         study prepared TOR and Schedule and Bank staff re-    countries to discuss their problems and action re-
and reduce Inequality between urban and rural          viewed them.                                               lated to the study.  Dank will monitor progress
students,                                                                                                         and review findings as a base for new policies.
c.  Improve the present management of universities    Department of Planning and Finance responsible for    MOE will send teams of experts to selected foreign
as a system and as institutions,                       the study prepared TOR and Schedule, Dank staff            countries to discuss their problems and action re-
reviewed them.                                             lated to the study.  Bank will monitor progress
and review findings as a base for new policies.



-37-                                ANNEX 11
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria for Subproject Institutions
1.        The institution must offer within engineering and economics/finance
at least two specialties from within 123 priority specialties selected in the
first stage development (List as agreed with the Government).
2.        Within each of those departments offering priority specialty areas,
there must be at Least 300 undergraduate students enrolled in the areas by
1987.
3.        Within each of those departments offering priority areas, there must
be at least 30 postgraduate students enrolled in the areas by 19a7.
4.        The undergraduate program must have operated for more than five
years by September 1985, and the postgraduate program for more than four years
by September 1986.
5.        There must be at least one professor and two associate professors in
each of the priority areas.
6.        There must be evidence of high staff quality (e.g., publications,
graduate thesis, international recognition, textbook editing for national use
either as chief editor or editor).
7.        There must be an adequate number of laboratories to support the
studies in the departments offering the priority areas (at least 70% of the
need being met already).
8.        The institution must have a deveLopment pLan up to 1990 for the
priority areas to be supported as a subproject.
9.        The institution must demonstrate that:  (a) it will have the support
of the ministry/agency concerned on the incremental recurrent expenditure
generated by the subproject (e.g., reserve fund to be budgeted annually for
replacement of equipment provided); and (b) there is the budget for capital
expenditure from the ministry/agency concerned for the completion of the sub-
project.



- 38 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for the Allocation of Credit Proceeds
General
Credit proceeds would be used for disbursements of the whoLe or a
part of the expenditures for: (a) equipment, including books and journals,
and printing contracts of related teaching materials and bidding documents;
Cb) technical assistance, e.g. specialists services, exchange programs,
overseas felLowships, and study contracts; and (c) preparation of future
projects. Credit proceeds would not be used for expenditures on civil works,
which would be financed totally by LocaL funds.
Credit proceeds would be used for national programs and subprojects
approved in accordance with the criteria for Appraisal and Approval of
national programs and subprojects and the eligibility criteria of Higher
Education Institutions as a subproject as stated separately. The Ministry of
Education may use a part of the credit proceeds for management improvement,
study contracts and the preparation of future projects, but not exceeding
US$7.5 million in total.
Specific
1.        Overall allocation would not exceed 902 of total credit proceeds for
subprojects on the development of engineering and technology areas and 15% of
credit proceeds for subprojects on the development of economics/finance.
2.        To ensure effective improvement, funds should be concentrated in a
limited number of institutions, therefore the number of subprojects should not
exceed 35.
3.        To reach a wider range of beneficiaries, funds should, to the extent
possible, be allocated to more institutions of the ministries/agencies
concerned with the provision of priority areas selected for the first phase
development. To achieve this objective, funds allocated to each institution
should not exceed US$7 million.
4.        To ensure that each subproject is balanced between the provision of
equipment and staff training, funding for technical assistance in each sub-
project shouLd not be Less than 15Z of the total amount allocated although
this may be funded whoLly or partly from a national program.
5.        To avoid over-expenditure on research equipment and ensure that
adequate attention has been paid to basic training (defined as equipment for
undergraduate training, but it may include equipment for first year post-
graduate courses), funds for equipment to be used for basic training in each
subproject should exceed 50% of the total amount of funds allocated for
equipment.



- 39 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
6.        A subproject which is too small in size is ineffective; therefore
the minimum allocation per subproject is US$1 million for subprojects in engi-
neering and technology, and US$0.5 million for subprojects in
economics/finance.



-40 -                                 ANNEX 13
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program for Staff Development in Engineering
and Economics/Finance, 1985-90
('000)
Engineering              Economics/finance
Teaching Force
Total teachers, 1984                    191.2                        11.8
Recruitment, 1985-90                    105.0                        11.0
Retirement, 1985-90                      28.6                         3.0
Transfers, 1985-90                       23.6                         3.0
Total Teachers, 1990                 198.8                       17.0
No.           M/Y           No.           M/Y
Domestic Training
PhD                                6.0          24.0           0.3           1.2
Masters                           61.5         123.0           3.2           6.4
Short-term                        47.0          47.0           2.4           2.4
Total
Overseas Training
PhD                                0.9           3.6           0.1           0.4
Masters                            3.7           7.4           0.4           0.8
Short-term                         7.1           7.1           0.7           0.7
Total
Staff Exchange
To industries                            23.6                         2.4
From industries                           5.9                        0.6
Among universities                       47.2                         2.9



-41 -                                ANNEX 14
Page 1
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procedures aad Criteria for Fellowship Awards
A. Overseas Training
1.        Overseas training, including overseas postgraduate and undergraduate
degree programs and short-term study tours, should be related with key
specialties as defined in this project and for the use, mainterance and repair
of large equipments in related specialties. Overseas training is mainly for
the needed doctor's degrees and also for those master's degree programs not
yet offered in China. For short-term study and investigation, only teachers
of higher learning would be sent for a limited purpose of problemrsolving.
2.        The number of overseas fellowships would be determined by the
Ministry of Education (MOE) and assigned to subprojects. Subproject univer-
sities should not send fellows exceeding the members assigned.
3.        Subprojects should submit to MOE for its review information about
the names, foreign language proficiency scores of national test, transcripts
and physical-check results of those to be trained abroad. Applications to
overseas institutions including study plans should be made by the subprojects
and the persons to be trained and then sent to MOE for processing.
4.        The submitted applications and study plans would be reviewed and
agreed by the Chinese and Foreign Expert Consultative Groups (mainly for
considering about countries and specialties distributions). Final approval is
by MOE.
5.        Applicants for degree programs should be under the age of 45; be
able to pass the proficiency test of the language to be used; and have been
admitted by an overseas institution approved by MOE.
6.        Doctoral degree programs should normally be of three years duration
and should not exceed four years. Master's degree programs should not exceed
two years. Short-term training should range from three months to one year.



- 42 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2
B. Domestic Training
7.        Subprojects should submit to MOE for its review the plan of domestic
training for the next academic year including the number of persons and their
specialties needed which should be within those as defined in the project.
All applicants should be under the age of 50.
8.         Subprojects should submit the name List and specialties to be
trained to the training centers/agencies managed by MOE.
9.        The trainees should pass the admission examination or be exempted
from it by the training centers/agencies concerned.
10.       By the end of the training, certificate/diplomas would be given to
the trainee after successfuL completion of the training course and the passing
of a graduation examination.



- 43 -                              ANNEX 15
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Performance and Quantitative Targets
Performance requirements are set out in the action program, and the
quantitative targets are as follows:
1983             1987            1990
Engineering
Intake                             131,000          185,000          215,000
Output                             111,000          128,000          180,000
Enrollment                         418,000          590,000          720,000
Economics/Finance
Intake                              29,000           51,000           68,000
Output                               13,000          23,000           50,000
Enrollment                           71,000         108,000          170,000
No. of Specialty Areas
Engineering                             500             2G0              200
Economics/Finance                        51              30               30
Z of Specialized Courses
Enginering                               15              10                10
Economic/Finance                         20              15                15
Z of Experiments Performed
Engineering
Basic training                           69              73               80
Specialized training                     60              65               72
SubproJect insts.
Basic training                           74              78               83
Specialized training                     62              67               82
Econi            Econ/            Econ
No. of Total Teachers.            Eng.   Fin. Eng.   EnB   Fin.        Eng.   /Fin
Recruited, Transferred
and. Retired ('000)
Total teachers                    104.5    11.8       98.3   15.4   102.9   17.0
Recruited                           6.9      0.8       8.8    1.4      9.2    1.5
Transferred                          0.7     0.1       1.0    0.2      2.8    0.5
Retired                             0.7      0.1       1.0    0.2      2.8    0.5
Teacher/Student Ratio
Engineering                             1:4             1:6              1:7
Economic/Finance                        1:6             1:7             1:10
Average Age of Staff
Eng/Econ/Fin                           45              42               40
Z of faculty with Ph.D..
Maa.vter's or equivalent
o/Econ/Fin                             17              22                30
Z of Commuting Students
Eng/Econ/Fin                              3               5                10



- 44. -
ANNEX 16
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Responsibility for Management and Implementation
Description of                                                              Whose
job                                                                responsibility
Processing of Subprojects
Approval of subprojects                               State Council through Minister of
Education
Review of confirmation document submitted by          Vice Minister of Education
Foreign Investment and Loan Office Managers
Review of appraisal report and preparation of         Committee of representatives from
confirmation document on subproject                 seven bureaus of the Ministry of
Education
Appraisal of subprojects and preparation of           Appraisal task force
appraisal reports
Evaluation of feasibility report of subprojects       Foreign Investment and Loan Office
and appointment of appraisal task force
Preparation of feasibility report and subloan         Institutions applying for credit
request                                             proceeds
Evaluation of the eligibility of the institu-         Ministry of Education
tions applying for credit proceeds
Notifying institutions through ministries/            Ministry of Education, State Planning
agencies concerned, the guidelines on how           Commission and Ministry of Finance
to apply for credit proceeds
Execution of Subprojects
Civil works                                           Ministries/agencies concerned, the
institution applying for loan proceeds
and the contracting company or bureau
Equipment                                             Foreign Investment and Loan Office,
China National Technical Import Corp.
and Bank of China
Technical Assistance                                  Foreign Investment and Loan Office and
an international agency
Disbursements                                         Foreign Investment and Loan Office and
Bank of China



ANNEX 17
Page 1
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Criteria for Appraisal and Approval
of National Programs
1.        The Ministry of Education would design, preprre and appraise
national programs for achieving project objectives as outlined in para. 2
below. The approval of actions or operation within each program during
implementation would be contingent on whether the action/operation proposed
would meet these general criteria:
-    relevance to the program objectives;
-    feasibility in terms of the degree to which the
action/operation could be achieved; and
-    efficiency or cost-effectiveness of the action/operation
proposed as compared with possible alternatives.
2.        National programs would be limited to those actions/operations which
wouLd help achieve the project objectives. The objectives include:
-    increased enrollment in the fields of engineering and social
sciences;
-    adjustment of enrollment imbalances between major fields of
study aiad hetween levels:
-    curriculum broadening and improvement;
-    staff development;
-    improvement of teaching research;
-    improved planning and management in enrollment planning,
educational administration and implementation, and monitoring
and evaluation;
-    increased efficiency in facilities planning, equipment
procurement and technical assistance utilization; and
-    related studies.
3.        Specific criteria and guidelines as applied to each identified
national program would be as follows:



- 46 -                               ANNEX 17
Page 2
(a) Invitation of specialists from overseas. Specialists would be
recruited from overseas for curriculum development, staff devel-
opment, introduction of new courses, enhancing the quality of post-
graduate level teaching and research, improving monitoring and
evaluation work, management improvement, introducing efficiency
increasing measures and related studies. Terms of references should
be prepared including possible inputs from ministries, agencies and
institutions concerned. The yearly totaL expenditure should not
exceed the annual budget and the preparation of the annual budget
forms a major part in the program. Priorities and balances between
competing objectives should be pre-determined.
(b) Exchange programs. Exchange programs wouLd be aimed for the
diffusion of skill, knowledge and technology between institutions,
between industry/commerce and institutions, between China and
foreign countries and between young and oLd, inexperienced and the
experienced. While the objective is to maximize the coverage for
all young and middle-aged teaching and administrative staff. the
teaching programs in institutions affected should not be adversely
disrupted because of staff depletion. Replacement staff and
temporary job re-assignment should be carefully planned. Priorities
and balances should be pre-determined. Local exchange programs
should be preferred to overseas programs for cost reasons. Shorter
duration programs should be preferred for less disruption effect.
Annual and total budgets should be carefully prepared.
(c) Fellowship schemes. Both in-service and pre-service training would
be included in staff development schemes. Training in industries
and commerce shouLd be judged as equally important as training in
educational institutions, as industrial and commercial experiences
are essential for teachers in engineering and social sciences.
Local training would generally be preferred for cost reasons but
quality of training should be a crucial factor for the chcice
between local and overseas training. For overseas training,
selection of the country, the institution and the tutor/trainer
should be carefully examined. Priorities and balances should be
pre-determined. Annual and total budget should be carefully
prepared.
(d) Staff Training Centers. Special purpose training centers could be
included as a national program. The training must be related to
staff for courses in the areas of engineering and social science. A
capital investment budget should be carefully prepared with due
regard to optimum utilization rates and high efficiency. A feasible
operational plan for at least the first one or two years of opera-
tions should also be prepared, and from the operational plan, the
recurrent expenditure budget should be prepared.
(e) Study contracts. The selection of areas to be studied should
conform to project objectives (para. 2 above). The terms of
references should be prepared in consultation with parties concerned
and affected. The proposed composition of the study teams and their



- 47                                ANNEX 17
Page 3
qualifications and experiences should be determined appropriately.
Budgets should be prepared. Local consultants, if adequately
qualified and experienced, should be given priority over foreign
consultants.



-48 -                              ANNEX 18
Page 1
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Criteria for Appraisal and Approval of Subprojects
General
1.        The Ministry of Education task force would appraise the subproject
requests from institutions qualified under the eligibility criteria of higher
education institutions and submit its findings co the Minister of Education
for approval. Subproject appraisal and approval would be based on the
criteria of: relevance to the overall objectives; feasibility and
effectiveness of the proposals; and efficiency of the proposals. Subproject
applications should contain the information and data necessary for the
appraisal task force to determine the acceptability of subprojects, or when
necessary, could reach its decision with a minimum amount of field visits.
The application should normally include the following sections:
(a) university objectives; (b) presenc status and problems; (c) a five-year
development plan including facilities, equipment and staff development;
(f) estimated costs, (f) schedule of implementation; and (g) management
framework.
2.        The appraisal task force appointed by the Ministry of Education
could assign weights to individual factors within the general framework of the
above criteria to ensure some degree of flexibility, but should arrive at a
consensus before submitting its appraisal report and recommendations to the
Ministry of Education.
Specific
Relevance to Overall Project Objectives
3.        Subproject requests would be evaluated to determine the degree to
which they meet overall project objectives and address the problems identified
by the requesting institutions in their development plans. Appraisal analysis
would include the following:
(a) SpeciaLties to be Strengthened. The requesting institution plans to
strengthen at least two specialties in engineering or economics/
finance, and such specialties must fall within the 123 specialties
selected by the Government for priority development (list as agreed
with the Government).
(b) Enrollment Increase. Projected increase in undergraduate enroll-
ments should exceed on average 8Z p.a. for engineering specialties
and 142 p.a. for economics/finance specialties between 1983 and
1990. Postgraduate enrollments in the same priority specialties as
at the undergraduate level should increase at a faster average rate
of 17% p.a. between 1983 and 1990.



- 49 -                              ANNEX 18
Page 2
Cc) Staff Development. A plan for annual staff recruitment, retirement
and transfer should demonstrate an increase in the student/staff
ratio, the enforcement of the retirement policy, decrease in the
average age of staff and the accelerated promotion of junior staff;
a plan also has to demonstrate that annually at least 6% of staff
teaching in the specialty areas concerned will receive training
either overseas or local and at least another 32 p.a. of staff
concerned will be on an exchange plan with related industries,
government agencies and/or local/foreign universities.
(d) Curricula. The new undergraduate curricula in engineering and
economics/finance, whether they concern integrated specialties or
revisions for an interdisciplinary approach and more experimentation
in both basic and specialized courses, should be gradually implemen-
ted with a completion date not later than 1988.
(e) Physical Facilities. The proposals for civil works and equipment
must fall within the specialties concerned and be used by staff and
postgraduate and undergraduate students in these specialties. The
proposals would not only be to accommodate enrollment increases, but
also to meet the needs of the new curricula and quality improvement.
Feasibility and Effectiveness
4.        Feasibility.  The request would also be evaluated in terms of the
feasibility of implementation of the objectives. Specifically, the absorptive
capacity of management and financing would be appraised:
Ca) Management. The competence and effectiveness of the management of
the requesting institution and the agency concerned should be
appraised in terms of their organization and staffing for effective
subproject management. Inter-linkage between agencies, between the
agency concerned and the requesting institution and between the
requesting institution and industry/commerce should be demonstrated
to be effective. Line of communication should be open and bureau-
cracy should be minimal. The appraisal report should address issues
aiid propose solutions for improvement, if necessary.
(b)  Finance.  Both the capital investment and recurrent expenditure
should be within the capabilities of the agency/institution con-
cerned. The application should demonstrate the feasibility of the
incremental budget by indicating that the agency/institution has
prior approval from the Government for an increased budget to
finance the required local fund, or the agency would allocate
resources for the use of the requesting institution from other
expenditures if the total budget is not increased. Funds to replace
worn-out or obsolete equipment should be part of the incremental
budget.



ANNEX 18
Page 3
5.        Effectiveness.  The appraisal should evaluate the effectiveness of
the requesting institution's development plan. The new curricula may be
inadequate to meet the national needs and under such circumstances, further
improvement may be necessary. Poor library facilities could resuLt in less
effective education. Experimentation would not be fully effective without
development of quality instruction sheets. The provision of new and modern
equipment alone is ineffective if the stafE have not been trained to use the
equipment. Shortage of consumable materials, inadequate power supply, poor
maintenance, delayed repairs and environmental deficiencies (e.g., dampness
and dust) could idle equipment and make the training ineffective.
Efficiency
6.        The subproject cost estimate submitted by the requesting institution
should be reasonable. The cost evaluation of requests for equipment, various
civil works items, furniture, equipment, books/journals and technical assis-
tance should ensure their economical and rational utilization.
7.        On civil works, utilization rates of about 75% should be aimed at
for classroonms, lecture theaters and discussion rooms; 80% or higher, if
possible, for expensive laboratories, testing centers and computer centers;
and almost full occupancy for supporting facilities. Existing facilities
should always be taken into account, so that overall efficiency of the
institution would be improved. Additional dormitories should be kept at the
minimum. Equipment requirements should be relevant to the new curriculum,
screened by at least two levels of control, and aimed to be utilized at a high
rate during its lifetime. Existing equipment should be taken into account.
The economical provision of technical assistance should also be carefully
examined.



ANNEM 19
-51 -
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subsector Investment Program (July 1985 - June 1989)
by National and Institutional (Subjects) Program - Breakdown by Local
and Foreign Expenditures
Y million /a               US$ million /b
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
National Programs
Specialist services         3.1      27.9        31        2         9         11
Exchange programs          77.4       8.6        86       27         4         31
Fellowships                 76.0     19.0        95       26         7         33
Studies                     8.4      12.6        21        4         4          8
Subtotal (rounded)      165        68      233        59        24         83
Institutional Programs
Engineering
Undergraduate             803       580    1,383       286       208        494
Postgraduate              120        96       216       43        34         77
Subtotal                923       676    1,599       329       242       571
Economics/Finance
Undergraduate             224       133       357       81        47        128
Postgraduate               31        17        48       11         6         17
Subtotal                255       150      405        92        53       145
Total Base Cost       1,343       894    2,237       480       319       799
Contingencies                  289      194       483       218      145        363
Total Program Cost   1,632    1,088    2,720         698       464     1,162
/a At January 1985 prices.
/b All figures have been rounded. Exchange rate: Y 2.80 = US$1.00.



ANNEX 20
- 52 -
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subsector Investment Program (July 1985 - June 1989)
by Category of Expenditures - Breakdown by Local
and Foreign Expenditures
Y million /a               US$ million /b
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total
Civil works /c              1,101       136    1,237       394       48        442
Equipment /d                   77       690      767        27       247       274
Technical Assistance
Specialist services         3.1      27.9       31         2        9         11
Exchange programs          77.4       8.6       86        27         4        31
Fellowships                76.0      19.0       95        26        7         33
Studies                     8.4      12.6       21         4        4          8
Subtotal (rounded)       165        68      233        59       24         83
Total Base Cost        1,343       894    2,237       480      319        799
Contingencies                 289       194      483       218       145       363
Total Program Cost    1,632    1,088    2,720         698      464      1,162
/a At January 1985 prices.
/b  All figures have been rounded.  Exchange rate:  Y 2.80 = US$1.00.
/c Including furniture.
/d Including books and journals.



ANNEX 21
- 53 -
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subsector Investment Program (July 1985 - June 1989)
by National and Institutional (Subproject) Program
(Y million, January 1985 prices)
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    Total
--   (IDA fiscal year) --
National Programs
Specialists                                  7        8       8        8        31
Exc. programs                               22       21      21       22        86
Fellowships                                 25       25      25       20        95
Studies and preparation of future
projects                                   9       10       2        -        21
Subtotal                                63      64       56       50      233
Institutional Programs
Engineering
Undergraduate                            421     371      330      261    1,383
Postgraduate                              74      59       43       40      216
Subtotal                                 495     430      373     301    1,599
Economics/Finance
Undergraduate                             72      81       96      108       357
Postgraduate                              16       13      10        9        48
Subtotal                                88      94      106      117      405
Base Cost                             646      588      535     468    2,237
Contingencies
Physical (10% of base cost)                 65       59      53       47       224
Price                                       43       59      73       84       259
Subtotal                               108     118      126     131       483
Total Program Cost                     754     706      661     599    2,720



ANNEX 22
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPM3NT PROJECT
Overall Financing Plan (July 1985 - June 1989)
by Category of Expenditure and Source of Fund
Government        IDA        Total          % IDA
------  (US$ million) -- --               financing
Civil works                       442              0           442            0
Equipment                         166            108           274           39
Technical Assistance
Specialist services               8              4            11           36
Exchange programs                30              1            31            3
Fellowships                      21             12            33          36
Studies                           2              1            3           33
Preparation of future
project                         2              3             5          60
Subtotal                     62             21            83           25
Total Base Cost             670             129          799           16
Contingencies                     347             16           363            4
Total Program Cost        1,017            145         1,162           13



ANNIX 23
- 55 -
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Forecast
Disbursement profiles
IBRD/IDA                                   China    AEP regional  All regional
fiscal year          Disbursements         first ed.   education       education
and semester  Semester  Cumulative          project      projects       projects
-- (US$ million)       (Z)      (X)          (Z)            (X)
FY86
1st         0.0         0.0        0       0            1              1
2nd          1.5        1.5        1       1            3              3
FY87
Ist        13.0        14.5       10      16            6              6
2nd        14.5        29.0       20      26           10             10
FY88
Ist        22.0        51.0       35      40           16             15
2ad        21.5        72.5       50      65           23             22
FY89
Ist        21.5        94.0       65     (75)          31             29
2nd        15.0       109.0       75     (87)          40             37
FY90
lst        14.5       123.5       85    (100)          49             46
2nd        14.5       138.0       95       -           57             54
FY91
1st         7.0       145.0      100       -           66             62
Notes:  (1)  Figures in parentheses are estimates.
(2)  Disbursements are expected to be faster than the AEP regional and
all regional averages, based on the outstanding performance under
the first education project in China under Credit 1167/Loan
2021-CHA.



-56 -                                                                 ANNEX 24
rEnV,t_TIVr  wr. ATlnNl IN4IC3TM1OE                                                page  1  of  2
CENTRAL 
GNPID11J 1N nm rr cmcrmN                        cmLrrim               ncentrwcUT
n0  PTCATIIW  *aR42J1r1T    amILY               NArAT Frn            un COST  PRr. cst ml
cGnP Pa              AS PERQttr    RzP1n3IImInCw  L!T.PACY PRINArY PRIMARY    PtIMlAR  PRIMARY    RATE PF3N   SRIIIUNT SF.tOWIDAPT tII3rI.R
ASP! POP. CAPITA  PERCENT GNiP TnrAL CNtiRAL ALLncATrn Tm: RAT            ENPOLL. SCHOOL       STmrNTs cnrAT I fg  PRIMARY TO  ENR.LL.   STUDENT   PHr I.1..
YEAR MILLS. (33351 IIEtVTmIo m0 cnIWUtEUr   PFI  l!c  off    (2)   ntATtn   CYCL               PER      At PERCENT SPONOARY   RATIrO    PrF            RATIn
(3979) (1q79)   F.ICATION  PXPn"ITII3REI         (1         (39743   (2)         (2)     TrAN4FNR r.RPICAPFTA      (2)        (2)     TrAr!.9    12)
(1) >   (2)        03)           (4)           tS)          (N)       (73      (N)        (9)        (in)         (lI)        (32)      (1I)    (14)
tVLctterD trkWngrolts
AUSTRAlA        -4rI   14-                                                -   -  .  14.4  -- _0)1 3_12I              21       -             99          73        13      20.90
*AtADA             NI      1.7k  9541k    1.74            3.1.7     lnm? 14&? 236?   9b        3nfi      100         21       39.9.?       3Inn         923       In      27.wns
CERtWV r.Rt.       79    41.2  31.200        4.A          9.k       -      - _-   sgb           N9e      330         --       -            l      O tl            ---     12.10.
NECTtMENAMOs       ,q    34.0  30nO n       7.*          s.I        20   1i   25      nbt       94        93         29       31.                      1 32      31      I2. 4
4TH 14LA39n        nn     1 32b  h*619b    l j          13.4        17  31   20        "       3m4 nn  30            24       13.4         100          N?        35      2S.Anr-
%m4nem             7q      R.1 1 2.250       *0n        IN.2        31   30   10    9job        9w      l30          IN&      I4.S         34I0         3w        3n1v    34.1in04
EASTERN AFRICA%
p0T-uAHI E2 *               .nb     7         -          -          49   2r   II      *2b       rI        no         32       21.1          2A          --        23       --
NiUIeno            NIt     4.2      2l 231   2.33w      19.0        43   25   27       2'       29w       3S         17       20.2          12           1        I7       I.nn
rnConMns           No      0.4    720        4.w        25.4 A      4    20 b  14     -         99        as5        45       14.n          5n          21w       0n       3.4n
D.i I WlTI         N6      0.4      AN0     1.0          33.9       73   24   ...    30         42        44        40        414)          4n          i0        39       nAn
rTmi4n1A           NI    32         34b, l    ,93       1U.1        43   21   34       53       42        3rJ        43        9*.I         954         14        44       n.4%
IIFMYA             32    It 4b    A20b    ¶7W           %4,3b       *5   16     _     4Ab N    31         sP        16        14.4          35          In        26        -
L.F.Stn            N2      34.   4,,b    5.S            13.9        31   32   24       53b     I14*       41         An        9.4          4t.         21        21       I3Im
M"AIAASCAR         77 n       b    $31 t.   4.n4        24.0        51   2N   19       30       94kw      33        55b        t.0         3Y           14        23       1.Inky
NtAI.AUI           NI       .3      210     15           3 I        13   14   25       2kb      62        23         65        5J4          12           4        21       0.4n
NAIIRITIUS         RI      I. nb  1.370b    4.3          4.0        4i   16    7      reb       9]        72        23        1330 nno                  sn       72        I.An
ItUIANDA           NI      S.,1b    sbob    2.7         24.         712  14   12       37b      b4        62         40       13.0          In           7        34       0.4n
SEYCNrLLES         -       0.6   1.711      5.9         22.4        346  33n    o      -        -                   25        -             -           ---      ---      -
SOMALIA            Nt      4.5      250      3.5        3n.s        Sob  *4kb  kb   snb         7b        ROb        29b       9.nb         r41         12b       27       3.nn
110nA4             Rn)   IR 2b    Se0t    1.0            --          6   13   ...    32         53l       GN         34        1.4                       4        14      ...
E3AZILAIM          a]        7b      ,ob    349pb       20.4        53   34   II      e5b      n93        SO         33       33.0          1           29        IN 3i nn
TANZAhIA          SN      319.5     20n    1.9          27.1        47   30   16       7s9b     9b        By        43        1IID          19b          I       2n3       0.3n
IUANDA             An    32.46      I9b    --            34.3w      21k  3k  2jb    48          54w       41         34       -             l7           5        23       O.4n
7Z413E              13    2. rb    2l0b    7.7          26.A        --      -   o       456.b    76       25         30       21.0         do           In       2R        2.en
7AMIA              ND      S. ;     sb    4.Sp           33.3       48   21   22      44b       93        so        48        12.9          39          34       22        3.1n
7. I 4A311         Nl      7.7b    iijb    s.3          ao.s        42   32    6      44b       5n        Ss        39        24)           R3s         is       23        n.50
-WESTERN AP'ICA
RNUIN              79    3'4b    12Db    4.3w           21.0        43   22    5    lIb         42        in        4$        14.           30          1I       43        1. 0n
.3:R51NA 7ASI     RI      6.5      214n    2.13        21.7        43   ZR  2N       '         34        25         57       24.1          33           3       24        0.01
CAMrtonN           78      3.2      539      2.97       16.07       33a  43. 206   -            A7        434       50        11m4          2 2n          T      26        I.30V
C.A.R.             79   2.2   inn   349w?    20.Aav   -  -  -   -                               -         --        65.   --               --          -        -          M.104o
.iiAn              7*      6.4    I32       2.A"        21.7b                        IS         2Sv       -         77        -              -wy                 2r   3f.24V
f  Dc              73      1.5      470    9*0"n        27.7e-                                  --        -         s_  _     - _4n                     -        43,b    4.nnsy
CARNO              77      n.6   1.4Ao       1.7by         4                                              -          46kv     -             -           - _Qby             249m..
CAI,BA              77     0.4      22m         .5       t           6   25                     W 30i  Oby  90       27bJ     44.7          40n         12ur    17         -
CRANA               7r    11.3      400      4.o         1$.5b         -        -     --v    -                      27by      -                         INS 349.  2-
0 137A                      1 S.3    MP    4.A'm        -           25.  23.  234   20          34        36         35       20.enp        MS          16        29       7.0n0
IVORY Cr1A4        NI      ni.2b  I.n73b   30.          45.0        33   44   33 1   3 0b       40       16         43        24.0          47          ISwrY   24         3.n0a
LIBERIA            Nn      3.6      s20     4.6         39.4        43   23   24    33          52        32        35        20.0          16          22       20        2.90
ALZ               N1      7.nb    3on      4.2.        21.7.       3    2i   13    30          20        AO        44        3.7          6t            3       13        n.oy
MAIRITTAIA         78      1.6b    32nk    S.'          16.9        33   43   25    17b         32        60        44        32.0          30           9       25        0.37
131:91             IN      %.2      104     4.3ey       I4.46y      562. 43.   5i    N          17        SAn       Ala       IN.7.         40           2       24b       n.20t
ICUnRIA            77    X2.4       90      4.13         9.4                         -          - _  _                         -             - _I3fV             25        0.37,
NtJIAL             77      5.S     450      *.0         23.0        4    3 34   2X0 iAkwy    -                      43        -             20         l0        21        2.20%y
SI.RRA LPIE        717     3.4      250     4n is       3ufb        -     -     -    3s5        3f7      -          35        25nb         X4          3se      22       0.4ltp
Tnfo               7x      2.4      400     &.3gw       2N.3q       3    26.  21.   In          74        40        34kv      113.          52          32bv    4ARk       3,4my
LATIN AMERICA AND TII CARUA
ASEr!NA            7      27.3   2.210      2.7         30.9        43.  lie  In.   't          so       52 u7               -             e7          3I         N       21.00
RAIIA4S            76      0.2   2 710      S.7         19.1        36   36    I    4.b        9         97         24        -             97         75        19       -
MRAIWIS            7t     n.2   2640        A.sawy      22.1-       43.  1.  3..   99k1    lOn          99*        27r       3U.9a        gem         7py       20?      --
3411.1143          *)      S.4     5so 4    4.lST       30n.5       -    ---         63b        74,      -          20y       -             -           157      -        12.A0y
B3AZIL             79   334.5   31.y        3.8          6.2        33   -    34    76          73cr     -          2367      4.Sh 11* 43              IST       34v    32.12b
CR13Lr2            14    Io.n   1,390n    i.zb'         11.nb       --  __-          --          9bxp    -          34bv      -            -           Slkwy    20kv    33.90kv
CnLOIRRIA          an    24.7kb  3 Ib    1.3            2sn         1n   an   mn    Rb          7s       36         32         4.6          -          47        20       18.OZev
CO1S, PI rA        an      72b  I.3Ob    9.4            31.1        40   27   31    90          93        77        33         S.5          77         40        27       14.00
aCUA               in      Q 1      --      9.0         33.0        .-- -     --   94          112bke    43         33br      -             9u        7lbxv    15        13432by
IOINICAN REP.    :n        5 1     f.nlI    2.9         31.0        39   23   22    6sb         so       33         It         3.2          94          30       33        4.430
143ADn1             D      R.I4      I      6.nD        14.1        45   33   3       3 1 A105           -          36        12A b4                   47        16       2t.Om
LL  ALVA311411     77      4.4     640      3 4         21.by       64    A   27    AZ          32kx      32        la        -             41         24bkw     27br      7.90by
CGIATEMA6LA         73     4..     , I.O    1.747      12.k         -         _ _    -          9bwy    -          35b                    6fit         libtr    15.7      1.SOy
CUtANA             74      41.3     410     9,31"'         *         - I-- 11-        -          b       -          32br      -             - _r                  -by
HAITI              SIt,    -..      210     1.4.         7.9.s      65    9                    s 23k  so  i0        4l        39.0         42           4        27        0.30
HOIDURAS           73      Isb,     s20           3      41kbr      62.  ISO  198   I0          39bxy    30         43bk      12.Ue         Ass         2117     39    IS oy
JAMAICA            an      2.1   3.330      4.5         11.1        37   43   20    90         98        93         40         2.3          U5         RI        22        4.00
NasalC             No   645.1   3 no        4.7         11*0e       46   39   IS    92         93        53         44         945         as          36        37       30.111
NICARCAGA          78      2.41 46b ID      1.01-       3 1443k     ---       - 9_nb           3Sbw      24         37b      --            -           26bx      30b       _
PA4AK14            73      39' I8.-.S0b    3.sb57       21.8bk      42.  13.  31    32b        93bY      --         25br      11.6         NS          SObr      27bp    ZO.60by
P4AMlAGlY          79      1.0  13,&0       1.4.        34.2        42   17   20    34          83       12        2          1.3r        76          22        32        0.70
Prc                an    16.4   1.0no    13.            14.1        53   15   39      0        613       3          3         9.9           9          39        22       14*4fY
TRItNDAI  4 T10.   77      31.   3.931      4:.by        N:8by    Aim  32   20    53           94        93         30        II.S1?       49          62        24       -
,rnm"UNA           79      2.19   20        2 .5 9*4                 - e-     - =4 =0m5x                 =          24b       -                        64bx      -        3R7ONRv
VII4KZIELA         73    34.4   1,440       5.Iy        331.9b     -    -     --    32         30hkw     -          238        -                       33kw      37       ZI.IOl.



-57-                                                                       ANNEX  24
C@WA*3*71W  MrUIAIIII  INDICATOREs                                                    page  2  of  2
I                    EOICA IC TIIum   M                 r Ca'Uil           mbnim.r nr   14F"a
NP PP.5             AS PISa'W      RZPU17UII S  LITuSACf PRISSY PRIME?T   P3144    PIINtASY    PAIr P1W   119*NDART SSIRARYI 510W5l
EAST ASA AND 13A319 Pop. CAPITA  mcmw  ONP TniAL. cWffAi ALUICATED Tat lATE           VW". a NI.    31161  EDUCATTION  VNIOAS  To  ENoLML.   RTN=1VT   ENROLLt.
ThAi '1112Li. loss)   stromng to  cMrwnjm        FRI quc wI    946   stans   cvcaF           KRm      An PF.NI     SflNS4S     RATIO     MEP        RATIO
(9979)  1979)   UllIcTloN  InwfnnuaMR          (t        (1        (2)        (2)     TRACKS  CUflCAPITA       (It         (7)    TPa.AWlR    (1)
C"IORA             *3 *,Ist3.      30       LI1         7.1        36   40   22      7?b      77        62         R1        N.A         AS          3%       Ii1       4.30n
lINWUsiA           RSII 1.11.1     320     2.1          9.3        7n   24    6     )2b       911      II         37       Its j         74          27       24        1.7In
KOREA              52    3931h  a1436ho   pjW          2n.6        34   34  II       94       99        9         43        36.0         OR          A&       in       21 .3At
IqALkYSTA     8             1632 I.70b    3.      22.7        395  445I1    ye,0         97'       97        26        i.I'W        a           72       22        6.04n
PPUAILIPPINES                       120      .         1 9.0       40 37   22        -        66        73'       lie        % I         Ii          Ii::     273       3.114
69ffb    zAm   I4.0       64 3 36*-                            0          13        7.3          59         ii        IA      21.0
KnTrnAPOE          an     2.4   4.42n      2.7          6.7        39   40   36      33       42       83         31         3.A!        94          Ri       22        ASIa
36121O09  Stq.     n0     0.2      410     4.2pw       18021       41   34   20    6-        fin       an         24       --                        in       ---     -
THAILAND           an    47.3b    723b    3.4          20.s        so   is   ast    as        S         --         7         9.11        In          79       27        4.00
sn011 ASIA
RANG.1A  ff        79    92.3b      90      l.lp       tOd1ay      RI   37  20       Rib      637       -          3         i%.6         -14                 21        3.61
RIMAN  I      a       3.2      An      3.4        33.0         i-n-             3        32                                                               -------
lmmia              17   6439*      230     2.9p         9.91.     -- -               6        79w       -         4        -, -25                             4- .1fey
NEPAL.             *2    IR.O%    15nb    1.4          1---                          I        70        --        N          -            -          21       21        ). 70m
PAPIRTAN           *2    37.1b    300b    2.0           7.0       3N   20   24       22       30        43        30         S.9         36          R1   II Ii    .00
innOR '130  KST AND MOWNI AFRICA.
A33NMIIArIAN       17      5.5      1- .7               3.7        67   39   Is      12      '31 by     ig        37h       6-            2           S        22kv     3. 00y
AW.ESIA            79    14.3   1.770    3JAw          3 2.3       3Am  lie  2ia    31        MIT      4AU        37         7.M1        Ii.         29y      24        1.Joy
ta Pr              32    43.34    110      4.fi         7.9        32' jela e    440          73.      moe        lie       9ae          aue         Aia       Us      i7.110
au1rA'             76      9.3   4*lAfl    2.6.         InA6b      37   24   21      --       97by      -         29b        i6.2?        -          Jhe       77hv    l7.NQhv
IRAN               79    26.9      -       L.7ey       14.1e my-                    so       103am     -          32e      -             --         44mw      24e      4.9Oey
1340               79    IRA6   271l0      i.1ey        6.ey4"-                     -        lnOy      -          23       ----                       Rm      29w      *.lnev
IrLANI            a     34h, 4.s           6.i117      13.3ay     -     -     -     95        93       94         iS       -             98         s         Ii A    ii.no
jnoIns             Ii      2.2b  i420b    4.9.         10.2        19   44   ii5    70b      3063       3S        12         7.2         9 1         *2't     7i       39o.nf
LPAAENG            79      2.19    -       -           lN.Amw?    -_- -          -     _-     4Go      -          3 9                    ---         Law      ---      27.mnnv
MOROCCO            no    19.3      760      4.3w.      37.3.,      36 44   20        23       lfie?     31        39        1S.7         40          21w      21        6 .50
o'in               KR      *94b  sq92ob    2.1evw      12.7w       -_---_    3Gb?             71w       61        2S        --           Ni14                          ..
pON1IA.            Is     9.46  2.0A0      3.6         22.2        so   23   33      73       97        20        Ioe       3T.8         oSw         41.N      le       M.10nn
ROUSSITA           75    22.3   2.100      1.9by        6.2Y       ----              91      106lot    -          23b                    in 9        5431     27%      30.40hy
SPAIN              76    37.0   4.920       2.37       14587       -          -      -        su        -         tb                     ---        17hw      --       2A.li0)bw
SYRIA              74     6.4   3*7          .£p       3n.1        39   Ri1  2Ra     se       sty      4f         33%                    Got6       £3hy      Rib      12.46
IDNISIA            I96.              .10    75          9.         42    9   16 LS     b     inot      an         36        1.           30          3'        130      4.06
TownT              *1      *.7t  1A         3.3        21.2          -  - -          7gb     33ns      96w        RU         7.9         II          in       2n       4.76
Y34 .Rt.          3M       1.3     420      iSp        12.0        4     7    7     RIb       37        12.      )NP       p70 sg                             20        3.30
'tees P.3.5.       Az      206 b   *24b    7.6          9.7        6ge  14e   ne    R3        53        16        2R        22.0w1       46          I?       2n        2.10
auesmv FOR 3EI12PI CrAI3TIEUt
*omer af C.mesrlee:                     5               94      70   69 67        71       35        Ad        96        62           72          II        94      a3
SEInO:                                  (4-             3.7-  (19-  (1-  (3-    (8-      (IS-      (32-       (I?-      (1.1-        Cib-        (2-      (fi-    (6.n03-
10.0)         45.0)  94)   46)  34)    99)       339  99)             77)      67.0)         94)         54)      43)      29.n3
quertcllet Ulppers                       l.A           20.8     52   31   21      on       96        79         42       20            55         43        21      30l.6
Nsdien:                      4.0           11.1     43 27   to        SR        33       Go         3s       32           fit         25        23        I.,
Lmovr!                       3.11          30.1     37   IN   33      24        56       31         27        7            40          I1       In       I3a
Quertile, flelatiose                     l.i            1.I    7.1  9.0  4.61  23.0      26.11    22.1         7.1      4.4          22.11      13.16      P.4        ..A
11mm:                                    4.5           31.1     46  23    36      33        75       60         36       14           60          31        2.       1.4
Stenudard Deviation:                     1.9            7.4     1I36 I      7     30        26       21         II       31           27          23         1       7.4
"edIcs:                                  4.0          31.3      43   23   39      33   3        II  6           35       32           13          21        22       52.7
Sy"NOLS:                                                     IA0TNOTr:   I - ESTINATKD IN TIlE ALRENft 00 CVNRUS DATA
--   ATE.! UNAVAILABLE                                      A - 33*11.PRI tOR 'M  WIS tRam                       S - '.1INI5757 or RINIATIOM INNW) ONLY
'MCMI1IDR NIL ng NECLIr Intl                              R - t0AT1W P313 RZCKNT TEAM PASS YrAS               T - KW11 AIM STAIr COVP.MRIUIEMT  6
7   AIIII4 OIJERTIONASLE                                   If - CURRENT PRICKS                                  WI -   3IILIC EXPKNflhltIS  ONLY
*IMO.3105  PART-TI'41. SliIDrM.M                           P - CDP                                             X - INCIJIRI OVER-Art SflTIhXTl
T- SeAm asMiRMS
%ROECKS:                                                                                                                       1' - U01AKR SKOIDART ONLY
Cola..s I end 2: world aeck atlee or INID etemione.
Colunne 3 to 34: 13812 wiswione* Government coerces esteor Oneeo Stetietlce 1 Temirbsob.
comretire Kdceetlon Peta ere useful in1 the seeluetiont of various educetion ys.temo end eamlysie of relative eteese nf sducstiasel .ievloeuent between verlag.,
countries. However. on the heels of the preset date. croes-netionml coesriwom wheuld he eporoeched with greet cation. Dete presented In t%e above tehl. hae.
bees collected lerxely by tmuk mission. free soveruent enurcee: the reuneindr wre etatff stmeteet or date from ntneoe. r.'fforts haen been medw te etenderdise
defintitns end. within limftw, to check the aecurecy of the dete. Nserttelemw* aeve dete Are still Imperfect in me-orel rsspoctw end the Resk Iw workina to
ieprave thoem proigrmeesily on the occemion of Ate oneretiosel mork.  In the ewe of these date, the following queliFlcetiOe ashould be bent in mind:
(3) tZducmtlouC as defined Iun the teble includes wIl educetion end treining* both tonme end nom-fornel.
(2) 'Prteery' edcatetin refers to education et the first level end eecondery' educetion refers to all edectetln At the necundery level regardless, of type
(e.g.. neitral. techntcat. egricvltsrafl.
(1) -Literecy retee- (col. 4) mrs often aobteised from cosetry censuses. is mesy cowotrles they aem only epproximnations and it Is doubtful thet any uniform
definition of -lltertee ha been Vol twed conetetemtly.
(A) 'Public expenditure in educatlon- (coin. 4 end 5) refers to .1l cepital end recurrsnt expendituree, dewnted to educetion by pubtlc Awl quept-pullic
(5) KnrAmllnet retlos- (cole. 7. 12 end 14) refer to memool peer end amo the naerentene of eligilel chIldren enrolled full-tise in the Appropriete school.
psblic end private by level. lThey aer often sublsect toea side mergtl of errror In the developing co.sntries suing to veflettone Is the eccuracy of besic
dete (i.e.. ame-specifIc populetlee end enrollnents). Rsrollmost lituree frequentlr are hixbor then the mauler  of etudent aectually. in echool. Over-ege,g
.mndentn uhnee isclnsion Is inAicered by fomotnotes also c*n tsiflaete the reties.



- 58 -
ANNEX 25
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies related to the Subsector
A.1 Provisional Measures for the Implementation of the Regulations
Concerning the Academic Degrees in the PRC, Chinese Education
Association for International Exchange, November 1982
A.2 Regulations Concerning Academic Degrees in the PRC, Chinese Education
Association for International Exchanges, April 1982
A.3 A Report on Speeding up the Expansion of Higher Education, MOE and
SPC, April 1983
A.4 Application for World Bank Loan, MOE, December 1983
A.5 China: Socialist Economic Development, Annex C - Education, IBRD
Report No. 3391-CHA, June 1981
A.6 Educational Planning and Administration in China, Jan-Ingvar
Lofstedt, 1984
A.7 Higher Education: The Tension between Quality and Equality, Jurgen
Henz, 1984
B. Working Papers and Data
B.1 University Development rI - Engineering Education, Robert A.
Greenkorn, March 1984
B.2 University Development II - Economics/Finance, Education, Yusuke
Onitsuka, March 1984
B.3 Social Science in Chinese Higher Education with Special Reference to
Management-Related Specialties, Yusuke Onitsuka, October 1983
B.4 Detailed Priority Specialties in Engineering and Social Sciences
B.5 Contract Profile for Loan 2021/Credit 1167-CHA
B.6 Detailed Operational Plan and Investment Program
B.7 Organization of a Technical Ministry - An Example of the Ministry of
Machine Building Industry
B.8 Procedures and criteria for equipment and technical assistance
procurement
B.9 Terms of Reference for studies.



CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DfLOPMENT PROJECT
Shucture of Education
{ 23
n  -
{d2
X          W.O
I {       3        1   2    3y T            2iI
S  Sf U_.C CIe
D~   .    4    S    0         i   6    e    so   11       12   IS   14        IS   10   17        I    se   X    21  77   23   74   23
;ods                                                        !I7       ~  J       4,  0e  o  12          ¶3  14 1S



- 60 -
CHART 2
CHINA
Organization ot the Ministry of Educatlon (MOE)
Genoral Office
OMce of Policy Study
-     Frsl Departmnent of Higher Education (coM1prehensive univetlet
normal unIversitles & institutes ot social sciences)
-    Secondl Department of Higher Education (engeering. oariculturad &
mnedical universitles & institutes)
-9Bureau of Science & Technology (scientifc research In higher
lorning Institutions under direct ledership of MOE)
Department of Politicol Theory Educotion (education on politicol
thoty)
Department of Student Affoirs (enroilment, school rdol & distrbution
od groduates of higher loernlng insttutions)
Department of Secondary Technical Eoucotion (secondory fechnicol
schools)
-Department a Teacher TraInino (normal schools)
First Deportment of Generol Education (secondary. ogriculhurol 8
vocational schools)
& Eureous          Second Deportment at General Education (pri-school education.
primoar & blind & oeaof-mute schools)
-         Department of Ecucation for Notionolities (eoducation in minoty
regions)
- Department of Phys,coi Educotion (physical education at all levels &
Ministry                                    types  ofsctwotas)
Education                                   Department d Adult Education
-         Planning Department (planning, financiol ottars. statistics,
empoyfment & solanes ft all levels & tvpes od chools)
- Bureau of Capital Construction (examiring & approvig of
investments & architectural designs)
Bureau at Production & Supplies (producino & developing
instructional instruments & equipment)
-         Bureou of Foreign Affairs (eoucotionol exchonges & cooperation with
foreign countries)
Bureau of Personnel (personnel affairs)
Foreign investment & Loon Office (development projects with
oxternal nidls)
K PeoAes Ealucotion Publishing House (editing & publishing teaching
matenals)
-Central Institute oa Educoaional Pesearih
Enterpnsos
& Institutes  -         Central TV Uniersitv
Central Audiovisual Education inslitute
-      Editonal Department of "Peoples Ecducotion
-       Centrol institute of FEucationol administrtcion
Source MOE                                                                            Woic Bank-26209



CHINA
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Forelgn Investment and Loan Office
Organizational Chart
|Directorl
Dk Dso(2)       r
- the Nurnbef of Permanert Staff
WOf Bank -26290



-62-                                                  c     4
CHI
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
PROCEDURES FOR GEEUATITNG AND PROCESSING LOANS
1                         2;
MOESPC& MOF                                                   3
emflM1tb, can
mbcr h noWyiWluv s 
alhetedo the
hmw"i-,..genciin
A9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7o
6                                         4~~~~~ 
/OE sibvdtsag0Amerb
to act. Caujncl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ atoW
\ /  82No
7                                 v                                  U
. MOE LOWcenikm       /                       VW  oiC YZcif        T_ Face  Rw
_ bwis -"       ocaScoo   to km                        1pW     a      mpmi_
14                  13                12             t          o_ 
''as    M Ofts OvAsws       TasktopcesN Ys brr*sh  No  -
| \ ~~~clh  -" sjpoot        >   i h  |
t.  _  .  =- tNo A & Yes Y6s | <* Uxzn > 2Y         ye
15~I  ,        16       _        160
-         i - -/o:a - - -oan -                     LiO Loano7 OeS
I~~~~~~~~~e                              a      I_.wr.o 2
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W t9a *N 2tD                                22
R  ~~~~~~~ 4 =  A5=e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1c
Wcdcob  8n  NDtO



CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule ot Implementaition
PROCESSING OF SUSPROJECTS:
39 Loan Applications Received & AppraIsed
3 1 Subprotscts Selectedi (ot Approyot
subprciects Approvedh
PROCESSING OF NATIONAL PROGRAMS:
Prepuratran ofN Notioa Stall                     I
Davelogiment Prgogran
Progrom Appoised 
Program Approved
Other Progroms, to be Processed 
Jointly' m)l hAcdvisoy Parel 
CML WORKS:                                    I                                                                                                                                          A
Preparotion of Dbowings & Specs
Con'rocts Assigned
Constructon                                                          -       in       -      I
Guarantee Poriod                                                                                     i
diQUIPMENT:
Bid Documer its Prepared
Bids invited
Bids Evaluafed-
Contracts Awarded                                                                                               M
Equipmfent EDeirrerea                                                                                                            
Warranty Period                                        II
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:                               I
Specialists ServAces                             I       -         4                                                                                    
Feilcirsh-ps & Excharge Proagors                               I-                                                                            
Studies                                 - -                                                                                                                                
Negotiations      .                      Credit Effectivoets
Bcard Presentation   -   ----    I .1          Credit SgrgWorld Bonk-26r642



U..  S.   S.  R  .e.                                                            f                             ,
--fflsWdX1W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1~-
X ~ N                        A N                                                             . 
Tho- -a ha ba,                                      Drana>e by
The ~      ~ MM Baw' staffq _xcksm
_, nd ft a i abU    S.    .   R n                                                                                (             r
k , ,> ~~-                                   -                                               1<  h....
Ar                                                                                                                                                            sura<          ,:            G -- -  
AFGH-ANISTA N                                                                                   -                                                        - -
ColMddbnCsTh denw     cta                                                                                                    r l   _     
uSed and hars been rere sown
paTh aitrd o  a_w   stat BBc* an Mse
eadi di tle ncw ele -f trhe                                            / v 0o           I    N     C, 
d orNV  mory ror NrV ~rg  C~-*v, gt~-
ande slem or afleptn eafce
sueh andlsbo aes *-Ale                                                                                                                    C-    .. '
N.y ~        ~ Hann  Ia Ni leg  status51J                                                                                      i<      ,y  
SECOND UNIVERSITY                                                                   5..t(s -4,-n% m    Z
DEVELOPMENT PROJECt                                                                        ljiE,                          ,            .
Roadsii(  _                                                                          r        t      G"^ 
SngleTt   -    -nrack
+      Airports                                                        A/         j lo                  S  
-Z     Major Ports                                                     >b          p,   -fi          -    ^       >,kC ,
40     Capital                                                      ._er,. _              >,>           p    Y                 l
6      ProvinCdal Capitals C9t E~_5t4 Non4
e     Mejor Towens                                                       , 
Provincial Boundaries 
- - international i30undaries-~                                                  .               VI EvT       
J  <LACO PEOPLE-S. 4 .
<,.>     L1EM1ObCRATIC  /             /        P
SECON  TUNIAVIELRASD hN -"A3
.~~~~Dul  Trc                                                                               ,..     -                         .           *r __' i: '



IBRD 18550
--f iU. S. S. R,"
eiom.omo,oe V.,h.'i-9-b " 'j,
_  9L I A                         ,              7         <AAt                   - t                             -  :x
_~~~~~~~H._. Oo                                                              PEOLE's                    JAPANs
-- + T j ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC- 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  KOcrEA 
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OF
I' AXreg Jv                                                           1~Xmg 
Z.-Y.  Zhi.*i   ACO PR
- e *t_zpo gzz ~'H        N 
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r, I, WA; Al :,.: 
~~~~~~~A                  ETM a. -#JDO. 2W  3f<XEfso...........w dw  Sw xoN  MD a  PHILIPPINES
i >     4_  1       Ilila~~~MLE; O  100   700    KO    CO0   300  
SEPTEMBER 1984



