Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
Repot Ne.P-3933-CHA
REPORT ALND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
OF SDR 148 ILLLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 5, 1985
This docunent has a restricted distbutin and may be ued by recipients only in the perfonrance of
their official duti Its conLuts may not otiwise be disclosed witwot World Bank antbriinion I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Yuan (Y)
$1.00                Y 2.80 (as of January 1985)
Y 1.00           =   $0.36
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAPRC    -   Audit Administration of the People's Republic
of China
CNTIC    -   China National Technical Import Corporation
MOE      -   Ministry of Education
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
SOE      -   Statement of Expenditure-
SPC      -   State Planning Commission
.



F   OR  CAL  USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Amount:           SDR 148 million ($145 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Prolect
Description:    As the first phase of a ten-year program (1985-94) to build
up high-level technical and managerial manpower for national
development, the proposed second university development
project aims to promote policy and institutional changes
related to the engineering and economics/finance education
subsector. Objectives include: relatively faster growth of
enrollment in economics/finance and postgraduate education;
broadening of present over-specialized curricula;
accelerated in-service training and promotion of younger
faculty; strengthening of experimental work and academic
support services such as computer and audio-visual certers
and libraries; improvement in longer-term manpower planning,
facilities planning and university resource utilization; and
introduction of project monitoring and evaluation. In
support of the program, the project would help finance: (a)
equipment and materials including bcoks and Journals related
to engineering and economics/finance for about 35 subproject
universities; and (b) technical assistance and equipment for
five national programs comprising specialist services, fel-
lowships, staff exchange, studies, and training centers.
By 1990 the annual supply of engineering and
economics/finance graduates is expected to increase to
180,000 and 50,000, respectively, which would meet the needs
of central and provincial government agencies for technical
and managerial manoower. The graduates would have received
an improved quality of education under more efficient
management. It is also expected that the capability of the
Ministry of Education to systematically process and
implement projects would improve as a result of the changes
to be adopted under the proposed project. An important risk
arises from the inherent difficulty in coordinating imple-
mentation by many subproject institutions managed by some 20
ministries. In order to reduce this risk, a central coor-
dinating committee, comprising representatives of the State
Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Ministry of Education has been created. Also, a workimng
group located in the Ministry of Education and responsible
for day-to-day project implementation has been formed
consisting of representatives of selected universities.
Program Cost (July 1985 - June 1989):
Local     ForeiRn      Total
----    $ million --
National programs                          59         24          83
Engineering subprojects                  329         242         571
Economicsffinance subprojects              92         53         145
Base Cost                        480         319         799
Contingencies
Physical                              48          32          80
Price                                170         113         283
Total Cost /a                    698         464       1.162
Financing Plan:                         Local      Foreign      Total
$ million --
Government                               698         319       1,017
IDA                                        -         145         145
Total                                698         464       1.162
/a   Excludes indirect taxes and duties.  Imported equipment, books and
journals would be exempt from duties.
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year               1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
------ $ million  ----- ---------
Annual.         1.5    27.5    43.5    36.5    29.0        7.0
Cumulative       1.5    29.0    72.5   109.0   138.0   145.0
Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:     No. 5271b-CHA dated February 5, 1985



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF CHINA FOR A SECOND UNIVERSITY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Second University
Development Project.  The credit for SDR 148 million ($145 million equivalent)
would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. An economic mission that visited China
early in 1984 is currently preparing a report on long-term development issues
and options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors by
May 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        To address problems of economic inefficiency and structural
imbalances, the Goverrment initiated a program of reform and adjustment in
1979. Reform implementation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and
culminated with the introduction of the "production responsibility systeM" (in
various forms), which gave households and small groups autonomy in production
and investment decisions and allowed them to keep most income earned after
contracted payments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast
majority of production teams in China had implemented such a system. Reform
of the urban economy started out much more slowly, but nevertheless signi-
ficant systemic changes occurred, including bonuses for individual workers;
profit retention by state-owned industrial enterprises (at first on an
experimental basis); fiscal decentralization measures, which allowed provinces
to share in the benefits of increased revenues and gave them more freedom in
budgeting; and some decentralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment
policies resulted in an increase in the share of consumption in GDP; a rise in
the share of light industry in total industrial output, substantial improve-
ments in living standards, rapid growth of foreign trade (particularly
manufactured exports), and relatively modest (in relation to past trends) GDP
growth.
4.        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, a deterioration of the
external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980,
inflationary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive invest-
ment demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and
financing. In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
ization program in early 1981, which relied mainly on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation



- 2 -
(to around 2% p.a.), a sharp cutback in budget-financed investment, a lower
budget deficit (1% of GDP in 1981); and a current account surplus of $1.5
billion in 1981 and $5.6 billion in 1982.
Economic Performance. 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked up in 1982 with the resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has continued to be strong -since then, and real GDP growth averaged over 8%
p.a. from 1981 to 1984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and con-
struction materials were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand, yet price
increases were limited by further strengthening of administrative price
controls (particularly in 1983). Government budget revenLue grew very slowly
in -1982 (1.3%) but much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9%) and 1984 (as much as 10%),
due to a new-tax on enterprise retained funds and extrabudgetary incomes of
Government organizations. This permitted an increase in budget expenditures
on investment of 17% in 1983 and a further rise in 1984, while maintaining a
relatively small budget deficit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of
subsidies was largely stemmed by stopping increases in most of the agricul-
tural procurement prices.
6.        Gross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. between 1981 and
1984, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster ttan light industry (12% vs.
9%), a reversal of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. in 1981-84) and maintaining
annual crude oil output at over 100 million tons, along with improvements in
the efficiency of energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption
grew only 60% as fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has continued its very
strong performance, with gross agricultural output value rising at 9% p.a. in
1981-84 and grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in
1984).  Cash crops and animal husbandry have also grown very rapidly,
stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices.
7.        There have been impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural areas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 5% p.a. Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in nonagricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other
hand, can be attributed primarily to wage and benefit increases, which have
exceeded growth of labor productivity.
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem. Enterprise and local government investment
continued to increase sharply in 1982, far exceeding plan guidelines. In
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control
(though it still exceeded plan targets). But investment outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in efficiency have been
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen
continuously (10% p.a. in 1978-83).



- 3 -
9.        China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerable
increases in the volume of foreign trade. Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in the first 11 months of 1984, exports rose by 18%
and imports by 25%. Manufactured export growth was slower in 1981-84 than in
1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the face of
worsening world market conditions. Foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at very low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in 1983);
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over 7
months' imports) by mid 1984 and have stabilized at that level since then.
The value of the Chinese rernminbi declined by about 36% against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and late 1984 (60% against the US dollar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. A salient trend has been the spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on one type of pursuit - often cash crops,
animal husbandry, or nonagricultural activities) and pooling of capital by
small groups of households in various types of ventures are becoming increas-
ingly common forms of economic organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale
markets for some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage investment
in land improvement and development, farming contracts between collectives and
peasant households (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years)
can now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, it was
announced that planned procurement quotas for agricultural commodities will be
abolished; more methods of financing investment in rural nonagricultural
activities will be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government
bonds, higher interest rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of
the agricultural processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on a number of fronts. Since early 1984, a main focus has been further
broadening and clearer delineation of the decisionmaking authority of urban
enterprises. Profit retention now extends almost universally to state-owned
industrial enterprises and in nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce,
construction, and other services. Urban collectives and individual enter-
prises as well as a variety of joint ventures between them and state enter-
prises have grown rapidly (the number employed in urban individual enterprises
rose from 150,000 in 1978 to 2.31 million in 1983).
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances to the
Government budget by state enterprises. Though most enterprises have switched
to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the application of a
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of
distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems have resulted
in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed
capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they have
hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment,
de_-ite strong Government support. Financial discipline at the enterprise



- 4 -
level remains weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing
systems and more strictly enforce existing .-Mancial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area of price reform, a major price adjustment for
textiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
supply and demand, to a large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close substitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Government budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricultural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
now set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolled prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited
progress. The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
problems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kind or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
regulations.
15.      China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
abolition of the "internal settlement rate" (Y 2.8 to $1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed slowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply. In addition
to four "special economic zones" open to fcoreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.
16.      Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functions of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were
given to the newly-established Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) at the
beginning of 1984. The central bank relies on redeposit requirements and a
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes may be used to
affect profitability and supply, in the absence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is also being widened,



- 5 -
with enterprises investing in each other and in joint ventures and in some
cases purchases of stocks by individuals occurring. Though restrictions on
secondary trading remain, Government bonds purchased by individuals now can be
sold to banks or used as collateral for loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospects
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984, which reaffirmed and consolidated
recent reforms and gives some general guidelines for the direction of future
reform. It emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in the following areas:
(a) enlivening and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) clearly separating
Government and enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by
Government organizations in enterprises' day-to-day operations); (c) reforming
the price system; (d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system;
(e) establishing a planning system that is in harmony with greater reliance on
the market mechanism and developing indirect macroeconomic management; (f) up-
grading managerial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed
economy; (g) removing obstacles to a unified national market and promoting
cooperation and technology transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utiliza-
tion of foreign capital and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the
document are the role of competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible
economic system; the recognition that a certain degree of income inequality is
necessary to provide better incentives for economic development; the need for
clear responsibilities and appropriate incentives at all levels in the
economy; and the recognition that thoroughgoing price reform must involve
liberalizing the mode of price determination, not just adjustments in
administratively set prices. Managers of large state-owned enterprises,
however, will still be appointed by Government organizations; a few key
products will still be subject to mandatory planning and distribution by the
Governmient; state ownership and control over certain institutions like banks
and railways will net be relinquished; and establishment, relocation, changing
product lines, mergers, and shutdown of enterprises will still be subject to
Government approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which will help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures will take a considerable length of time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required will be very difficult, particularly
since reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appro-
priate sequencing and coordination become essential. For example, price
reform in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will
have limited benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result
from tighter financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of
distorted prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be
incomplete without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enter-
prises (which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their
workers and in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and
replacing them with Government supported social service programs.



-6 -
19.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6%
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. There will be major structural changes in
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction in the share of
agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There will also be a shift within agriculture,
away from grain and basic crops and into cash crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will ninder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with the developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial
improvements in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a
constraint on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In
energy, shortages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to
constrain growth as they do now. Transport and commercial infrastructure will
become increasing drags on the economy without large new investments (as well
as improvements in efficiency). In mobilizing resources in all these areas,
China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally, the rising
share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown in popu-
lation growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to main-
taining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are a major problem which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient utilization of existing technology must be
dealt with by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories.
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a
beneficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to
the fore.  Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary,
and other instruments is one of the most important ones. In this context,
maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the Government no longer accounts for
the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical
downturns) will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of
living for the population and an appropriate level of social services will
become a major challenge as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in
these areas are reduced. The problem of poor, backward rural areas in various
parts of the country will continue to require attention. Redistribution of
financial resources through the fiscal system, easing restrictions on migra-
tion out of the poorest areas, and lower nonagricultural wages to make invest-
ment in them more attractive are among the ootions for alleviating poverty in
these areas.



- 7 -
23.       The Government is now in the process of finalizing its Seventh Five
Year Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentially
fundamental reforms and the urgent need for large investments in many parts of
the economy to build the foundation for further growth makes this task a
difficult one. In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for
rapid, sustained economic growth and development, China will need to rely in
part on foreign borrowing. This is recognized by the Government, which plans
to gradually draw down its substantial foreign exchange reserves and hopes to
attract foreign capital through a variety of channels. China also has a claim
to concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of
the world. But its access to concessionary capital to finance its development
and modernization program is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a
significant amount of concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan
and a few other bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-
600 million p.a. during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       For China to sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, with
increases in efficiency and innovation while maintaining equity in distribu-
t-ion, will require continuing and fundamental reforms. These challenges are
compounded by China's large investment requirements and the difficulties
associated with its efforts to open up to the rest of the world. In light of
this, there are several broad objectives for the Bank to pursue in its
relationship with China. First, the Bank can offer China its development
experience and institutional knowledge as well as the opportunity for
interaction with the Bank's other member countries. Second, the Bank can
assist China in removing major constraints on development and in improving
investment planning and policy coordination in the priority sectors - particu-
larly energy, transport, other infrastructure, human development and
industry. Third, the Bank can assist the Government in its efforts to remove
the remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulated in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report.  However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the strategy,
therefore, the Bank's lending operations will aim to create a substantial
demonstration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts. For
example, projects involving new techniques for land development or for provi-
sion of social services have been designed so that they can be repeated by
local authorities within their existing resources. Some of the agriculture
projects and the rural health projects are examples of this approach. The
introduction of international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first
to finance goods, and later civil works) is now being adopted by the
Government for most local purchases and many domestic construction projects.
26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project planning and through institution building. Preparation



- 8 -
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the
Agricultural Bank of China, consultant assistance and the EDI sponsored
programs, as well as specific sector work in transport, industry, health,
education and other sectors have improved the quality and content of project
proposals. Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff
training, consultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions,
and improvement of costing and financial management has been included in a
number of projects ranging from the ports and railway projects to the several
education and petroleum projects. Specific sector work in enterprise manage-
ment, urban development, health and industry has also provided assistance for
improvement of investment efficiency.
27.       Human resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's development. There are severe scarcities of higher level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty alleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water supply projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional
development options address poverty, health and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technology in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance iL China's efforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
development and are wasting valuable energy resources. Here, the Bank can
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,
agriculture and even education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equipment imports, provision of foreign consulting assistance,
arrangement of training and promotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new technology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing under the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, water, and some agriculture proiects, and the Bank will continue
these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Bank involvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sector Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was initially designed in part as
a learning experience to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy. It also introduced the
Government to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has allowed economic and sector work to be particularly relevant to the
problems of adjustment and reform which have been in the forefront for the
Government. Followup to the first economic report emphasized technical
assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection techniques



and enhanced sector planning. The content of the lending program has been
directly influenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China
Investment Bank projects, and future regional industry projects are among
examples of the links between economic and sector work and the lending
program.
32.       More fundamental research into the problems of enterprise management
is now nearing completion in collaboration with Chinese economic research
institutions. It has yielded insights into the thinking and reaction of
enterprise managers to system reform and led to better understanding of how
policy changes can improve pLanning, performance and management of
enterprises. In addition, there is a variety of project-related sector work
underway through studies included in the projects. These are expected to
produce the basis for detailed discussion of development options and policies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000 and a comprehensive report will be ready later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in making the transition from low
to middle income levels, the report will pay special attention to inter-
sectoral linkages and cross-sectoral and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
the economic report and will look in more detail at some of the issues
raised. It will continue to improve our knowledge of the economy - its struc-
ture, the issues and constraints in key sectors, and the functioning of the
economic management system. Collaboration on issues of institutional and
policy change with Chinese research institutions will continue. Review of the
investment program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90) is
finalized will help develop the next generation of projects for the lending
program.
Lending Operations
35.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 19 projects involving lending of $1883 million to China have been
approved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of September 30, 1984. For this fiscal year we hope to present a total of ten
projects to the Board. These include the already approved Second Agricultural
Research Project, the proposed Second Power Project and projects in educatior.,
seeds development, coal mining, rural water supply, railways, roads, ferti-
lizer production, and irrigation.
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current levels. Areas of emphasis would include development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
technology. We will also investigate the feasibility of a regional approach
in a number of sectors and will take better account of intersectoral linkages.
37.       In the energy sector, lending has included four projects, which have
emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through financing
of equipment, technical studies, training and consultant assistance. The



- 10 -
Lubuge Hydropower Project has resulted in the Government's extensive use of
competitive bidding for power projects. A proposed Second Power Project
places particular emphasis on better system planning. Fuel alternatives for
electric power, generating plant location and interconnection of power grids
will be the subject of future work. For development of China's petroleum and
coal resources, Bank Group assistance will emphasize acquisition of
appropriate technologies, least cost planning of investment and related
transport investment programs.
38.       In the transport sector, railway, port and road capacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and railways has
focussed on increasing capa-ity, upgrading technology for lower cost opera-
tions, and establishing better costing systems. Expanding domestic capacity
to manufacture improved transport equipment will continue to be a theme in the
sector andi this should provide scope for substantial foreign private sector
involvemient. Improved management and information systems and analytical
techniques for better cost control will be encouraged under the projects,
which, once proven, will be suitable for wider use throughout transport enter-
prises. inter-modal coordination and planning and assessment of alternative
investment choices will have increasing prominence in both lending and sector
work.
39.       in agriculture, five proJects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, production increases through new land
development, reclamation, use of improved technologies and management. and
strengthening of the agriculture credit system. Future projects in seeds
development, forestry and agriculture credit will continue to strengthen sup-
port services and rural institutions. Land and area development projects will
endeavor to provide models of integrated regional development. Specialized
activity projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be
developed to support on-going structural transformation in agriculture.
40o       In the industrial sector, two projects have focused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Bank. Improved investment selection
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technology transfer, and
energy conservation are priorities for future projects. Lending will have a
two-pronged approach - further strengthening of the China Investment Bank (and
perhaps other financial intermediaries) and financing large regional
production-oriented projects such as for fe.-tilizer, machine tools, and
cement, to expand output and demovstrate the merits of improved subsector
analysis and planning.
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. The
human resource constraints have already been addressed by four education
projects and a component of the Rural Health/Medical Education Project. The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational policy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utilization, laboratory experiments per-
formed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and monitoring



procedures and greater decentralization). Future projects in health, urban
development and water supply will assist the Government in addressing diffi-
cult poverty-linked questions of affordability, cost recovery, and minimum
standards with focus on particularly impoverished regions.
42.       Implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
well. While there were some initial delays in procurement because of the
Government's unfamiliarity with the concept of bidding, it has since estab-
l.si-i a specialized central prncurement agency and has largely overcome this
problem. Most project agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the
State Planning Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank
Group projects- To support further expansion of the lending program,
accelerate project preparation, improve project implementation, and facilitate
further economic and sector work, the Bank Group is planning to open a
resident office in China early in FY86.
PART III - ENGINEERING Ai  ECONOMICS/FINANCE EDUCATION
Overview
43.       Higher education, the primary source of high-level manpower, is
provided by comprehensive universities, and by colleges and institutes which
specialize in certain fields (e.g., agriculture, medicine, engineering)-
Education policy is formulated by the Central Committee of the Chinese
Commmnist Party in cooperation with the State Council. The Ministry of
Education (MOE) is responsible for overall administration of the education
system in the country, including higher education. Day-to-day management of
higher education institutions is the responsibility of a 7ariety of ministries
of the central government and provincial/municipal governments. The
institutional structure of higher education has changed little since the
1950s. While primary and secondary education have expanded rapidly since
1949, higher education has progressed at a slower rate partly due to political
events which virtually halted its development between 1966-76. A recent
analysis of higher education by the Bank has pointed out a number of
structural, qualitative and managerial problems requiring policy adjustments.
Level and Structure of Enrollment
44.       There are two dimensions to the manpower constraint:  the low level
of overall university enrollment and the imbalance of enrollment structure.
The information submitted by central and provincial government agencies for
the annual planning and allocation of university intake and output indicates
that shortages of professional and technical manpower exist in all fields.
Between 1981 and 1983, t'.: overall supply of university graduates could meet
only about half of the r-iuirements. While the development of the economy
calls for the expansion of the university sector as a whole, the structure of
enrollment needs adJustment to meet the changing pattern of manoower require-
ments. The imbalance between manpower supply and requirements has been
particularly acute in engineering and economics/finance which are essential
for technological and managerial improvements of ihe ecoiscov. As a result of
serious manpower shortages in those two fields, central agercies in charge of



- 12 -
priority industries and banking and financing services have to function at
suboptimal level with underqualified personnel. The university system is
further constrained by the limited size of its postgraduate programs. Action
is needed urgently to increase enrollments in engineering and economics/
finance, and expand post-graduate education.
ENROLLMENT IN ENGINEERING AND ECONOMICSIFINANCE
1983 AND 1990
Enrollment               % of total
('000)                  enrollment
1983     9ggo            1983      1990
Undergraduate
Engineering                 419       713              35       31
Economics/Finance            71       178               6         8
Postgraduate
Engineering                   16       50               4         7
Economics/Finance             5        14               7        8
Quality
45.       To increase the potential effectiveness and productivity of
graduates in the fields of engineering and economics/finance, several areas
need to be strengthened: curricula, control of standards, teachers,
experimental work, and academic support services.
46.       Curricula.  The present curricula are too rigid due to overspeciali-
zation, and courses essential for China's modernization are unavailable due to
the past general neglect of social sciences. Basic adjustments in the curri-
cula are necessary to support changes in China's development strategy by
reducing the numbers of specialties and specialized courses as well as
introducing new courses to broaden the curricula. There are 11 major fields
within the university system: engineering, agriculture, forestry, medicine,
education, humanities, science, economics/finance, politics, physical
education, and arts. Among these fields, there are about 800 specialties in
which students are enrolled from their first year. Ministries and commissions
organized by narrowly grouped economic sectors have established their own
universities to supply most of the personnel needed for specific jobs in their
own agencies. Due to their dominant concern with short-term manpower
requirements, the curricula are oriented towards the formation of vocational
skills rather than broad understanding of principles and analytical skills.
The narrow specialization at undergraduate level is therefore limited in its
capacity to train manpower with flexibility and mobility in the labor market.



- 13 -
47.       While there are too many specialties, the coverage of courses is
inadequate. In particular, economics/finance received low priority during the
Cultural Revolution and is inadequate to serve the economic system which is
undergoing reform and adjustment. The Government plans to improve efficiency
in economic planning and management through incentives to stimulate priority
industries, and move towards an open economy. These modernization programs
require corresponding adjustments in training programs by introducing such
courses as pricing policy, industrial management, international finance, and
information processing.
48.       Minimum Standards.  There is no system to ensure the minimum quality
of university education. Since the university system is expanding rapidly and
the financial responsibility for the operation of provincial universities is
being transferred from the central government to the provinces, it is
important to create a review system of university quality. An initial action
was taten in 1981 as part of a process to authorize universities to grant
postgraduate degrees. The National Commission on Academic Degrees under the
State Council reviews reports submitted by universities which wish to intro-
duce new postgraduate programs in light of standards set for doctorate and
master's degrees, in particular, specialties proposed, staff supervisory
capacity, research programs, and facilities for experiments. However, no
system of periodic assessment of university quality, either postgraduate or
undergraduate, exists to ensure that those standards are satisfactorily
implemented by universities.
49.       Teachers. There are three principal issues concerning university
faculty: (a) their knowledge and technical skills are in general outdated;
(b) some teachers who were recruited during the Cultural Revolution are not
suited to teaching; and (c) there are few experts in the new courses required
for modernization. To help rectify these problems, it will be necessary to
accelerate expansion of in-country aad overseas pre- and in-service training,
and exchange of Chinese and foreign scholars, and to enforce retirement age
and transfer policies. China lost a decade of progress from 1966 to 1976 when
university education was seriously hurt. As a result few young people were
fully trained to succeed senior faculty members. When the national entrance
examination was reintroduced in 1977 and universities reopened, China was left
with serious deficiencies in university education and research and in the
teaching force. Leading professors and associate professors are both exper-
ienced and well-qualified in terms of educational background. They are,
however, aged and constitute only 11% of the total faculty since no promotions
took place between 1966 and 1976. All these factors point to the need to
build up a strong, younger university faculty. Another effect of the Cultural
Revolution is that a small group of teachers recruited during that period are
not suited to teaching. They were recruited based on their political rather
than their academic qualifications. Finally, the neglect of university
education has left China with a severe shortage of experts who are urgently
needed to develop new courses for modernization.
50.       Experimental Work.  The implementation of the engineering curriculum
is impaired by inadequate experimental work in terms of both the content of
experiments and the availability of equipment. To solve these problems there
must be change in emphasis in experiments and provision of modern and



- 14 -
appropriate equipment. First, experiments are presently designed to
illustrate relatively complex and specialized problems to serve the particular
requirements of industries. Instead, it is necessary to give priority to
experiments which demonstrate basic principles and mechanisms learned in the
course work. Second, due to the inappropriateness or simply the alsence of
experimental equipment. only 60% of advanced and specialized experiments of
the engineering curriculum, and 69% of undergraduate and basic experiments are
performed. Equipment for undergraduate courses is mostly old and obsolete, or
too complex to demonstrate principles and single mechanisms.  Advanced edu-
cation and research suffer from the lack of modern experimental equipment as
well as testing and measuring equipment.
51.       Academic Support Services.  Academic support services such as compu-
ter centers, libraries, and audio-visual centers are severely limited. To
increase the effect of instruction and research, these support services need
to be strengthened. Universities have a serious shortage of computers which
underwent rapid development and innovation during the period of China's
isolation. Similarly, universities have to restore their library collections
which are out-of-date and insufficient, and modernize libraries with the use
of computerized information systems. In addition, audio-visual aids and
equipment are needed to improve foreign language teaching and to reach a
greater number of students through the use of television programs.
Efficiency in Planning and Management
52.       Universities remain inefficient in terms of planning and management
of their physical and human resources. Improvements are needed in manpower
planning, student admissions, physical facilities planning, resource utiliza-
tion, and management organization of higher education institutions. In addi-
tion, the establishment of a system to monitor and evaluate the performance of
development projects is needed to improve decision-making. Present manpower
planning is deficient in its time span and methodology. Manpower requirements
are estimated on a short-term (annual) basis as part of the allocation process
of graduates. Enterprises estimate their own requirements for workers based
on their output targets for the next year and submit them to the State
Planning Commission (SPC). These estimates by individual enterprises are par-
tial without information on the plans of other enterprises in the sector
economic agents and cover too short a period to be useful for education
planning. The existing planning methods for physical facilities are too
generous and standardized. The Construction Bureau of the MOE has set design
and cost standards for major disciplines (e.g., engineering, social sciences,
medicine) and for different types and sizes of facilities such as classrooms,
dormitories and libraries. The Production and Supply Bureau of MOE is
responsible for laboratory standards and equipment supply. Unit capital and
recurrent costs are reviewed every five years. The last review took place in
1978. The 1983 review was delayed and is being carried out now. Investment
programs for civil works and equipment are, however, prepared by simply
applying a set of unit costs to the incremental increase in enrollment by a
target year. Inventories of physical facilities and their utilization by a
more refined breakdown of items should be prepared and incorporated for
improved facilities planning. The utilization of human and physical resources
remains low. There are on average only four students per teacher in



- 15 -
engineering and six students per teacher in social sciences. The utilization
rates of libraries and laboratories are also low. Techniques to efficiently
manage resources have to be improved. Ministries have set up their own
training institutions to meet their personnel requirement. As a result, the
administrative responsibility of universities is compartmentalized. Of the
805 higher education institutions 65% are administered by the central
government and the rest by local governments. Among central agencies, MOE
administers only about 15% and many other technical ministries manage the
remaining 85% of institutions. The present management organization of
universities needs to be reviewed. China has embarked on a number of develop-
ment projects in recent years aimed at the reform and expansion of the
university system. In 1981, MOE established a Foreign Investment and Loan
Office for the execution of projects with external financial assistance. The
overall capacity for project planning and execution has improved significantly
with the support of Chinese and foreign specialists. However, a system to
monitor implementation and evaluate results is needed to assist in the
decision-making process.
Government's Objectives, Strategy and Program
53.       Objectives.  As an integral element of modernization efforts, the
Government's objectives address the major issues of the engineering and econ-
omics/finance subsector as presented above, namely, reforms and adjustments in
the enrollment size and structure, quality and efficiency. First, the Govern-
ment aims to increase undergraduate enrollment at an average rate of about 10%
p.a. between 1983 and 1990. Within the overall expansion, the Government
plans to expand economics/finance at a faster rate of 14% p.a. in support of
development needs. Engineering will grow at a rate of 8% p.a. These rates of
growth in the two disciplines are expected to meet high-level technical and
managerial manpower needs as foreseen by central and provincial governments.
Postgraduate enrollments would also be expanded at a rate of 17% p.a. Second,
the Government will improve the quality of engineering and economics/finance
education in terms of curricula, teachers, experimental work and academic
support services. The curricula will be broadened by reducing the number of
specialties and specialized technical courses while introducing new courseg
necessary for modernization. The quality of teachers will be revitalized by
lowering their average age, transferring staff unsuitable for teaching to
other occupations, and upgrading teachers' educational and professional quali-
fications so that all lecturers and above will have a minimum of master's
degree or equivalent. Improvements will be made to modernize laboratories,
workshops, computer centers, libraries and audio-visual centers. Third, the
Government aims to increase efficiency through improvement in planning and
management related to manpower development, the university entrance
examination system, physical facilities, resource utilization, project
monitoring and evaluation. It is also addressing the diseconomy of size of
individual institutions by emphasizing expansion of enrollment in existing
institutions rather than creation of new ones.
54.       Strategy.  The Government faces two major constraints to achieving
the subsector objectives: financing, in particular local budgets for dormi-
tory construction and foreign exchange for advanced equipment, books and jour-
nals, and technical assistance; and qualified staff to teach and research in



- 16 -
modern fields of technology and social sciences. In view of these financial
and staff constraints, the Government has put forward a strategy which calls
for a selective and phased approach. It will attach priority to engineering
and economics/finance as the graduates of these disciplines are most in demand
for national development. Within these two disciplines, the Government has
selected 120 specialties as priority areas. These specialties will be streng-
thened in about 500 selective departments in universities in three phases
between 1985 and 1994. The first phase will strengthen these priority
specialties in about 150 departments in universities managed by the central
government.  The second phase will develop these specialties in another 150
departments in universities managed by provincial governments. The third
phase will improve the same specialties in about 200 departments in univer-
sities under both central and local governments.
55.       Program. Based on a set of targets for qualitative and quantitative
increase, MOE has prepared an investment program for the subsector. Within
the time slice of July 1985 to June 1989, the total expenditure for the
engineering and economics/finance subsector is estimated to be on the order of
Y 2.2 billion at 1985 prices with an annual average of about Y 0.4 billion.
The projected development expenditures consist of about 55% for civil works,
34% for equipment and 11% for technical assistance.
Bank Group Participation in the Education Sector and the Proposed Prolect
56.       The introductory economic report stated that China's reconstruction
programs would call for: (a) the revitalization of higher education as the
most urgent task for the provision of scientific and technical manpower; (b)
the development of vocational education and training for the supply of trained
skilled workers; and (c) the strengthening of pre- and in-service teacher
training for the improvement of primary and secondary school teachers. In
line with these recommendations, the Bank Group has been supporting China's
development in human resources by extending financing for higher education. A
University Development Project (Ln. 2021/Cr. 1167-CHA, $200 million) was
approved in 1981 and is assisting major universities in the fields of science
and technology. The Bank Group has also extended two loans/credits totaling
$144 million for the development of agricultural manpower in 1982 and 1984
(Cr. 1297-CHA, Ln. 2444/Cr. 1500-CHA), a credit of $85 million in 1983 to the
development of polytechnics and a television university (Cr. 1411-CHA), and a
credit of $85 million in 1984 to the improvement of rural health and medical
education (Cr. 1472-CHA).
57.       Experience gained to date in the projects and a continuous sector
dialogue on matters concerning high-level manpower development stress two
important lessons. First, many university issues stem from systemic factors
related to policies and management practices. Future Bank lending to the
university sector should therefore be increasingly designed to serve as an
instrument in the Bank's continuing dialogue with the Government on university
policy and reform. Second, the experience points out the importance of timely
establishment of key implementation units to help ensure the success of a
project. To address these findings, the proposed project is designed to be a
step toward such policy-focused lending in order to provide the high-level
technical and managerial manpower needed for economic development. The



- 17 -
project would assist the Government with the acceleration of existing, as well
as formulation and implementation of new, policy and institutional changes
related to engineering and economics/finance education in the areas of
enrollment, curricula, faculty and management. In addition, two groups of
experts for the proposed project have been established at an advanced stage,
viz., a Chinese review commission and an international advisory panel, so that
their assistance and advice to MOE on project implementation would be timely,
in particular for fellowship training and equipment purchase.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
58.       The proposed project was prepared by the MOE.  It was appraised in
March 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington from January 7 to 11,
1985. The Chinese delegation was led by Mr. Luo Qing, Deputy Director,
External Finance Department, the Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 5271b-CHA) is being circulated separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives and ScoPe
59.       The proposed project would support the first phase (July 1985 - June
1989) of the Government's long-term program (1985-1994) to increase high-level
technical and managerial manpower through adjustments in enrollment, quality
and efficiency related to engineering and economics/finance education. To
achieve this goal, the project would implement a program of action on policy
and institutional changes which would address three basic issues of the
subsector: low level and imbalanced structure of enrollment, inadequate
quality, and inefficient planning and management. The Government submitted to
the Association a signed letter of policy and the program of action describing
the Government's objectives and planned course of action for the subsector.
60.       To increase enrollment and redress structural imbalance the project
would: (a) expand engineering, economics/finance and postgraduate education
programs at differential growth rates to adjust the imbalance of the overall
university enrollment structure in response to development needs; and (b) give
priority in resource allocation to faculties which have relatively stronger
implementation and leadership capacity in engineering and economics/finance,
to create leading centers for training personnel for and from other
institutions and related industries.
61.       To improve quality the project would broaden undergraduate curricula
in engineering and economics/finance by reducing the number of specialties,
increasing the proportion of general and basic courses, and introducing new
courses to produce graduates who could meet the demands emerging from the
modernization program. In addition it would revitalize the teaching force in
engineering and economics/finance by lowering the average age through enforce-
ment of a retirement policy, transferring unsuitable staff to non-teaching
jobs through the implementation of a displacement policy, accelerating
in-service training as well as postgraduate education as the source for new



- 18 -
teachers, and promoting outstanding young teachers as replacement for retired
and displaced teachers. To improve experimental/research work as part of the
required engineering and rconomics/finance curricula, existing laboratories
and workshops would be modernized and new ones built with appropriate
equipment. Finally, to strengthen academic support services the project would
improve libraries, computer centers, and audio-visual centers.
62.       Planning and management capabilities would be increased through
improving the Planning and Research Office within the MOE. This would be
achieved by introducing new procedures to improve planning and maintenance of
facilities; increasing the student/staff ratio, utiliz, -n rates of class-
rooms, laboratories and libraries, and the proportion of commuting students;
and establishing a mechanism to monitor and evaluate education development
projects by creating a central unit within the MOE and local units within
individual universities. In addition, the proposed project would include
studies to introduce new policies on quality and management. The studies
would deal with university quality monitoring and evaluation, student
admission, and the management of universities as institutions and as a system.
63.       To assist in the above policy and institutional development objec-
tives, the proposed project would contain: (a) about 35 subprojects with
financing of mainly instructional and research materials, equipment, and civil
works including furniture to meet the needs of individual universities; and
(b) five national programs with financing of primarily technical assistance to
meet the needs of the whole of the engineering and economics/finance
subsector.
Action Program
Enrollment Level and Structure Adiustment
64.       Concentration on Engineering and Economics/Finance.  The project
would concentrate on the expansion of engineering and economics/finance in
support of the most acute manpower needs. The enrollment expansion of these
disciplines would be guided by Government's policy objectives which call for
faster increase particularly in economics/finance and postgraduate programs.
The eligibility criteria for subprojects and the guidelines for allocation of
credit proceeds would ensure the implementation of these project objectives.
65.       Development of Selected Departments.  In support of the Government's
strategy of making effective use of limited resources, the proposed project
would assist in the selective development of about 120 engineering and about
30 economics/finance departments. The eligibility criteria would ensure the
selection of departments with relatively stronger academic and research
programs supported by qualified faculty and physical plants.
Quality Improvement
66.       Curricula.  To supply graduates with increased adaptability for
modernization, a policy would be implemented to broaden the existing overspec-
ialized curricula. The number of specialties in engineering and economics/
finance would be reduced and the composition of curricula would become less



- 19 -
specialized by decreasing the proportion of specialized technical courses. On
the other hand, new courses would be introduced to meet the demand created by
the increasingly dynamic development process.
67.       Teaching Force.  The Government's policies would include the revita-
lization of engineering and economics/finance faculty through several
measures: implementation of the retirement age policy, transfer of unsuitable
staff to nonteaching jobs, accelerated in-service training, accelerated promo-
tion of promising young teachers and exchange of personnel between universi-
ties and between universities and industries. To enhance the quality of
teachers, the proposed project would assist in two types of in-service
training: a program to upgrade educational and professional qualifications of
teachers below 45 years old; and a program to create the main teaching force
to fill senior positions. Under the management of the Cadre Development
Department of MOE, about 3% of teachers would annually receive in-service
training in the country. Out of the 805 institutions of higher education, 90
have been selected as centers for in-service training with an emphasis on new
subject areas. The program for the creation of the main teaching force would
build up about 3,000 core teachers.
68.       The project would include financing for overseas fellowships and
foreign specialist services in engineering and economics/finance. The project
would also finance equipment for printing and copying for two training centers
which would prepare materials necessary for in-service training to be estab-
lished at Beijing Normal Uni.Tersity in the north and at Wuhan University in
the south. Fellowships under the project would be awarded in accordance with
the agreed selection procedures and guidelines (Section 3.07 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
69.       Experimental Work.  To help strengthen the engineering curriculum,
the proposed project would improve the quality of experimental and research
work by providing needed equipment at the subproject universities for both
undergraduate practical training and graduate training and research related to
priority specialties. The laboratory facilities would be either renovated or
newly built.
70.       Academic Support Services.  The proposed project would improve
academic support services in subproject universities such as computer centers,
audio-visual centers and libraries. The project would assist identified
universities in equipping computer centers with suitable size computer and
necessary micro and personal computers, and in developing the use of audio-
visual aids to teaching in language courses and production of TV programs to
reach students in remote areas. The project would also increase and improve
the subproject universities' libraries. Computers and software programs
selected would be compatible with those within a university or locality to
increase computer flexibility and power once networking becomes technically
feasible.
Planning and Management
71.       Manpower Deve.lopment Planning.  To improve the longer-term planning
of manpower and enrollment requirements, the project would strengthen the



- 20 -
Planning and Research Office created within the MOE in 1983. The project
would support the Office with specialist services and fellowships in relevant
areas of economics, education and statistics to improve the data base and
planning methodology.
72.       Facilities Planning and Maintenance.  To improve facilities and
equipment planning, the project would finance specialist services in the areas
of architecture and equipment planning. In addition, a study on depreciation
allowances for the replacement of unserviceable and obsolete equipment would
be conducted as part of the larger study on university management under the
project. Depending upon the outcome of the study and initial experience in
selected subproject universities, MOE would suggest to the Government the
introduction of a depreciation allowance system. This system would then be
gradually extended to the entire subsector and to higher education in a time
span compatible with the Government's financial capability.
73.       Resource Utilization.  To increase physical and human resource
utilization, the proposed project would improve three types of efficiency-
related coefficients. First, the expansion of teachers and students would
reduce the teacher:student ratio from the present 1:4 in engineering and 1:6
in economics/finance, to 1:6 and 1:7 in 1987, and to 1:7 and 1:10 in 1990,
respectively. Second, the utilization of laboratories and libraries would
increase as they received more equipment and books. Third, the proportion of
students who commute to universities would be increased from the present 3% of
all university students, to 5% in 1987, and to 10% in 1990. It is expected
that by 1990 the adjustments in these coefficients would lower the unit capi-
tal costs for civil works by approximately 10%. To assist in the adminis-
tration of university resources, the project would finance specialist services
in such areas as scheduling of classes and laboratory work, management of
support services, and personnel and budget planning.
74.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would introduce a system to
monitor and evaluate policy objectives and the course of action for output
increase, quality improvement, and planning and management development. The
system would consist of a central unit within the MOE, and a local unit at
each of the subproject universities. The central unit has been created under
a steering committee of five members representing MOE's Departments I and II
of Higher Education, the Department of Planning and the Foreign Investment and
Loan Office, and the Education Bureau of the State Planning Commission. The
unit itself consists of two professionals and one administrative staff.
Subproject units have also been established within the office of the president
or the vice president of subproject universities. The Government would
monitor and evaluate the progress achieved in carrying out the action program,
and maintain the monitoring and evaluation units with competent staff in
adequate numbers, and with functions and responsibilities agreed with the
Association, until such date as may be agreed between the Government and the
Association (Section 4.03(a)(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Studies
75.       In order to provide an information base for the Government to
further develop policy objectives and an implementation strategy, the project



- 21 -
v.ould support studies in the areas of: monitoring and evaluation of
university standards; the entrance examination; and the management of higher
education institutions, both individually and as a system. The studies would
be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and schedules agreed with
the Association and a summary and analysis of the findings of the studies
would be promptly prepared and furnished to the Association when they are
available (Section 3.08 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Management and Implementation
76.       Management.  The preparation and appraisal of suLwrojects and
national programs under the proposed project would be prepared, appraised and
implemented by the Government, specifically by MOE, with selective review by
Association staff. This management arrangement would be feasible given MOE's
strong past performance in previous education projects and satisfactory
project management arrangements. This approach would also help further build
up the management capacity of MOE, other ministries and universities and
contribute to institutional development in China. It would also be
advantageous because of the large number of institutions geographically
dispersed throughout the country and the wide coverage of specialties.
National programs and subprojects would however be processed according to
agreed procedures, criteria and guidelines to ensure effectiveness and
efficiency in achieving their objectives (Section 3.06 of draft Development
Credit Agreement).
77.       Responsible Organizations.  Overall responsibility for coordination
and decision-making on matters related to the proposed project would be with a
Central Coordinating Committee which has already been established. This
Committee is composed of representatives of the State Planning Commission
(SPC), the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the MOE. Day-to-day implementation
work and the liaison between the Government and the Association would be the
responsibility of the MOE's Foreign Investment and Loan Office. Specific
responsibilities would be assigned to other MOE departments and related
agencies. A working group composed of members from seven MOE departments and
assisted by staff seconded from project universities would provide the
secretariat for the Central Coordinating Committee; the education departments
in other ministries which are in charge of the institutions under their
ministries would participate in the working group whenever appropriate and
serve as the liaison between MOE and other ministries/agencies concerned.
Each subproject university would establish an implementation unit to assist
the *-entral unit on implementation matters and also for monitoring and
evaluation. To assist and advise MOE in overall implementation of the
propcsed project, a Chinese Review Commission and an International Advisory
Panel, each consisting of three experts in engineering, economics and finance,
have also been created. The costs for the Commission and the Panel incurred
before credit signing are paid from the proceeds of the first University
Development Project. These two bodies and the Central Coordinating Committee
would be maintained until such time as the Government and the Association
determine (Section 3.01(b) and 4.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
78.       Implementation.  Procedures for equipment and technical assistance
procurement acceptable to the Association have been prepared. The project



- 22 -
would support the implementation period of four and a half years between July
1985 and December 1989. The Completion Date would be December 31, 1989, and
the Closing Date December 31, 1990.
79.       Reportina and Review.  The Foreign Investment and Loan Office would
be responsible for reporting to the Government and the Association.  The
Office would prepare an annual progress and evaluation report for submission
to the Association for review. These reports, including quantitative progress
on agreed project target indicators, would form the basis of comprehensive
annual reviews with the Association by November of each year during which
targets for the subsequent year would be set.  An in-depth, mid-term review of
progress towards the targets and of the overall investment program would also
take place with the Association in around November 1987 (Section 4.03(c)(d) of
draft Development Credit Agreement).
80.       Status of Prolect Preparation.  MOE received 45 subproject appli-
cations and after appraisal selected 34 for approval. All subprojects have
now been approved by MOE and the State Council. The Association reviewed a
representative sample of about 15% of subprojects and five national programs
and found that the proposed eligibility and appraisal criteria had been
applied and the subprojects and national programs were acceptable. Draft
terms of reference for specialists to be appointed in the first year of
implementation have been prepared and will be reviewed and finalized in early
1985. All terms of reference and schedules for studies have been prepared and
are acceptable to the Association. The commercial terms within the bidding
documents used for previous Bank-assisted education projects would continue to
be used. The first phase of equipment procurement would include equipment
mainly for basic training and the second phase would include equipment for
advanced training and research. Initial schedules of requirements and
technical specifications for basic training equipment have been prepared and
will be finalized in early 1985 after review by the Chinese Review Commission
and the International Advisory Panel. Equipment procurement for first phase
implementation, technical assistance and studies would therefore proceed soon
after credit signing.
Investment Program and Financing
81.       The total amount of the subsector investment program to be carried
out between July 1985 and June 1989 is estimated at about Y 2.2 billion or
$0.8 billion equivalent excluding contingencies. The investment program is
reasonable in relation to needs and feasible as its annual average represents
only about 2% of the expected annual average total investment for education.
The program costs include: (a) construction and renovation of physical
facilities, and furniture; (b) locally procured and imported equipment, books
and journals; and (c) technical assistance for specialist services, exchange
programs, fellowships, studies and future project preparation. The
Association would finance $145 million equivalent (about 12.4% of total
program cost), which would represent about 31% of the estimated foreign
exchange costs. The Government would finance the remaining costs. All cost
estimates are based on January 1985 prices.  Construction costs were based on
recent unit prices and building areas discounted at about two thirds of MOE
standards for improved efficiency. Equipment costs were based on MOE stand-



- 23 -
ards and recent bid prices under ongoing Bank Group-assisted educacion pro-
jects. The foreign exchange components are estimated as follows: ci- 1
works, 11%; equipment, 90%; specialists services, 90%; exchange programs, 10%;
fellowships including local training, 20%; studies, 60%; and preparation of
future projects, 6%. The low foreign exchange estimate for civil works is
consistent with estimates in the Agricultural Education II Project approved in
June 19841 The contingency allowance includes physical contingencies
estimated at 10% of base costs. For the calculation of price contingencies,
*        it is assumed that exchange rate adjustments will, on average, be made to
maintain 'purchasing power parity' during the project implementation period.
On this basis, price escalation for both foreign and local costs: (a) when
expressed in US dollars, is based on expected international inflation rates of
8% in 1985, 9% in 1986, 1987 and 1988, 7.5% in 1989, and 6% in 1990 and 1991;
(b) when expressed in Yuan, is based on expected domestic inflation of 3% p a.
in 1985-91. Price contingencies thus represent 33.3% of base cost estimates
plus physical contingencies expressed in US dollars and 10% of the same total
expressed in Yuan. Cost estimates exclude duties and taxes, from which
project-financed goods would be exempt. Annual recurrent expenditures
generated by the program are estimated at about $39 million equivalent in 1990
(at 1985 prices) or about 4% of the total recurrent expenditures for higher
education, which would be a reasonable zhare of the sector.
Procurement
82.       Procurement arrangements would be largely the same as those used in
previous education projects in China and are summarized in the table below:



- 24 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMEUTS /a
($ million)
Procurement method            Total
ICB      LCB     Other     N.A.      cost
Civil works /b                        -        -      643/c       -        643
-       -       (0)        -          (0)
Equipment and instructional         108      145      145/d       -        398
materials                        (108)      (0)     (12)        -        (120)
Specialist services                   -        -       16         -          16
(5)        -         (5)
Exchange programs                     -        -       45         -         45
_       _       (1,        -          (1)
Fellowships                           -        -       24        24         48
=       _      (14)       (0)        (14)
Studies and preoaration of            -        -       12         -          12
future projects                     -        -       (5)        -         (5)
Total                          108      1415     885        24      1,162
(to8)     (0)     (37)       (0)       (145)
/a  This table covers the entire subsector investment program; figures in
parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the Association
including contingencies.
/b   Including furniture.
Tc   By assigning contracts for civil works, the traditional procurement pro-
cedure in China.
/d   Direct purchase for proprietary items or where justified by need for
standarization, limited international tendering.
Civil works including furniture, not financed by the Association, would be
procured through established local procedures. The proposed credit would
finance about $120 million equivalent of equipment, books and journals, and
about $25 million equivalent of technical assistance. About 90% of the
equipment from credit proceeds would be procured through international compe-
titive bidding (ICB) and the remainder through direct purchase or limited
international tendering.
83.       The China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) would be the
procurement agency responsible for inviting bids, participating in bid evalu-
ation and signing and enforcing contracts as under previous projects. Equip-
ment items for the project would be grouped into packages to the extent



- 25 -
possible for bulk procurement. Contracts estimated to cost $200,000 or more
would be awarded in accordance with the procurement procedures under inter-
national competitive bidding as sec out in the Bank Guidelines for Procurement
dated August 1984. Local manufacturers would be eligible to participate and
would be extended a 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duties,
whichever is lower, in bid evaluation. Items or groups of items estimated to
cost less than $200,300 in each contract and not exceeding an aggregate amount
of $12 million may be procured through: (a) limited international tendering
whereby contracts would be awarded on the basis of comparison and evaluation
of quotations obtained from at least three suppliers; or (b) direct purchase
for proprietary items or where justified by the need for standardization.
Books and journals to an aggregate value of $2 million would be procured
directly from suppliers after negotiations for the best discount. Awards on
contracts valued at $200,000 or more would be subject to prior Association
review. This review is expected to cover about 11% of the contracts and 58%
of their value. These estimates reflect the expected similarity with the
procurement experience under the first University Development Project. All
soecialists would be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to tthe Association on the basis of the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency
dated August 1981.
Disbursement
84.       Disbursement would be made on the basis of:  (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures on imported equipment, books and journals, or the ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured equipment; (b) 75% of the invoiced cost of imported
equipment procured locally; (c) 100% of the expenditures for specialist
services, exchange programs, overseas fellowships and study tours, and (d) 60%
of the cost of study contracts and preparation of future projects. In order
to facilitate the Association's processing of disbursement applications, a
minimum level for withdrawal application would be $200,000. The proposed
credit of $148 million would be disbursed over a period of 5-1/2 years. This
length is proposed based on the following: the disbursement speed of the
first University Development Project is substantially faster than the regional
average for education prujects; subprojects have already been appraised and
approved and all national programs have commenced implementation; in addition,
equipment procurement is at an advanced stage of preparation because bidding
documents are expected to be completed by April 1985.
85.       To meet the Association's documentation requirements, disbursement
applications for contracts valued at $200,000 or more would be submitted to
the Association with two copies of the contracts.  For expenditures below
$200,000 statements of expenaiture (SOEs) certified by authorized government
officials would be used. In this case contracts and supporting documents
would be retai-ned by the Foreign Investment and Loan Office of HOE, Beijing,
and made available for review by visiting Bank missions. Disbursements
against SOEs would be made on the basis of a consolidated summary, each not
less than $200,000.



- 26 -
86.       Under the proposed credit, a special account would be set up and
maintained in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the Association to facilitate
disbursement for components financed by the Association. The initial deposit
of the US dollar equivalent of SDR 7,200,000 would represent the highest three
months expenditure under the proposed project with a margin of about 20%.
Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted
quarterly, or more frequently if necessary, with certified SOEs as supporting
documentation for disbursements against expenditures under $200,000. Full
documentation would be used for disbursements against all other items.
Accounts and Audit
87.       The Government would establish and maintain accounts for the
national programs and subproject institutions expenditures as well as accounts
to record expenditures of credit proceeds. The Audit Administration of the
People's Republic of China (AAPRC) would audit all of these accounts,
including documentation of SOEs. Annual audit reports would be submitted to
the Association within eight months of the end of the Government's fiscal year
(Section 4.01(c)(ii) of draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government
would also submit a project completion report to the Association within six
months after the Closing Date (Section 3.04(d) of draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
88.       Benefits. The principal benefits of the proposed project would be
related to quantitative and qualitative gains in technical and managerial man-
power, efficiency improvement and institution building. Those benefits would
accrue through Government's action on engineering and economics/finance sub-
sector policies and institutions with its effect on performance and management
of the subsector. The shares of engineering and economics/finance enrollment
in the subsector would be adjusted to 31% and 8S respectively by 1990 to meet
projected requirements. The proportion of postgraduates in those fields would
gradually increase to 7-8% by 1990. New students would undergo programs
designed to provide broader qualification in theory and practical work, taught
by increasingly younger, higher quality faculty. The project would generate
savings to the Government with the improvement in planning and utilization of
physical facilities and staff resources. The present comprehensive dormitory
system would be modified further under the project with an increase in the
proportion of commuting students. These efficiency measures are expected to
decrease the capital cost per student by about 10%. The project would
continue to assist the Government in strengthening its subsector planning and
implementation machinery. Finally, the project would help introduce changes
in monitoring and evaluation of university quality, student admission, and
university management organization through support to studies on these topics.
89.       Risks.  An important risk associated with the proposed project is
the difficulty of coordinating implementation by some 35 subproject
universities managed by a number of ministries (about 20 are expected) and
several national programs with their impact on the entire programs of
engineering and economic/finance education. To reduce this risk, a Central
Coordinating Committee, comprising representatives of the State Planning



- 27 -
Commission, the MOE and the MOF has been created. Also a working group has
been formed in the MOE including representatives of selected subproject
universities to be responsible for day-to-day implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
90.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Coummittee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
91.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness is that China's State Council
shall have approved the Development Credit Agreement.
92.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
93.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W_ Clausen
President
Attachments
February 5, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-28-                                             ANNY    T
Page  I of 6
~ir&. isnan ER. OF - SOCUL ISDCAVOAS MT SI5
cUZN&. KOFW s    . or              Rz         cs (                   
-                                       ~~~          ~       ~~~~~~~~105?  (366? 3SI 33TSDA) lb
am~~~~~ CUDUSI 8. U)n
crmemanh so                                             95n0
nWAL                              9361.0      936L.0       2561.0.
ACKICOT0=A                        3257.6      3382.0       3538.9
CW  in Ia     ( CV 3                   40.0 Ic     80.0       310.0          278.6                   100l 2
-~-           .uinrz    m  CATZA
C52lG83S 0r OrL        nr)         1S1.0       250.0       4*.             m.0                     58.3
NOLAUW AM VITa SUTIffZC
1o01LAZIO.UD-U*  (UDOSIS)   6o78.o           845700.0   l0675.0
BMW 300185103 CI Or TOrAL)          L8.4          ..        20.6             .7                     34.7
TIS DU 2m00 M    C(L)                                    136.3
SiOUAITOVUIATIO  CHML)                                   141.0
10101203  IElZN                                             1.7 _
PER So. 5.                        71.9        88.5        103.8          166.6                   261.9
r  SO Dzi i182. LA               211.1       Zl7.9       254.8           345.5                  1735.2
101U.DWTZO   SUDCS CZ)
0-18 8S                          3119        37.7         39             35.8 3J.0
1.84 US                           56.3        57.2        63.3           59.8                     57.6
85 AND ARM                         4.B         5.1         5.5            4.3                      3.3
POUAIOI RO  Rt  Z  (Zt)_
TOTAL                              1_3         2_L          1_S            1.9                     2.3
n8*                                 .,          ..           ..            4.1                     4-3
c06 3KI33 NATE (1P  UDUS)           39.2 1.     34.0         18.5          Zi.7                     30.1
3 MAZZ RATS Cm To0)                 23.37;      10.1         8.8           10.1                      9.5
GOSS NflIoU3 3m                      2.8 _-      2.3         1.2            1.8                     2.0
ACETORS, AXMAL (WOU                 ..S.
ams aC  uZLD Dm                      .          .-        89. If           ..                     52.7
toz r PM0 Lm  PMCAr
(1369-71-100)                                   O 100.0    124.0          ZLUL                     123.0
PM CAPITA SPLY or
C*10l[5Z  CZ      W Or  UI31NTS)  93.0        88.o        107.0           97.7                   114.4
PEOT35 (GW36S PM DAY)             56.0        53.0        66.0           56.6                     57.0
or   C3 a5mw. AD PmLc           16.0         18.0        17.0o          L 4.9                   14.1
CH=  CAGS 1-4) DUr =                26.0        14.0         7.0            9.8                      7.2
LIwc ECr. AX 32 C*S)    '   41.0 /b             52.3        68.5           80.0                     60.4
UWUATr MM. uAT cm  ns) *           165.07;    109.0         67.0           83.8                     66.3
&CcS TO SAN  VAIR (85?
- TOTML                              .                    4t-f            3Z-9                    37.0
cum5                                ..          ..                       70.9                     54.8
3L=8                                ..          ..        3              27.1                     26.4
ACCESS TO ZEITA DXSPOSAL
(Z OF POPMA0)
TAL                                 ..          ..           ..           1.1                     *13
ORB"                                ..          ..          ..           72.6                     47.4
L                                   ..          ..          ..            4.6                     33.3
1OPUXATI0  m 1USCXAS              8390.0 /t   3830.0 IL   1810.0 r1      3484.2                   7749.4
P. m W1ONSI30                     4050        2370.0      170.0          4793.1                   z40.4
PoP. mn sITTL msm
TOTam                           1040.0       780.0        490.0         1086.5                  1084.2
DU"*3                            210.0          .         160.0         298.0                    651.2
IBM                            10140.0          ..       1020.0         5993.4                  2594.6
ADMISSIONS MR3 HOSPITAL MM             .           ....                                             27.0
AWURACE ST7Z OIF RUSEROID
TOTAL                               .                       5.2
183*5                               ..          ..         4.2
mZ.UL                                            - ..      5.5
AVERAGE 50. oF PIRSOUSJ3Oa.
TOTL                                ''          ''           -'             --
18.4                                ..          .....
X=AL                                ..          ..           .
A10555 TO ELECT. Cs of UCELLIGS)
TOTAL                               ' '*
sc                                   ...                     .  ..        ..
303L                                ,.          ..           .              ..
MRR



ANNEX I
-29-                                     Page 2 of 6
CHINA, PEOLES REJ. OF - SOCAL IDICATOS DATA SET
cum. PEorLEs a". OF *                 REFENCE GROUPS (UEILD  AVERAGES) la
11S01                 (NM   ZECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECEST         LOW DNO              HmIDDL  INCOME
m/b          197'  L     S!            ASIA & PACIrIC        ASI 4  PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENJOLlMENr RIOS
PRIMARY    TOML                    109.0         110.0       111.0            97.4                     lOZ.0
MALE                        ..          ..         130.0           110.5                    105.9
FEIL                        ..          ..        106.0            83.7                      98.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    21.0         23.0         ".0             35.9                      44.0
MALE                         .    ..               53.0            4.6                       4.7
FINALE                     ..           ..         35.0            26.8                      43.1
VCAIOMnAu CZ Or SECWOT)                              ..          2.2             2.2                      17.5
VUIL-TZACR RATIO
iDgRTy                                ..           ..26.0                     3L5                       3L5
SECONDATY                             ..           ..          7.0            16.7                      23.5
ADULT LITRACY RKAE (s)                43.0 /4        ..          69.0            53.4                     72.9
PASSENGER CARS/TBOOsAND POP              ..          ..         o0Z              09                       10.1
RADIO EECZrVERSfTo0SAND POP              ..        14.2        183.3           112.1                     113-6
TV RECEIVERs/TNOOSAJD POP                .          0.6         27.4            15.7                      5O.21
NEUSPAPER (C-*1. GEERAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATION
PE  THOUSAD POPULATION                 ..          ..           ..            16.2                      53.9
CII    AUAL ATXENDANCE/CAPITA            ..          ..           ..             3.6                       3.4
TOTAL LAWO FORE (7ODUS)           321846.0    3S0555.0    473458.0
FOnLLE (PERCENT)                    38.3         3S.0         37.Z            33.3                      33.5
AGICUlLTURE (PERCN)                    ..          ..         68.9            69.6                      52.2
INDUST  (PERCET)                      ..           ..         18.7            15.8                      17.9
PArCICPATION RAT9 (PERCeNr)
TOtAL                               46.8         45.0         47.0            42.6                      38.7
KALE                                55.9         S.5         57.2            54.7                      50.9
FEMALE                              37.0         35.0         36.0            29.8                      26.6
ZCDOEC DEPENDECY RATIO                 0.9          1.0          0.8             1.0                       1.1
PEUCET OF PRIVATE INCOE
RECEIVED BT
HIGHEST 5: Of HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..         12.5              ..                      Z2.2
HIGHE 20 ZOSF or1USEO                 ..            . DS4.0
LOWEST 20z Ow DOOSEHOLDS              ..           ..          6.8                                       6 ..  8.4
LOESr          USEOLDS                             ..         18.4              ..                       15.5
iam  sw mou
ESTIAMTD ABSOLUTE POVMT LCONE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAFPTA)
R*                                     ..          ..           ..           133.9                     183.6
RMLAL                                                                        111.6                     152.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERT  INCIf
LEVEL (US PER CAITA)
DUAMS                                  ..          ..           ..              ..                     177.9
RUAL                                                                                                   164.6
ESTINAT3D POP. BE1W ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL t:)
URBAN                                                                         43.8                      23.4
RURAL                                                                         51.7                      37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
MOTES
/a  The group averages for each Incator are populatLon wmihtOd erithmecic umen. Corage of countries mug rhe
inicator. depends on availabLUty of data and Lo not unifors.
/b  ULless otherwise noted. -Dca for 1960- refer to any year bte  1959 nd  1961: D-ta for 1970- betv-e  1969 and
1971: and data for 'Most RDeent latiate- between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  Interpolated 1957-62 data;  /d 1964;  /e 1955-1965 overage:  If Percentage of all _arrIr.. wnma of child bearing
age practicing coBtracepcion; /  19-7  /h 1955-8  average:  /i Senior doctor of vatere m_dfcine;
/j Diatributlon of people r     b bonaeisda per capita income, 1979 daa.
A ll poWatlon and vital *atistic  amr Bank setlaates  hich differ fre C1nae off iLal etatiatics.
--  Fosol education only; non-forma enrollmet Is subotantial.
CC Definietom and covrage differ fm  tboee of Cineae official Statistics.
JN. 1984



-30-                                                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
mm.  66~~ lb  -  - dem am .. e~.eej   Jaw m    mumb -  wna 616U     1 U*1. II 111hh30 Sb.1 66 -.1 am AM GM "    1e1-----
".66166mb. 81  1.  Utl-e e~~~~~~~so OONO 3      ".1631  aUekw                        as 6mm  nelin.k.
m em         m13 S   -em, aa 1  b                 .  ito  ) to     am., ema .one OF s".136. damt                      Su  W        1S
~ amer3.~ 31  *~ tem 161  .366   - -    tam    te 16.66 Ut 631e l         MO dun 6mm law msim. .8s1mwalmes o
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r"' no"= an == W -                                                                      ad
-  Ut ".6I-  813.  3m SbRa  Som              163a      b "Se  bulb - Sb ..3I3 jSd3131  -3".MUt. mm m- UlMN -aMM""
-  m  l.- em1e16 "ISO   M3463aW-pl".IS ls.                                                R tlW,     WROOL -0 "ROWL, Int. 
Ut_           _ _ EWE Ut....                                                           ,_        ..       _ _          _ _
_ S _ W _ S _ _ _ _. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~me _ _ _ _uhme_.U_ m__                                       _
21616m.--|----11_.                                                                                                                   Gom".   _ ,m    6 
Iffffil *0 IN  _SR                                                                                           _~  -- ImlSmo  rmmomWWdob
ir mam  gm iIOmlaro 1' -1,11*mm.
Ion.1-a_Sam.  . _36_ 6*63 
X ~~~-_ 66. ,6  .en                 1  .3....................................  eU.u  66613  Utp13w *ee   Ut _el6    SL
_S. _*13. Ut a   dee..                                                        6, _1 tinS mII4 a_a. -.ROOL URYo  3d.  =b1SU Umel.
-  -M  -                                            Sb bUr l-   b - _     _
OML P.WASObOsW NO, Oll SoRd" IIRSS  Wt        81 i3                        mleel ee.ee.. ww   einoelp6 -          mb166                ad 16 1
ool'Orzr_ _  . v  _"_  _ 4OR e- _""  _  _mol  -1 "'o
a-SS,am"    Ut -m~at  "atoot"Lif  9   OO e b -.  ml....6m                         3..    3m    m.I.33 iUlnU
3166. Ut 663 Ut..  ~ ~         ~           ~          ~          ~          ~               t 81   ee*in 6316 dbS-ibeinH I  WO
-0    g_:Ou-dh"   f                  .lg"o IS=,    .... Kw
_,E,l _. _wm , f-fml_ -0  _ s ___B1- a-   M" a"                             or uu    W%%    __"  _ iu_
04 e61614ace1116e.Ut346*  Ut.             m"        aftl8 iee.a.Ut  ..    beb  6lbWw1  ,6 leUiI
__ w _____h                                             ~~~_____._t_____________                                   _mm
_~~~~~~~~~~~~PO   ,                                         '_=      _   _--
of -wu   SRI.  p..letm p.. p .l.c JUti  mmmoo6I.1   -e
66.  16* ,l6     .Soo  31663111. ILJA      .3161..                    .ml.3                           U.p.-.ma oo
ml.    . m Re). U  Mwb32. mmftoa ,- a- 1Ie   eIL                             . Km.." W *...1131'm3t be   U" emi:... -m ini
p .16  e.emlm.  Ut.    ORhpe .2..  "O, -61636 '.3                    .31e.t.U   iI .l6   a16)
__n43  peeemI'     6        . VW  Lb.  Om.                                                    s _u    W _           d- _2  _  e1    R.
%-B.mam 0. ".S.~  b3.1 Ut Ie1Ul  1m a ..eejel U   inaam."M  OM                                                                       afi
a m j-e- -_6.1666 ma in- _a e.e-.e.ee,a. 63e 7s_ _
3... am ei-__ inzv     n ee .leam  aeeel Cm                              P14.      L a. _        "M mli    e    d-l m-   o-nl
geo.bee .1*R )a OR  _.S.Sta 1MI6W.b oa    3. 1 _3. a.".                      3     st _. __ 6 a                      6
U  _..    166 ".16 e.6 Sb i  .em. 6666 __e.e _;t eb                   _        mU  .11 .....  1m..11m"    I   6  e
or   m   166   theso.& n. Oll e _  eeMs.   __- S"                                                    f       Sb  V_186-3 _am __
mm. .6 m  _ _66~".    e.a... W - _.  Sb_"._    .   e.  S _ _b IO_          tooldo .... do".            -msm              6 ama .
.f   .0              .ftlguSb,1  316  3US1-RRt wlo- 66 ".1l                   S    IF Sl-    doporlolmm 3. 1  ...b Wy116 I .331Sv l w
Wpaa66-66.e  A.eU66~ Ut Ut. .66666661mb.                  1.13. eeeeIb8l 31 .4 3? 16t6.3-  a" eee.    - -       66
_6. f c*116 Sb .31 ll33-.1   em Ut A m  . . s-  so                          e63t                            No. S4on.   ad
_. .t .g........ tst-A- *-*1 _ _td   __   =A
.2 C    _._4. 3_6  _. ,,__ ,,,,, _,63.36 .,e _                                       -3   ~66           -1"i
* d. 3 I ..                                    _                                      ge -l - Ou                 -     d_  _     eed _
P.r _t |s ~~~~~~~~~~~~ail   -         -     r       W               "n__w_* *__  __
p-  Iol, Acv%mwz:,..   -                                 ..e!UtI    ,3.6.  I.           =  7 n  n mb6.    mbl. 6, S    .K
1*113.1.44.-1OR    .  (.666666-  64366. -1,
W    M_1__ _.-.I I_______I. - 3.111.1 0- to      ) 31,   _ _   2 13-       <  _m-
_,.P._   -I. 3S4. _  a   so                               _..                     __
c..nt 116  -  -  o  t - A P  1TVd- _6116.11m,-
* r3. "                                  _^. P.S- *_ _ l.S -                                 S-          e             3 W  -l_
- I..~-         C       _ -   _    6.,1f   1e.   U1                            -.M66            , Wa.  .        .1 SWram Rw, " *1_1*
roomns S Owam -"U  a.-v ". 3631..    a.mI"ll. loft  -13116 ..   tom,. w 'd~                                                         ,  an s
[   M.          -o1.1w WW3LAF ._.... am I_ _                                                                6    _  Ue    ..n __6 'd
- I  a C  *II -.-L64 am 4..S. 1m 'U& -  -                                  Ut      16W 2:163.666 .
- b..r  mb3.4 bu66631. em. .11 Ut 4                       66.-w  oS. 6r -_               16.6f              66 efem_
orp                       -11 Ut  _       -. - _   _n-. 4                                                           - 3m Sb  mm
-T                 --f- t.         e oll-  U-   . _O of                    1          _ -   4e     . 1 _            3 _ _     - _ 
*1 '166.                                                                                                                66__  hUe 36*". 6o  D  6_ _
nU!         I            .63314   a. - _-.36  81 3.3.                      66b 66*1n  6_6_.*_
*ru*.-s.  _   j e   -  * t_*f Pa_|-t                       pa-s-               %nmM-_ftu -M---s -
-  1666611.61 n__-_*- .3661 , r- _                                        1 dams-
WP3-m. OIL -                                                               A       _ *- a- me                     6611.. M . loott1r 11
.166    33."333 p.i  3-f.6.3. a 33              -ft  ".  gem.                               U-t.661i--    NO. .l-.66. e33.  in'4
1--d 'e qp.) .04.2, -          d        -SM- C..S3                                    S..     l. _*  _. . *l_. -. -                _
naw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  3463 tulte*  am de.
-Er-."  -       <2.4swlod    BWWf  . g- OF-O   _- W                 .          W_._            -d AMb b P_-, P  __ t~  *                 Ik son
1-od___s.o  -..................3.-". .4 . ml.. IRS:3 1in  66 pe.66....1........ .___.r*..
--         _ ar}_   _ d Or   _f                      _o                                oCg t_w  1_ -I   " toot ,w-1 o   t .1         _ _9 op-
_6_4  t 66u_ _p ptso v1. _t. 3m. Noo1 d-l a. 1q1-       t L ..e              wo =e   -  _ n              13 bI  66    no'3. 1.f.*S163 ".
-rl2`e __              * .     e..L    -U&  ..1 goodY 3.                             17. 366 W--t   _ t at _lI.t  _          fL.6    3466. _A_ 3
_t. _u_   S.._.  P_bs_ _               n.. et_ 36614). 1_ _.6  _2 ".1                           _S -n
4...                                    _.                                         I _6yn o.        - K. _     .d_ R I  *_. or *.jAU _   - b_.11--.s 6 _    *  1
-6'e -3  "d  m-- .4 -- *                        . in cnS3-.                 _,                         Im-p  1,66        .3        .. _.e 
_-- Wse_____s_  U -  41"Lb.-  df __.L.    _ .4.S _ 10   _ f    -
67. .w161 _   1        3. I l"." low       6     _ 1                          . d1 _l- -_                       l _ 6  1 .
, 11366..edu _u t 3.."..3. * t 3    1. 46613166-166.    .lr              2.                                                                                                    _ t
*_16 6611 66*6.46  1 i.-_ -  _ *1.eb._ ".6. 3._ _..3                        !im '.-_         tf  - b.3.  m fe_ _t I) -t 6) 1. -   66
.1         _f OF m-  Wr .W_ >rr  p"Mm _- _e _9 _. 8-O ao  _.__cr _9-  r
PM- WfUteM      *I.% 10 _-  &A..   b. .316.3        .  a                            r 161.
*I d3     3 . *6-_3,  313.. al.._ am _o
__ __     l_         d_     Ps __                              -_   3.36 (6_66 3 6 2.3 ) ___  6661_   6, 11... _
r  - P."  _ _ *-_* rw rs_. -_ P-P"  np M     tt                              ,..  S. |         _ =    ol   o_-aft
P    14 lm...j.-4 map&"   186 1 -48 1 P.6 3.161             111            __%__ __ __ ___                       e_ _a _F_ -____l
-   al c4 . n 4..-  r  f.31-; f1t _6.. __ 663*6  m .  r*_ _c  3* Z                                -          M      . Ut _6. _  03
4l616 tr.  _1 _i3P6 ..l61Sb 6*   ma_wo   _:.16 131_   .l1 _                 b. _raS_l _3                __Wn_
.13mm                                                                        .n.316Pm .2 1.661 p66133. in 4.3 ".16  wmt .83661.61
-..  331.. lft16 3- eslm    : 614668.16son.313    16...4
~~~~~~~~~~V_.pl  r_ 1.-  -_    ]_ _Q t_ _*             @        _t w  S-3s -d _ _ _t
_.     -m= _ .4  16. r       _   c.m 1O1,3 _ 63p66 88 1 2z                                                                    04tm
- ~ ~   ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ sX~t--  _E _" f__ {} _-  m                                                      _ 
urrS  _-__ _r. .r  bz.  wl_ _t. - bof r,U    -bU o-   _f S _@E
-    --Ir X-_ _        l-  -     -1d *-1 a_   t . * - s_*
_16ft F _             _  ..     ". .It a. 1-             t 3 _                                                6
-.                                                                      .7M,.14.61..
__*1 r.1 4.3161.6 __2 _.6. 3466.-   _U2.8  3          *341. _..h  I.al .4r Sb                     r3 66t366  .4.1e              b  1.
gb-tl ~~~~~~tl- P.P.1-1-    1-3M4113- P1661 I ..p..116 -T                        . 1 P.1)  b.
_W_ - '* 113tD _46.r 3410 164 3662 433                                       i n'.
w            by a-.    _              r63  r C.  _   .1Pa.3..1  I
68  --_6 *364 _ 631 (_ . *-   .      - e. _U. ao  ..  -
-166. __  1inadd  .r31 hIS ..|.61  .t._.*_ t_.U,*
35   r..1  16366 .1663.61 1.336 ".1  3611113   .53
Sb31  Sb _1.61 6631161.131r * ..4 * ra_3331161 _        3 _    *
Sb_ 4.73. sf..6P   6 tm!3  311  m
66.._  *_   16,.3   13.33.6116)-363.63                      133



-31 -ANNX T
Pg=e 4of 6
Populatlon        1.00  million (mid-1982)
CMP per Capita:  US$310  (1982)
C11tNA - EDONPIC INDICATORS
Animal Crowth t7) at Constant Price
Indicator                                     1057-70   1970-77   1978        1979      1980      1941       19R2       19R3      28R4
(estivate)
Production
Cross output
Agriculture                                 2.2       1.4        9.0      8.6        3,9       6.6       11.n       9*5
Light Industry                              R.3       7.8       10.R      9.6       IR4      14.1        5.7       R.7
Reavy industry                             11.6       9.3       15.6      7.7        1.4      -4.7        e9       12.4
Net Material Product (NNW)                    5.2       46.       12.6      7.0        6.1       4.8        7.4       Q.1
1957      1Q70       1977      1978       1979      1980       1981      19R2       1483
Prices
Retail price iudes (1970-100)   92.2       100.0     102.7      103.3     105.4      111.7     114.6      116.6     11A.1/h
NMP deflator        (1970-100)   90.7      100.0      e9.1      1no.5     104.5      1O,.4     110.5      10.u    t111.87T
Exchante rate       CY/Uss)       2.46       2.46       1.R6      1.63       1.55      1.50      1.71       1.R9       .9i.T7
Amount                                                             Average Annual Croeth
1982                  Shares of GDP (C)                          (2) at CAnstant Vrices
Natienal Accounts           (S bin)      1957     1970      i982     1985    190       1Q57-7n   1970-79   197q-82   1982-9n
GD?                          264.5       100.0   ino.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          5.8        S,R       5.1        6.5
Agriculture                 97.5          ..    32.5      36.0     34.0     29.4         1.6       3.2        5.1       3.2
Industry                   107.0          ,,    43.5     40.4      63.0     45.7        12.1       R.9        7.4       8.2
Other                       60.0          ,,    24.0      22.7     23.0     74.9         3.5       4.3        0.3       7.R
Consumption                  184.4        76.4    68.4      69.7     7n.0     71.0         2.7        5.4       5.R       6.8
Investment                    76.0        23.2    32.5      28.7     30.1     29.8         9.8        6.R       fi.9      7.0
Exports ClIPS                 23.5         3.7/b   6.0       R.9      Q.0       9.6        1.6th     8.0/h    19.0         7 
IMports 'NFS                  19.4         3.571;  6.R       7.3      q.3      10.4        2.371T    9. 4Tni    7.7       11.1
Nationsl savings              80.1        23.6tc  31.9      30.3     1n0.      29.0         ..
As ! OF CDP
Public Finance                                                       1957            1979            1981           1498
Current revenues (excluditR foreign horrowuing)                    28.7            34.5           31.9            29.t
Current expenditures                                               16.1            22.R           23.3            21.1
Surplus (+) or deffict C-)                                        +12.6          +11.7            +4.6            *7.R
Capital expenditures                                               11.9            16i.            9.9             9.4
Poreign borrowing /d                                                0.7             n.9            1.6             0.7
Other Indicators                                                   1957-70         1979-82         19R2-90
- S-
CDP growth rate (2)                                                 5.8             5.1            6.5
CDP per capita grovth rate (2)                                      3.,             3.9             5.3
Energy consumtion growth rate (2)                                   8S.             1.9
ICOR                                                                5.4
Marginal savings rate                                               0.42
Import elastIcity                                                   1.6             1.5
/a  NYP basis.
71; Coods only.
7T GDS.
Td  Cross.



32 -                                                PEP 5  f 6
Yapulatioa    I  1,00   uAtion (uet-1982)
Gl? per Capita: UI31O (1982)
cum  - ZEMAL TR1
(Cilliou US$ at               Aual arowth rates (2) (at constant 1980 prices)
current prices)                    ctual                                Prolecte
Indicator                             1983        1980        1981       1982        98        1984        1985         1986
External Trade
Mrcbandlee exporta                22.223         17          16          6          10        14           4             4
hergy                            4466          ..               ..          .. .
Other primry                     4,947         ..          ..         ..         ..
hinafactures                    12,557         ..          ..         ..         ..
Other                             - 253                    ..                    ..
Pbrchandie inports                18,970         17         -9          10         29         20          10            10
Food                             2,735         ..          ..         ..          ..        ..
Energy                              99                     ..               ..         ..         ..           ..
lhchlnry and equipmet            3,537                     ..         ..         ..          ..                ..
Otber                           12,599                               ..                ..           ..
Prices
Export price index (2980-100)         ..        100         103         99         89         92          96           100
Import price index (1980.100)                   100         105         91         79         82          86            90
Mann of trade inex (19d0-100)         ..        100          98        108        113        112         111           111
compodltioc of marcbandias trade (Z)                   Averae annal increase C()
(at current prices )                                                  st contant prics)
1980     1981     1982     1983      1985     1990     1957-70  1970-79  1979-2  19826   18S90
xpworts                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0       100      100         1.6      8.0     12.9      9.3       4.0
Energy                25.1      22.9     23.8     20.1        11        0         ..        ..
Other primary         28.4      24.1     22.8     22.3        24       24         ..        ..
Nhnnfactures          46.5      47.8     50.5     56.5        60       71         ..        ..
Other                  0.0       5.2      2.9      1.1         5        5         ..        ..
IMports                100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0        lOo       100        2.3       9.4      5.4     19.4      10.0
Food                     ..     19.6     22.5     14.4        16       17         ..        ..
Enrgy                  0.0       0.0      0.0      0.5         0        8         ..        ..
Machinery and
equipment           27.5      24.2     19.1     18.7        24       25         ..        ..
Other                   5. 6.2           58.5     66.4        60       50         ..        ..
Share of trade with          Share of trade with       Share of trade witb countrie  witb
Industrial countries (K)     developlng coumtries (Z)    centrally planed economies (1) /a
1975    1981    1983        1978    1981    1983              1978      1981       19893_
Direction of Trade lb
Exports                       37.3    45.9    42.1         51.6    50.2    53.1             11.1       3.9       4.7
Imports                      73.3    76.1    68.1          17.5    18.7    24.2              9.2       4.S       6.4
/a  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe. Cuba. North Korea and Mongolia.
/b Based on DIM: "Cbina - Recent Economic Developments." October 1984. p. 90b.



-33-                                         AMMIN
p      Of 6
Populatlon       1,008 uillon (mid-1982)
G8P per Cspita: USS310 (1992)
CHIA- RALANCKL OF rINrsEM, EXTERNIAL CAPITAL AND DEBr
fLllion US$ at current prlces)
Actual                                  Projected
Indicator                                           1979      1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1983       1990
Balance of Paynents
Exports of goods and services                   15,351    20,901    25,157    25,989    26,389    30,610    33,100    53,300
Of vht h:  Herchandise f.o.b.                13.u58    18,492    22.027    22,476    22,223    26,160    28,400    45,700
Irports of goods and services                  18.204    24.752    24.380    20,793    22,448    28,280    32,500    62,600
Of which:   erchandise f.o.b.                16,212    22.049    21.047    17,830    18.970    23.620    27,300    52,600
Net transfers                                      596       500       6B0        412       511        600       600        800
C4rrent account balance                        -2,257    -3,351      1,457      5.608     4.442      2,930     1,200    -8,SOO
Foreign direct investment (net)                     -         57       265        359       478        670       750      1,500
MLT Loans (net)                                   800      1.130       416        426       899      1,000     1,200     4,000
Official                                        350        446       479        557       789
Private                                         450        684       -63      -131        110
Other capltal                                   2.054      2,555        365      -102    -2,481    -2,000    -1,500       1.0D0
Cbange ln net reserves C"-' - increase)          -597       -391    -2.503    -6.291    -3.338    -2,600    -1.600       2,000
International reserves                          7,274      7,665    10.168    16,459    19.797    22.400    24,000
of which:  gold                               5.120      5.120     5.120      5,120     5,120
Reserves as months imports                        4.8        3.7       5.0        9.4      10.6        9.5       7.4
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                                 ..        ..
Concessional toans                                  .
DAC
OPEC
IDA                                                         ..
Other                                             ..        ..
Sonconcessional Loans                               ..        .
OfficLal export credits                          ..         ..
IBRD
Other eultilateral                                ..        ..
Private
External debt
Debt ontstanding & disbursed                     ..      5.433     5.785     6.058      6,397
Official
private
Undisbursed debt                                  ..        ..
Debt service
Total service payments                            ..        ..
Interest
Payments as 2 exports CUFS                        ..       5.8       8.6/a    10.91a      5.5a
Average interest rate on new loans (2)              ..        ..
Average maturity of new loans (years)               ..         .
/a Including some early repayment of principal.



34 -                             ANNEX I1
STATUS 0 UANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THr PEOPLE'S RIPURLIC OP CHINA
A. STATE.MENT 0 RANC LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 19R4)
Loan or                                                     UsS million
Credit                                                Amount  flear  cancellation)
Number   Year   Rorrower              Purpose         Bank    InA    rndisbur.ed
2021/    1981   People's Republic   Univ. nev.        1nn0.    10.0n      R4.9
1167            of China
1261     1482   People's Republic   Agric. Dev.          -     fi0.0      33.9
of China
2207     19R2   People's Republic   Port.              69.0      -        65.1
of China
1297     1932   People's Republic   Ag. Ed. and          -     75.4       60.2
of China             Research
2226/    1982   People's Republic   Industrial         40.6    30.n       64.3
1313            of China              Credit
2231     19R3   People's Republic   naqing            162.4      -       155.4
of China             Petroleum
2252     1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan         1nn.3      -       100.0
of China             Petroleum
2261/    1983   People's Republic   Weilongliang    35.3    45.0          51.0
1347            of China             Land Recld-
mation
1411     19R3   People's Republic   Polytechnic/TV    -        R5.0      79.5
of China             ITnivermity
1412     19R3   People's Republic   Technical            -     1n0n       8.9
of China             Cooperation
1417     1936   People's Republic   Rubber              -    10n.0       39.3
of China             Development
23R2     1934   People's Republic   Lubuge Hydra-  145.4         -       142.7
of China             electric
2394     19R4   People's Republic   Railway I         220.0      -      219.5
of China
1462     1QR4   People's Republic   Rural Credit         -     50.0       47.2
of China
1472     19R4   People's Republic   Rural Health &    -        R5.0       73.3
of China             Ned. Educ.
2426     19R4/a People's Republic   Karamay           100.3      -       1n0.3
of China             Petroleum
2434/    1084/b People's Republic   Industrial        10s.n    7n.0      170.R
1491            of China             Credit II
2444/    1984/c People's Republic   Second Agri-    45.3    21.5         63R.R
1500            of China             cultural Educ.
1516     1985/d People's Republic   Second Agri-         -     25.n      25.n
of China             cultural Researcl
Total                              1,124.1   758.9   1,625.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA            1,124.1   758.9
Total undishursed                         1,0R7.R   537.3
R.  STATEMENT nF IFC INVESTMFNTS
tas of September 30, lR64)
None
/a  Recame effective on October 9, 1Q34
7   Became effective on October q, 1934
7W  Became effective on October 17, 1984
7d  Signed on December 3, 1934; not yet effective.
Note:  The status of the prolects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/InA financial proiects in execution, which is tup-
dated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive nirectors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:         10 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:         MOE
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:            April 1983
(d) Main Bank identification/
preparation mission:                     September 1983
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                 March 1984
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:        January 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             June 1985
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
None
Sectian III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) award fellowships in accordance with agreed selection procedures and
guidelines (para. 68);
(b) maintain the monitoring and evaluation units until such date as may
be agreed with the Association (para. 74);
(c) carry out studies in accordance with agreed terms of reference and
schedules and submit to the Association the findings when they are
available (para. 75);
(d)  process national programs and subprojects according to agreed
procedures, criteria and guidelines (para. 76);
(e) maintain the Central Coordinating Committee, the Chinese Review
Commission and the International Advisory Panel, until such time as
the Government and the Association determine (para. 77);
(f) hold annual and in-depth, mid-term joint progress reviews with the
Association (para. 79); and
(g) submit to the Association annual audit reports and a project
completion report (para. 87).



U     S    S      R                                       ,                              1               1
t                                             ~~~~~~~.- :                             ;< Aj; ->                                                                    -
A Fl A)                                                                                 M   OT'A   N    GJ
j-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
,,  II -IS  -as ODa Wawe flu'r                                                  A     >      -
TlI  .Od Banh *ssa  shabS
fo lime                     --mmmc    = N  VL-                                                                                                   s
i~~~~~alw                           -_r  ,__, -NV                                                )Je>
A f lCG   N  h    Fvlance
Cqra.nThedIOlmeIfMfb*OMi#P
Oilha map has nem prev*w. by 
Th ss ae W   a 's   s g  e d umh r  e *'                                                         -f                              . nS
Andih  mwnwe  omf NW                                                                                -                _l   
I-d s And  &.km                                                                                                f)l Me}
5eal nd of The -w 7 a   NV
SW"Ron l Fslmocaan CwN,wetmo
c-pw~~ ~~ rh. d                                                                             (r   'k 
aPod Ounhf Dh ib     m NV Vgm af.
kgbmak    Fd_re CC/RI-/ -  -  R0  '-_
of any &-axny or any
aId0s,men_ or accep-a' e Of
such bOmadana                                          .*
otrsmhvroraliv -.                                                                     ~.        -    o.                       X ,
~~~~ \                   -- -           - __________
rLH I N  A                            r                                                    .s  
SECOND UNIVERSITY                                                                      . ''  \yJ 
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads                                                                       /                        1      -
Railways
Double Track
Single Track
+       Airports
4,      Major Ports
*       Capital
      Major Towns                                                              3S!
Provincial Boundaries
International Boiundaries
.371'   LAO  PEOPLE'Sc..
f,r-W-4        ILDEMOCRATIC  ?
RPUBLIC !"
__THA     _ __L_A_N __,\7__
I  .                             .                                          ..  .            ,       i,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/--



IBRD 18550
5 E-' -  -  I  
*  L I A   -:
IAI'i~~~d
___Er H;EIfl 4,=                 REPUBLIC             JAPAN
o E b >   /          -S OF    KO REA
K9~~~~        ~         ~~ d    Or    q -            ,
,,ot, f    _    _tt_>           ~~~~~~~~~~REPU.BLIC
b:~~~~~~ :,'  ',                                                                                     I
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E'w                                                                                                  '
_rlc/  ,,  Ewd -
-,_   /r.Le'      F        a j^,m mc   mc MO      o am Sao   PHILIPPINIES
~  .tt~ 0  MO  200  mc  Mc
SEPTEMBER 1984






