Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14530-CHA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1551-CHA)
MAY 19, 1995
Poverty, Population, and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name - Renminbi
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
At Appraisal $ 1 = Y 2.80
At Completion $ 1 = Y 7.72
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAPRC  -  Audit Administration of the People's Republic of China
CNTIC  -  China National Technical Import Corporation
CRC    -  Chinese Review Commission
FILO    - Foreign Investment and Loan Office
IAP     - International Advisory Panel
MOE    - Ministry of Education
MOF    - Ministry of Finance
NAS    -  National Academy of Sciences
SEdC    -  State Education Committee
SOE     -  Statement of Expenditure
SPC     -  State Planning Commission
UDPI   - First University Development Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 19, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on China
Second University Development Project (Credit 1551-CHA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on China - Second University
Development Project (Credit 155 1-CHA) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office. Part II was contributed by the Borrower. The report gives a satisfactory account of
project implementation constraints and results.
The project supported the first phase of the Government's 1 0-year program to
increase the output of high-level technical and managerial manpower through adjustments in
enrollment, quality and efficiency related to engineering and economics and finance. To
achieve this goal, the project included a program of action on policy and institutional changes
supported by equipment, training and technical assistance for 39 of the country's universities.
Overall the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. All components
were substantially implemented and achieved. However, the sectoral actions were less
satisfactorily implemented because preparation of the policy content proved to have been
inadequate and the design of the operation did not provide for explicit linkages between policy
objectives, project actions and monitorable indicators. Nevertheless, institutional development
in universities supported by the project is rated as substantial and sustainability as likely.
An audit is planned as part of a cluster of related projects.
Robert Picciotto
by Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1551-CHA)
CONTENTS
Preface    .............................................   i
Evaluation Summary  ...................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity.                                                            1
2. Project Background.                                                          1
3. Project Objectives and Description.                                          3
4. Project Design and Organization.                                             4
5. Project Implementation.                                                      5
6. Project Results.                                                             7
7. Project Sustainability.                                                      9
8. IDA Performance.                                                             9
9.  Borrower Performance  ............................... 10
10.  Consulting Services of the IAP and CRC  .................... 11
11.  Project Documentation and Data  ......................... 11
12.  Lessons Learned ................................... 12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Comments on the Analysis in Part I ....................... 14
B.  Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III  ...       ...... 16
C.  Evaluation of IDA's Performance  ........................ 16
D.  Evaluation of Borrower's Performance  ..................... 17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank/IDA Loans and/or Credits  ........              ............ 18
2.  Project Timetables ................................. 20
3.  Credit Disbursement  ................................ 20
4.  Implementation Indicators  ............................. 21
5. Project Cost    ..22
6. Project Financing    ..22
7.  Status of Covenants for the Second University Development Project .... 23
8. Staff Input   ..25
9. IDA Missions   ..25
MAP   IBRD 26959



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CBINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1551-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second University
Development Project for which Credit 1551-CHA in the amount of SDR 148 million or
$145.0 million was approved on February 26, 1985 and closed on December 31, 1992
after it had been extended for two additional years. The extensions were requested by the
Chinese Govemment in order to further strengthen the economics and finance curriculum
development component of the project and procure additional spare parts for project
supported equipment. The last disbursement was made on February 10, 1993 and the total
disbursements were 100 percent of the credit amount.
The PCR was prepared by EA2HR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts
I and Im) except for Part II which was prepared by the Borrower, represented by the State
Education Commission.
Initial work on the PCR started in mid 1992 by obtaining qualitative and
quantitative information from the Borrower during a supervision mission for the Key
Studies Development Project. The PCR preparation is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, Credit Document, IDA supervision reports, the Borrower's progress and
audit reports, the International Advisory Panel (IAP) and the Chinese Review Commission
(CRC) evaluation reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, and internal
Bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CIINA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1551-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.          At the time of appraisal, and based on its sector work and dialogue with the
Chinese Govemment, the Association had adopted an education lending strategy which
consisted of three lines of action: (a) develop technical and vocational education to
increase the supply of technicians and skilled workers; (b) strengthen the education of
teachers and administrators and improve the quality of teaching materials and management
in basic education; and (c) expand higher education and improve its quality and
management to provide more high-level manpower.
2.          The Government placed a priority within the education sector upon the rapid
expansion and improvement of higher education to help reduce the then serious manpower
constraints on the country's economic development. It was felt that the imbalance between
manpower supply and requirements was particularly acute in the engineering and
economics/finance sector which were essential for technological and managerial
improvement of the economy, as well as in university post graduate programs. The project
therefore included support for expanding enrollment, improving teaching and research
programs including curricula reform and teacher training, and improving management.
Project Objectives and Scope
3.          As the first phase of a ten year program (1985-94) to build up high-level
technical and managerial manpower required for national development, the project sought
to support adjustments in enrollment, quality, and efficiency related to engineering,
economics and finance education. To achieve this goal, the project would implement a
program of action on policy and institutional changes which addressed three basic issues
of the subsector: low level and imbalanced structure of enrollment, inadequate quality, and
inefficient planning and management.
4.          To increase enrollment and redress structural imbalance the project sought
to expand engineering, economics and finance, and graduate education programs at
differential growth rates to adjust the imbalance of the overall university enrollment
structure in response to development needs. While increasing enrollments was a project



- 1v -
target, decreasing the percentages of engineering students as a percent of total enrollment
from 35 percent in 1983 to 30 percent in 1990, and increasing economics and finance
enrollments from 6 percent to 7 percent over the same period were also project goals. To
improve quality the project sought to broaden undergraduate curricula in engineering,
economics and finance by reducing the number of specialties, increasing the proportion of
general and basic courses, and introducing new courses to produce graduates who could
meet the demands emerging from the modernization program. In addition, the project
aimed at revitalizing the teaching force in engineering and economics and finance.
Planning and management capabilities were to be increased by introducing new procedures
to improve planning and maintenance of facilities; increasing the student/staff ratio,
utilization rates of classrooms, laboratories and libraries, and the proportion of commuting
students; and establishing a mechanism to monitor and evaluate education development
projects by creating a central unit within the Ministry of Education (MOE) and local units
in individual universities (see Table 4). The project also planned to include studies to
introduce new policies on quality and management. The project sought to support reforms
by investments in individual subprojects. Thus the project was conceived of and designed
as a sector investment although actual investments were only made to individual institutions
of higher education, or "subprojects."
Inplementation Experience
5.          By the end of the seven-year project implementation period (1986-92) these
fundamental goals of the project have been partially achieved. National enrollments in
engineering and economics and finance have increased beyond project goals as can be seen
in the project indicators (see Table 4 for project target indicators as they appear in the
SAR). The goal however, of reducing the share of engineering enrollment in total
enrollment from 35 percent to 31 percent was not achieved, instead enrollments increased
to 36 percent of the total enrollment. The share of total enrollment for economics and
finance surpassed its target increase of 7 percent to 11 percent.
6.          The impact of the subprojects on sector or program goals cannot, however,
be assumed beyond the development of the economics and finance curriculum (see para.
4.3) This inability to assess the impact of subprojects on the program goals is due in part,
to lack of SAR indicators for individual subprojects. The SAR provides sectoral targets
only. This lack of SAR subproject indicators was complicated by the apparent lack of full
understanding by the borrower of the concept and design of a sector project, an
observation borne out in early International Development Association (IDA) mission
reports during project preparation. From the beginning of project design the borrower
viewed the loan as a project loan and as a result, focused on implementation and
supervision of project activities at the subproject or university level, and not national level
sector goals. This observation is supported by the succession of IDA supervision mission
reports which also focused on progress in implementing the subproject or university
activities to the virtual exclusion of comment on sector targets. The State Education
Commission (SEdC), in its final reporting on the project provided data only on the 39
subproject institutions and not the full sector.



v
7.          Once the focus of supervision shifted away from sector goals, IDA's
missions consistently reported smooth implementation of the project within subproject
institutions and achievement of subproject or institutional goals. SEdC, responsible for
monitoring and supervising the implementation of all aspects of the Project, has been seen
to provide good leadership from inception to project completion. To addition, an
International Advisory Panel (IAP) and Chinese Review Commission (CRC) were created
to provide advice and assistance to SEdC on overall project implementation. The LAP and
CRC through their joint policy meetings and site visits ultimately provided substantial
supervisory assistance to IDA. Project supervision reports indicate that IDA judged the
role of the IAP and CRC to be extremely valuable in the overall supervision of the project.
8.          The major portion of the IDA credit was used for equipment procurement.
Initial concern was expressed by the IAP over the universities' desire to purchase research
equipment that was too sophisticated without proper consideration of adequate and
appropriate maintenance.  However, by detailed review  of procurement technical
specifications and their modification, IDA and the IAP eventually agreed that by and large
the correct match between teaching and research need and level of instrument complexity
was achieved. The IAP, however, repeatedly expressed concern over the need of the
project universities to purchase maintenance agreements for the equipment. Many finally
did purchase some agreements with the additional IDA credit funds made available through
the shifts in the SDR/dollar exchange rates. Despite the effort of the universities to
purchase maintenance agreements the IAP continued to be concemed that universities
would not be able to contract for maintenance agreements after the life of the project due
to lack of necessary funding.
9.          The civil works were implemented satisfactorily during the early years of
the project and covered construction of new buildings and renovation of physical facilities
and fumiture.
10.         The implementation of the technical assistance for the most part went
smoothly. The only major problem associated with implementation of the project resulted
after the events of June 1989 when the dispatch of foreign consultants and specialists to
China was disrupted for a period of some six to nine months. However, the number of
fellows sent abroad at the end of the project period was more than double the original
target and more than 95 percent of project specialists invited by the Chinese universities,
over 340 (see para. 5.12) in number, spent up to a month lecturing, consulting, and
advising in the fields of engineering and economics and finance.
11.        In 1987 the project organized an Economics and Finance Curriculum
Development Seminar in Shanghai which included participation by international and
Chinese experts in the economics and finance area. This seminar recommended the
development and introduction of a new undergraduate minimum core curriculum in the
area of economics and finance. This core curriculum was, in fact, introduced to some 250
institutions of higher education in March 1990 when SEdC recommended it for use in
Chinese colleges and universities.  IDA missions recognized the development and
introduction of the new curriculum as the major accomplishment of the project.



- vi -
12.         Because of shifts in the SDR/dollar exchange rate late in the project, and the
consequent availability of increased US dollar resources which could be used to make
purchases of equipment and instrumentation within the originally planned scope of the
project, the project was extended for an additional two years. The extension allowed the
borrower to complete procurement and provide for increased support in the area of
economics and finance in order to assist the Chinese in maintaining the momentum of the
implementation of the core curriculum. The project was completed by December 31,
1992.
Results and Sustainability
13.         The planning for the project took place in the early 1980's and was
envisioned as the first phase of a 10-year program to provide China with high-level
technical and managerial manpower. The project has helped achieve these goals. The
major project objectives to increase high-level technical and managerial manpower through
adjustments in enrollment and quality related to engineering and economics and finance
have been fulfilled although the specific impact of the project on the increases is difficult
to assess. Implementation indicators show that undergraduate enrollment grew significantly
during the project period. The national engineering enrollments were 104 percent of the
sector targets and economics and finance were 130 percent. The project support for the
creation of a new economics and finance curriculum as well as the introduction of the new
and broadened engineering courses was a primary element in increasing the quality of both
undergraduate and graduate teaching in subproject universities. In addition, staff
development has been advanced significantly in project supported institutions through a
series of seminars on university management as well as teacher training programs,
programs which sent faculty abroad and the invitation of international consultants.
Efficiencies achieved as a result of the project are mixed. Student-teacher ratio indicators
show that targets were not achieved during the life of the project although they do show
slight improvement over base line indicators.  On the other hand, the percent of
experiments performed in engineering surpassed the targets indicating an increased
utilization of equipment in the laboratories (see Table 4).
14.         Sustainability of project benefits can be examined in terms of project design,
enrollment, and curricula and faculty development. The sectoral approach to project
design and the resulting success in development and dissemination of the economics and
finance curriculum to more than 250 universities and colleges beyond those covered by the
project is testimony to the continuing impact of this project. The enrollment increases that
were achieved during the life of the project will continue to provide trained manpower in
the two targeted sectors for the next 30 years. Likewise, the faculty training programs
which included over 1,500 teachers in science and engineering as well as 1,800 introduced
to the new economics and finance curriculum are also excellent indicators of substantial
future impact on teaching in these disciplines.
15.         The greatest short-term  impact of the project was on curriculum
development, especially in the areas of economics and finance.  The long-term
sustainability of these efforts could be a problem, however, unless there is continued



- vii -
training, institutionalization of a syllabi compilation mechanism, support for textbook-
writing, and organization of end-user seminars to identity specific problems in the
economics and finance curriculum.
16.         The human resource area of faculty development will have greatest long-
term impact. Taking into consideration the continuing problem of the slow return of
Chinese students and faculty sent abroad for advanced degrees, the best way to sustain
faculty development is for Chinese universities to work out effective ways of upgrading
and promoting sufficient numbers of younger faculty.
Lessons Learned
17.         The main lessons learned from the project experiences are:
(a)   Reform of the Chinese higher education sector is most possible within a
supportive policy environment in which all participants, both within and
outside the education sector, are in fundamental agreement on the scope,
pace and direction of reform.  The project's economics/finance core
curriculum work was only possible because a political consensus existed in
China in 1985/86 at the start of the project which supported the view that
only by reforming the economic system could China obtain sustained
growth. The Chinese government recognized that to reform the economy
it must change the way it trained its economists and administrators. This
consensus existed in all sectors of the economy and throughout the
government and facilitated the rapid development of the curriculum.
(b)   Implementation of a project designed as a sector loan is possible only if
there is an understanding on the part of both the borrower and IDA as to
how a sector project is designed, developed, and implemented. In this case,
the borrower, from the beginning, viewed this loan as a project loan and as
a result, implemented and assessed the project on this basis. Likewise, IDA
did an inadequate job of working with the borrower to fully explain the
differences between and reasons for sector and project loans.  This
confusion from the very beginning resulted in a credit-supported activity
which was described as a sector loan with sector goals but was implemented
as a project loan with subproject goals. Accordingly, impact of the project
on the overall sector goals (i.e., enrollment, quality and management) is
difficult to assess because they were not monitored by either the borrower
of IDA during project implementation.
(c)   The sector approach to project development was not totally a loss but was
successful only when the project's impact on the economics and finance
curriculum  is taken into account.  The new curriculum  affects 250
institutions, well beyond the nine economics and finance institutions actually
supported in the project. The lesson to be drawn from this experience is
that sector designed projects can only be successful if the borrower fully



- viii -
understands, designs and implements a sector activity from the start. This
includes providing project targets that can be used to realistically calibrate
success in implementing policy action plan goals. Confusion between IDA
and the borrower on the fundamental goals (and thereby the targets) of a
project makes the project difficult to assess.
(d)   The program approach to project design was a useful method to analyze and
assess national issues and propose national solutions.  In light of the
development of a national economics and finance curriculum which
continues to be developed and taught well after the project completion, the
program approach has some merit. However, IDA and the borrower must
both agree on how a program approach can be used to support sustained
policy development over a period of time and through small projects. This
has not been the case in IDA's the Bank's continuing work in higher
education in China.
(e)   International technical assistance in education projects can provide vital and
important educational inputs into a reform process which is underway and
is fully supported by the educational policy structure. Major changes in
economics and finance curriculum were possible for these reasons.
International impact on the engineering curriculum was not as evident,
primarily because it was felt by Chinese university administrators and
academics that fundamental change in this sector was not critically
necessary. The role of the IAP and CRC in preparing, implementing and
evaluating education projects in China has been important. Both IDA and
the Chinese government have recognized their importance.
(f)   Continuing efforts should be made to include maintenance contracts with the
purchase of sophisticated equipment. Capacity to operate and maintain these
major investments should be a main concern.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CIUNA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1551-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project name    : Second University Development Project
Credit No.      : 1551-CHIA
Country         : China
Sector         : Education
Subsector       : Higher Education
2.    Project Background
2.1          Sector Development Objectives. At the time of appraisal, and based on
its sector work and its dialogue with the Chinese Government, the Association had adopted
an education lending strategy which consisted of three lines of action: (a) develop
technical and vocational education to increase the supply of technicians and skilled
workers; (b) strengthen the education of teachers and administrators and improve the
quality of teaching materials and management in basic education; and (c) expand higher
education and improve its quality and management to provide more high-level manpower.
2.2         The Government placed a priority within the education sector upon the rapid
expansion and improvement of higher education to help reduce the then serious manpower
constraints on the country's economic development. There were two dimensions to the
manpower constraint: the low level of overall university enrollment and the imbalance of
enrollment structure. Between 1981 and 1983, the government reported that the overall
supply of university graduates would meet only about half of the requirements in the
national job assignment process. While the development of the economy calls for the
expansion of the university sector as a whole, the structure of enrollment needed
adjustment to meet the changing pattern of manpower requirement. The imbalance
between manpower supply and requirements was particularly acute in engineering and
economics/finance, essential for technological and managerial improvement of the
economy, as well as in university post graduate programs. In 1983, engineering and
economics/finance output would meet only 38 percent and 16 percent of the projected
needs respectively, the lowest among the major disciplines. As a result of the serious
manpower shortages in those two fields, central agencies in charge of priority industries,



- 2 -
and banking and financing services had to function at suboptimal levels with unqualified
personnel. Likewise, the university system was further constrained by the limited size of
its postgraduate program. Enrollment ratios of 20:1 of undergraduates to postgraduates
were not unusual rather than ratios of 5:1 to 10: 1 in advanced countries.
2.3         Policy Context.  To address problems of economic inefficiency and
structural imbalance, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in 1979
which focussed primarily on invigorating China's rural economy. In 1984 the government
reaffirmed and consolidated the positive results of the earlier reform and adjustment
program and provided guidelines for the direction of a future, primarily urban, reform
program.  China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry and
agriculture between 1980 and 2000 was also reaffirmed in 1984. The 1984 reform plan
emphasized the needs for breakthroughs in many areas, and more specifically in upgrading
managerial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed economy, and
extending utilization of foreign capital, advanced technology and the fruits of scientific
research. Reforms in the system of education and training to develop China's human
capital potential were recognized to be crucial.
2.4         As an integral element of the reform and modemization efforts, and within
the objectives of expanding access to higher education and improving higher education
quality, the govemment adopted three principal policies:  (a) to expand enrollment
especially in graduate programs; (b) to improve teaching and research programs including
curricula reform and teacher training; and (c) to improve the system's management.
Government policies included expanding enrollment in existing institutions, establishing
new institutions, and developing television universities. More specifically, the government
policy planned to (a) increase overall undergraduate enrollment at an average rate of about
10 percent per annum between 1983 and 1990, with rates of 14 percent and 8 percent
respectively for economic/finance and engineering. Additionally, postgraduate enrollments
would rise at a rate of 17 percent p.a.; (b) improve the quality of engineering and
economics/finance education in terms of curricula, teachers, experimental work and
academic support services; and (c) increase efficiency through improvements in planning
and management related to manpower development, the university entrance examination
system, physical facilities, resource utilization, project monitoring and evaluation, and
emphasizing expansion of enrollment in existing institutions rather than creation of new
ones.
2.5         Linkages between Project, Sector and Policy Objectives. In order to
address both the sectoral and policy considerations outlined above, the Association and the
Government developed a project which laid out the following objectives: (a) to support
faster growth of undergraduate and graduate enrollment in engineering as well as
economics and finance education; (b) to broaden overspecialized curricula; (c) to accelerate
in-service training and promotion of younger faculty; (d) to strengthen experimental work
and academic support services such as computer and audio-visual centers and libraries; (e)
to improve longer-term manpower planning, facilities planning and university resource
utilization; and (f) to strengthen the process of project monitoring and evaluation. In order
to support these objectives, the project was to finance (a) teaching and research equipment



- 3 -
for project universities; (b) books journals and computer software; (c) technical assistance
in the form of specialist consulting services and the support of an international advisory
panel; (d) overseas fellowship and faculty exchange programs; (e) teacher training centers;
(f) curriculum development, especially in economics and finance; and (g) institutional
management seminars and programs.
3.    Project Objectives and Descriptions
3.1         Project Objectives and Scope. The project sought to support the first phase
(July 1985-June 1989) of the Government's 10-year program (1985-94) to increase high-
level technical and managerial manpower through adjustments in enrollment, quality and
efficiency related to engineering and economics and finance. To achieve this goal, the
project was to implement a program of action on policy and institutional changes which
would address three basic issues of the subsector: low level and imbalanced structure of
enrollment, inadequate quality, and inefficient planning and management.
3.2         Project Components
(a)   Enrollment Level and Structure Adjustment. To increase enrollment and
redress structural imbalance, the project sought to (i) expand engineering,
economics and finance, and graduate education programs at differential
growth rates to adjust the imbalance of the overall university enrollment
structure in response to development needs; and (ii) give priority in
resources allocation to faculties which have stronger implementation and
leadership capacity in engineering and economics and finance to create
leading centers for training personnel for and from other institutions and
related industries.
(b)   Quality Improvement. To improve quality the project sought to broaden
undergraduate curricula in engineering and economics and finance by
reducing the number of specialties, increasing the proportion of general and
basic courses, and introducing new courses to produce graduates who could
meet the demands emerging from the modernization program. In addition,
the project aimed at revitalizing the teaching force in engineering and
economics and finance by lowering the average age through enforcement of
retirement policy, transferring unsuitable staff to nonteaching jobs through
the implementation of a displacement policy, accelerating in-service training
as well as postgraduate education as the source for new teachers, promoting
outstanding young teachers as replacement for retired and displaced
teachers. To improve experimentallresearch work as part of the required
engineering and economics and finance curricula, existing laboratories and
workshops were to be modernized and new ones built with appropriate
equipment. Finally, to strengthen academic support services the project
would improve libraries, computer centers, and audio-visual centers.



- 4 -
(c)   Planning and Management Development. Planning and management
capabilities were to be increased through improving the Planning and
Research Office within the Ministry of Education (MOE). This was to be
achieved by introducing new procedures to improve planning and
maintenance of facilities; increasing the student/staff ratio, utilization rates
of classrooms, laboratories and libraries, and the proportion of commuting
students; and establishing a mechanism to monitor and evaluate education
development projects by creating a central unit within MOE and local units
in individual universities.
(d)   Studies. The project planned to include studies to introduce new policies
on quality and management. The studies were to deal with university
quality monitoring and evaluation, student admission, and the management
of universities as institutions and as a system.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1         To assist in the above policy and institutional development objectives, the
project contained (a) initially 36 subprojects and then 39 subprojects in about 20 different
ministries and central agencies with financing mainly of instructional and research
materials, equipment and civil works including furniture to meet the needs of individual
universities; and (b) some four national programs with financing primarily for technical
assistance to meet the needs of the whole of the engineering and economics and finance
subsector. During the implementation of the Project, the new State Education Commission
(SEdC) (which in 1982 replaced MOE) and the Association decided to add three more
institutions (Fudan, Xiamen, and Nankai Universities) to strengthen the Project's
capabilities to work in the areas of economics and finance.
4.2         The subprojects and national programs under the project were prepared,
appraised and implemented by the Government, specifically MOE, with selective review
by the Association staff. Each subproject and national program was proposed according
to mutually developed and agreed upon procedures, criteria and guidelines. The project
took a sectoral approach in dealing with such issues as quality improvement and planning
an management development. This design element was included to enhance the impact of
the project on institutions well beyond the universities which were directly supported by
equipment investment.
4.3         Although there were 39 subprojects within in the project, IDA did not
include subproject indicators in the SAR which makes it difficult to assess the impact of
subprojects on sector or program goals beyond the development of the economics and
finance curriculum (see para. 5.13). The apparent inconsistency of a project designed as
a sector project but implemented and supervised as a traditional project with focus on
strengthening 39 individual universities is borne out by both IDA's and SEdC's gathering
and analyzing only subproject-university-data and not sector data.  Even SEdC's
provision of data at the end of the project reports only subproject data and not sector data.
Between design and implementation the sector focus was, by and large, lost.  This is,



however, not to say that the project failed to achieve substantial successes but, in
retrospect, the project design cannot be seen as totally successful.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         During the seven-year project implementation period (1986-92), IDA's
supervision missions reported smooth and successful implementation of the project within
subprojects. The only major problem associated with implementation of the project
resulted after the events of June 1989 when the dispatch of foreign consultants and
specialists was disrupted for a period of some six to nine months.
5.2         The State Education Commission was responsible for monitoring and
supervising the implementation of all aspects of the Project. The line ministries (to which
the majority of individual Project universities were responsible) each designated a high-
level ministry official to oversee Project implementation in those institutions. Each Project
university appointed a vice-president to run the Project on its own campus, under the
guidance of SEdC and the line ministry. An implementation unit, the "World Bank Loan
Office," was established at various administration levels for running the day-to-day work.
5.3         As part of the Credit Agreement between the Association and the Chinese
Government, a Chinese Review Commission (CRC) and an International Advisory Panel
(LAP) were established in February 1985 to advise SEdC and the Project universities on
a broad range of issues involved in the implementation of the Project. The Panel was
appointed by SEdC and comprised a chairman and two vice-chairmen, the latter with more
specific responsibility in Engineering and Economics, and Finance. The selection of Panel
members was made by SEdC based on nominations from the Association, the US National
Academy of Sciences, and the chairman of the IAP of the first University Development
Project (see paras. 10.1-10.4).
5.4         Civil Works. The civil works were implemented during the early years of
the project and covered construction of new buildings and renovation of physical facilities
and furniture. New laboratory buildings were built to house the new laboratories and
equipment as well as new libraries or addition to old libraries. The civil works were
financed with local counterpart funds, implemented by the universities and supervised by
the university loan offices established by SEdC.
5.5         Equipment Procurement. The major portion of IDA credit funds was used
for equipment procurement. The first phase procurement process started in 1985 with the
review of procurement documents prior to project effectiveness by the IAP. This initial
review of the procurement documents by the IAP played an important role in facilitating
the large percentage of funds disbursed early in the project. The IAP was able to assist
the Chinese and IDA in identifying research equipment that was too sophisticated and to
encourage the universities to focus on research equipment of intermediate complexity. In
addition, the IAP and CRC encouraged the universities to purchase maintenance
agreements and undergraduate laboratory equipment appropriate to support teaching



programs. It was felt that undergraduate laboratory equipment was inexpensive, relatively
simple, and provided considerable value added toward the effectiveness of undergraduate
teaching. The first bidding proceeded smoothly and there was evidence that certain pieces
of equipment were not requested as a result of the IAP and CRC reviews.
5.6         The second and third bids also proceeded smoothly. In supervision missions
IDA and the IAP reported that many universities had purchased equipment of intermediate
complexity and that there were undergraduate labs that were equipped with project funds.
5.7         During the last year of the project there were additional funds accruing to
the project through shifts in the SDR/dollar exchange rate. As a result of this accrual,
IDA took the advice of the IAP and CRC and recommended to SEdC, in March 1990, that
these funds be used for purchases of spare parts, auxiliary equipment, maintenance of
project procured equipment, and further training of economics and finance teachers. The
project was extended for an additional two years (to December 31, 1992) to complete the
procurement and these final purchases did include spare parts, auxiliary equipment, and
maintenance.
5.8         Technical Assistance. Increasing the quantity and improving the quality of
faculty were two major goals of the Project for both the Chinese government and IDA.
The Project sought to achieve these goals by supporting in-service training for existing
teachers and training of young people at home and abroad. The Project supported two
kinds of in-service training programs. The first worked with the existing stock of mid-
level teachers who already had a good background in teaching and research but whose
skills needed to be strengthened and updated. The second type of in-service training
worked with key, high-level faculty with strong academic and research backgrounds to
strengthen the academic and professional leadership of engineering and economics and
finance in Project institutions. To reach these goals the Project established two teacher
training centers, at Wuhan and Beijing Normal Universities. These two centers reportedly
served the faculty development needs of the Project universities as well as the other
Chinese universities, and over the life of the project trained more than 2000 teachers.
5.9         The teacher training centers clearly did good work in creating a system to
strengthen the teaching skills and disciplinary knowledge of a large number of teaching
staff in China's normal universities and colleges. The imaginative array of training
programs, extensive information, and training networks reportedly made a difference in
upgrading the teaching staff. The impact of the relatively small amount of project funds
on this effort has been, by all accounts, catalytic.
5.10        Faculty members were also sent abroad as short-term visiting scholars and
longer-term degree-seeking students. The implementation of the fellowships program was
consistently ahead of projections. By December 31, 1992, 1,563 short- and long-term
fellows (221 visiting scholars and 1342 graduate students) had been sent abroad, more than
double the original target of 707.



5.11        Project specialists from abroad were invited to China to lecture and provide
technical assistance and advice on research activities and curricula reform. From the start
of the Project in 1985 through December 31, 1992, the project was to support 357
international specialists. The project ultimately supported 343 Project specialists from 20
countries and regions in 39 universities. The IAP and CRC have played a vital role in
selecting or screening Chinese nominations to assure invitation of the appropriate foreign
experts. The LAP and CRC also played critical roles in designing and implementing
management seminars in (a) Graduate Admissions Seminar, (b) University Fiscal
Management Seminar, (c) Library Automation Seminar, and (d) Engineering Software.
5.12        The project specialists have been sent to China according to four general
categories.  The first, the Regular Program, supported 232 short-term specialist in
engineering and economics and finance who spent up to a month lecturing, consulting, and
advising, generally in a specific discipline or subdiscipline. The second, the National
Program for Economics and Finance, supported 80 specialists who lectured, advised on
curriculum development, taught semester-long courses, took part in economics seminars,
and taught both long- and short-term  teacher training programs.  The third, the
Management Seminars Program, supported 17 specialists to give three-week seminars in
computer center management, library automation, graduate entrance examinations, and
university fiscal management. The fourth, the Teacher Training Centers Program,
supported 14 specialists to lecture in specific disciplines to assist in strengthening the in-
service teacher training capabilities at Beijing Normal and Wuhan Universities.
5.13        Curriculum Development. In 1987 the project organized an Economics and
Finance Curriculum Development Seminar which included participation by international
and Chinese experts in the economics and finance area. This seminar recommended the
development and introduction of a new minimum core curriculum in the area of economics
and finance. This new eleven course curriculum was the first attempt to systematically
introduce an integrated modern curriculum to Chinese undergraduate teaching. In March
1990 SEdC recommended that the 250 Chinese universities and colleges with an
undergraduate program in economics and finance to use the newly published teaching
syllabi and textual materials for the new minimum core courses. With the March 1990
SEdC recommendation to implement the new minimum core curriculum, the initial steps
in the modernization of the economics and finance curriculum was completed. This initial
phase included the 1987 Curriculum Development Seminar, drafting syllabi for core
courses, discussing and finalizing them in a series of domestic and intemational workshops
and finally, holding teacher training classes on these syllabi. IDA missions recognized the
development and introduction of the new curriculum as the major accomplishment of the
project in the area of economics and finance.
6.    Project Results
6.1         Enrollment Level. The major objectives of the project-expanding higher
education enrollment, improving quality of teaching methods, improving planning and
management and carrying out studies related to the other objectives-have been partially
achieved. Implementation indicators show that the project met most of its targets and, in



- 8 -
many instances, surpassed them (see Table 4). For example, engineering enrollments were
104 percent of the targets and economics and finance were 130 percent.
6.2         Quality Inprovement. The project's support for the creation of a new
economics and finance curriculum and the introduction of new and broadening of existing
engineering courses was a primary element in increasing the quality of both undergraduate
and graduate teaching. Additionally, the increase in the number of faculty with advanced
degrees which occurred during the period of the project, many of them degrees achieved
by project-supported overseas study, point to the improvement of the quality of the
teaching faculty. New research instrumentation and computational equipment have also
allowed new teaching and research courses to be developed.
6.3         Planning and Management Development. The project was to introduce
a system to monitor and evaluate policy objectives within MOE and subproject universities
and to this end foreign investment and loan offices were established at both levels. Staff
in these offices received extensive management training and provided ongoing support to
IDA and the IAP and CRC in the implementation of the project.
6.4         The project was also able to achieve a somewhat higher level of efficiency
within the project with an increase in the student-teacher ratio and utilization of
laboratories and libraries. Student-teacher ratio indicators show that targets were not fully
achieved during the life of the project although they do show improvement over base line
indicators (see Table 4). The average weekly utilization hours for laboratories in project
universities increased from 19.5 in 1983 to 65.9 in 1990 and library hours increased from
36 to 75. Although there was an increase in the number of hours that libraries remained
open, they fell short of the project target of 90 hours.
6.5         The project sought to increase the enrollment of commuting students from
3 percent to 10 percent. However, due to transportation difficulties, insufficient study
areas, and a common perception that the quality of these students was inferior to that of
resident students, it was extremely difficult for project universities to reach the targets
established by the project. Although they fell short there was an increase to 5 percent.
6.6         Studies. Project supported studies were either carried out by SEdC, or, as
in the case of university financial management, turned into an international seminar given
by four rectors of German universities.  The proposed study on establishing and
maintaining university standards was also turned into an international seminar which
focused on graduate entrance examination system. Remaining funds in this category were
allocated and partially used for a IDA-SEdC workshop on financing higher education which
was subsequently canceled because of the events of June 1989. Remaining unspent funds
in this category were ultimately allocated to buy spare parts for project purchased
equipment.



-9-
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1         The planning for the project took place in the early 1980s and was
envisioned as the first of phase of a 10-year program to provide China with high-level
technical and managerial manpower. The project has helped achieve these goals through
project supported training programs and increased enrollments.
7.2         Sustainability of project benefits can be examined in terms of operation and
maintenance of equipment and facilities, enrollment, and curricula and faculty
development. Shortage of foreign exchange to purchase spare parts and maintenance has
hampered the operation of equipment during the life of the project. Some of these
problems have been alleviated in the short run with the increase in project funds; however,
problems may arise after the maintenance contracts end.
7.3         Enrollments increased rapidly during the first two years of the project
because of the increase in the number of institutions of higher education from 805 in 1983
to 1075 in 1992. There was a strong concern on the part of SEdC that this proliferation
of new institutions was at the expense of quality in faculty, teaching, and course offerings.
SEdC decided that universities could not sustain this level of growth and that they should
stabilize undergraduate enrollment by freezing intake of freshman students. The LAP and
CRC felt that it is necessary to maintain a balance between the short- and long-term
interests and that reductions in enrollments should occur only after a careful assessment
of the potential impact on targeted institutions. The project does not seem to have had an
impact, positive or negative, on SEdC's decision to freeze university enrollments, one of
the major sectoral decisions taken during the life of the project.
7.4         The greatest short-term  impact of the project was on curriculum
development, especially in the areas of economics and finance.  The long-term
sustainability of these efforts could be a problem, however, unless there is continued
training on new syllabi, institutionalization of a syllabi compilation mechanism, support
for textbook-writing, and organization of end-user seminars to identity specific problems
in the economics and finance curriculum. In June 1991, the IAP and CRC presented the
Chinese government with their final evaluation report which provided specific long-term
recommendations for sustainability of the efforts in the development of the an economics
and finance curriculum.
7.5         The human resource area of faculty development will have greatest long-
term impact. Taking into consideration the continuing problem of the slow return of
Chinese students and faculty sent abroad for advance degrees, the best way to sustain
faculty development is for Chinese universities to work out effective ways of upgrading
and promoting sufficient numbers of younger faculty.
8.   International Development Association (IDA) Performance
8.1         IDA played a major role in defining the objectives of both this project as
well as its precursor, University Development Project I.  Working with Chinese



- 10-
counterparts, IDA preparation teams developed a sectoral approach to the second project,
one that would focus on strengthening economics and finance as well as engineering in
institutions well beyond the direct impact of project universities receiving equipment and
technical assistance.
8.2         Since this was a sector loan, IDA focused on sector targets. However, the
borrower viewed the loan as a project loan and as a result, focused on achievements in
individual project universities, not national level sector impact. The lesson to be drawn
from this experience is that a sector designed project can only be successful if the borrower
fully understands, designs and implements a project from the start.
8.3         SEdC, working with IDA, established an IAP and CRC, agreed on their
terms of reference, and selected highly qualified professors and specialists to assist SEdC
and project universities in the implementation of this project. The establishment of an IAP
and CRC contributed substantially to the overall effectiveness of implementation. IDA
staff fully cooperated with the IAP and CRC. Difficulties with technical assistance,
equipment and book procurement, and other project components were discussed and
resolved at semi-annual meetings between the IAP, CRC and IDA.
8.4         The IAP and CRC felt IDA, in the initial design of the project, had not paid
adequate attention to the issue of maintenance agreements for the newly purchased-and
highly sophisticated-equipment supported by the project. However, close to project
completion, IDA did insist that a substantial part of the funds available in the project as
a result of the shifts in the SDR/dollar exchange rate be used for maintenance costs
associated with the sophisticated research equipment purchased with project funds.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1         The performance of SEdC and the project institutions was excellent,
particularly with regard to equipment and book procurement and technical assistance.
SEdC drew from their experience with the first university development project in
equipment and book procurement and technical assistance and passed it on to the project
institutions.
9.2         During the implementation the staff of the Foreign Investment and Loan
Office (FILO), SEdC, coordinated the project institutions in procurement and installation
of equipment, the technical assistance programs, and preparation of annual progress and
audit reports sent to IDA. They collected the necessary data for project preparation,
implementation, and completion.
9.3         The Borrower fulfilled its commitment in providing counterpart funds for
civil works and the project institutions were able to complete the civil works in time to
install the imported and locally procured equipment. However, the allocation of recurrent
costs was a problem.



- 11 -
10.   Consulting Services of the IAP and CRC
10.1        The LAP and CRC were formed by SEdC and IDA during the preparation
stage of the project and consisted of prominent professors and specialists. The IAP and
CRC played a major role in project implementation and evaluations. The members and
the Secretariat, that supported the IAP, were fully dedicated to the project operations.
10.2        Members of the IAP and CRC and staff of the secretariat visited all project
universities to discuss project implementation, to provide advice on a broad range of issues
including curricula reform, and to monitor progress. In addition, the IAP and CRC held
nine policy review meetings attended by IDA staff and SEdC and other concerned Chinese
officials. The meetings discussed a broad range of implementation issues such as
equipment procurement and recurrent costs, curricula development, and effective
implementation of technical assistance. The last joint policy meetings resulted in a detailed
evaluation report, some of which is reflected in this report.
10.3        The IAP played a lead role in the planning and development of the
economics curriculum development seminar. It offered many important recommendations
to SEdC and the project universities on the overall implementation of the Project. The IAP
also played a critical role in sustaining the implementation of technical assistance after the
events of June 1989 brought a lengthy hiatus to sending international consultants to China.
In addition, it provided a valuable link between the Chinese academic community and the
international scientific community.
10.4        The IAP and CRC through their joint policy meetings and site visits,
provided substantial supervisory assistance, albeit informal, to the Bank. The role of the
LAP and CRC was judged by the Bank to be extremely valuable in the overall supervision
of the project.
11.   Project Documentation and Data
11.1        Staff Appraisal Report and Other Working Documents. The SAR was
prepared as a result of sector work by the Bank Group and feasibility studies carried out
by SEdC. The report clearly defined the project objectives and components and provided
guidance for project implementation. Cost estimates were relatively accurate. By the end
of the project period changes in the foreign exchange rate allowed for an increase in the
equipment and technical assistance procurement within the originally planned scope of the
project.
11.2        On the other hand, the accuracy of project financing is difficult to determine
because the overall financing was defined in terms of the entire engineering and economics
sector over the five year project period. The SAR did not provide counterpart financing
data for subprojects and since the borrower collected financial data for a project style loan
(not a sector loan) a comparison of counterpart funds cannot be made (see Table 6).



- 12 -
11.3        The SAR only provides sectoral targets. Without subproject targets to
evaluate the implementation of the project, there is difficulty in assessing any meaningful
project impact on the sector goals. This is more so the case when at project completion
only subproject data, or aggregates of subproject data are provided for review. These
inconsistencies indicate a mismatch during the design period between IDA and borrower
goals and perceptions of the project. The sector approach for project design, useful for
understanding and diagnosing the issues on which the project should focus was less
successful in providing an appropriate mechanism for implementing and supervising the
project.
11.4        Evaluation Data. The evaluation activities of SEdC, the LAP, and CRC
were based on sample site visits and a select group of qualitative criteria. The IAP and
CRC visited 22 sample universities and gathered data according to their criteria. The
results of SEdC, the IAP, and CRC investigations were reported in a comprehensive
evaluation report that was prepared during the final joint policy meeting in November
1990. The final report was presented to Li Tieying, the Minister of Education, on June
19, 1991.
12.   Lessons Learned
12.1        The main lessons learned from the project experiences are:
(a)   Reform of the Chinese higher education sector is most possible within a
supportive policy environment in which all participants, both within and
outside the education sector are in fundamental agreement on the scope,
pace and direction of reform.  The project's economics/finance core
curriculum work was only possible because a political consensus existed in
China in 1985/86 at the start of the project, which supported the view that
only by reforming the economic system could China achieve sustained
growth. The Chinese government recognized that to reform the economy
it must change the way it trained its economists and administrators. This
consensus existed in all sectors of the economy and throughout the
government and facilitated the rapid development of the curriculum.
(b)   Implementation of a project designed as a sector loan is possible only if
there is an understanding on the part of both the borrower and IDA as to
how a sector project is designed, developed, and implemented. In this case,
the borrower, from the beginning, viewed this loan as a project loan and as
a result, implemented and assessed the project on this basis. Likewise, IDA
did an inadequate job of working with the borrower to fully explain the
differences between and reasons for sector and project loans.  This
confusion from the very beginning resulted in a credit-supported activity
which was described as a sector loan with sector goals but was implemented
as a project loan with subproject goals. Accordingly, impact of the project
on the overall sector goals (i.e., enrollment, quality and management) is



- 13 -
difficult to assess because they were not monitored by either the borrower
of IDA during project implementation.
(c)   The sector approach to project development was not totally a loss but was
successful only when the project's impact on the economics and finance
curriculum  is taken into account.  The new curriculum  affects 250
institutions, well beyond the nine economics and finance institutions actually
supported in the project. The lesson to be drawn from this experience is
that sector designed projects can only be successful if the borrower fully
understands, designs and implements a sector activity from the start. This
includes providing project targets that can be used to realistically evaluate
success in implementing policy action plan goals. Confusion between IDA
and the borrower on the fundamental goals (and thereby the targets) of a
project makes the project difficult to assess.
(d)   The program approach to project design was a useful method to analyze and
assess national issues and propose national solutions.  In light of the
development of a national economics and finance curriculum which
continues to be developed and taught well after project completion, the
program approach has some merit. However, IDA and the borrower must
both agree on how a program approach can be used to support sustained
policy development over a period of time and through small projects. This
has not been the case in IDA's continuing work in higher education in
China.
(e)   The international technical assistance in education projects can provide vital
and important educational inputs into a reform process which is underway
and is fully supported by the educational policy structure. Major changes
in economics and finance curriculum were possible for these reasons.
International impact on the engineering curriculum was not as evident,
primarily because it was felt by Chinese university administrators and
academics that fundamental change in this sector was not critically
necessary. The role of the IAP and CRC in preparing, implementing and
evaluating education projects in China has been important. Both IDA and
the Chinese government have recognized their importance.
(f)    Continuing efforts should be made to include maintenance contracts with the
purchase of sophisticated equipment. Capacity to operate and maintain
these major investments should be a main concern.



- 14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. COMMENTS ON THE ANALYSIS IN PART I
1.          The Borrower recognizes that the descriptions and the analysis of the
background, objectives, design, implementation and results of the project CUDP II
contained in Part I, by and large, conform to the actual situation. It also agrees with the
comments and recommendations presented in the Evaluation Report by the IAP and CRC,
which seem to have no substantial difference from those given in Part I.
2.          As indicated in Part I, the Chinese government placed within the education
sector a priority upon the rapid expansion and improvement of higher education to help
reduce the manpower constraints on national development in two dimensions: the low
level of overall enrollment and the imbalance of enrollment structure in higher education.
In 1980, the Borrower approached the World Bank proposing an a9sistance plan to
strengthen Chinese higher education. The proposal was more extensive than the Bank
could consider at that time, so the Borrower decided to stage the programs over a
prolonged period of time. Accordingly, MOE [reorganized as the Stated Education
Commission (SEdC) in 1985] of the government, working with the World Bank, initiated
the first university project (CUDP I) to strengthen science and engineering programs in 28
national level key universities. While it was implemented, IDA and MOE began program
work on the project CUDP II in 1983. Immediately before it became effective in mid-
1985, the government announced a "Decision on the Reform of the Educational Structure,"
which brought about a wide range of educational policy changes to further adapt the
national economic reform and development. It was this major reform of the higher
education system that set the stage for the CUDP II.
3.          The project CUDP II, following the successful experience of the preceding
projects, was at first devised as a "project loan" to support the development of about 35
higher education institutions in engineering and economics/finance subsector. Later at
appraisal, however, MOE agreed with the recommendation of IDA in dialogue to modify
the design to make the project as a "sector loan." At the request of IDA, MOE delivered
a signed letter of policy to it, describing the sectoral goal, policies and a program of action
for the development of the engineering and economics/finance education subsector and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the action program. This goal
and the program of action were further briefed in the SAR and repeated exactly in Part I
of the PCR.
4.          Yet there were new problems in the process of project design. It was the
first time for the Borrower's project implementing agencies in differential levels to manage



- 15 -
a "sector loan," hence, they were unfamiliar with it all. Moreover, MOE, being a
functional department of the central government, has only the authority to coordinate
implementation and recommend reform of the national education policies, but cannot
directly control the administrative management of the majority of higher education
institutions. Furthermore, the credit proceeds of the project was allocated only to finance
directly 36 (later increased to 39) subproject institutions and some national programs.
Therefore, the other nonsubproject universities in engineering and economics/finance
subsector would not accept the assignment to implement as project institutions, though they
would benefit from the impact of the project. MOE had inquired of IDA about the
guidelines of implementation of a "sector loan," yet no adequate explanatory and guiding
document but the SAR of the project was available. As a result of consultation with IDA
in dialogue, they were instructed: (a) the regular supervision missions of IDA and the
field visits of the IAP, and CRC might not cover the nonsubproject institutions of
engineering and economics/finance education; (b) the annual progress reports and the audit
reports of the project might focus their contents on the subprojects and the national
programs; (c) a table of "performance target" indicators was attached to the SAR (Annex
15) and had to be filled at mid-period and completion of the project and should be
demonstrated by sectoral indicators; and (d) any change of programs of action and target
indicators related to sectoral goals should be approved by IDA before implementation. The
actual exercises did accord to the above demands. However, the inconsistency of the
project in design and in implementation seems inevitable and having no alternative. The
impact of the project on sector goals were indeed difficult to be assessed, not only because
of the confusion resulted in a credit-supported activity described as a "sector loan" but
implemented more or less as a "project loan," but also because of the complicated
situations of the project components.
5.          The Borrower acknowledges the conclusion given in Part I based on the
reports of IDA supervision missions that the project implementation within the subproject
had run smooth and successful. It also deems that the brief descriptions of the project
implementation contained in Part I are sufficient to affirm the above conclusion, and no
more points but a few clarifications have to be added as supplements. Besides, it should
be noticed that over 90 percent of IDA credit and about the equal amount of counterpart
local funds was allocated to support the subprojects for procurement of civil works,
equipment and teaching and research materials, as well as technical assistance and
fellowships.
6.          Building on the successful experience of the preceding projects, the
Borrower and IDA decided to create an IAP and a CRC to advise on implementation of
the project. As a further step in this case, the decision had been written into the Credit
Agreement as a part of it. The excellent performance of the IAP and CRC in playing their
roles had once more offered evidence of the correctness of the decision. The Borrower
would like to highly appreciate the contribution of the two organizations in advising the
project implementing agencies and the project institutions, coordinating and directing the
activities of the project specialists, and especially in this sectoral project, designing and
facilitating implementation of the national programs.



- 16 -
7.          The organization of an Economics and Finance Curriculum Development
Seminar and thereby the development and introduction of a new undergraduate minimum
core curriculum in the area of economics and finance was an unexpected action beyond the
original design of the project. In view that the core curriculum had been recommended
by SEdC for use in Chinese universities and colleges, it may be recognized as a major
accomplishment of the project. Of course, this is not the only achievement. The project
also supported for the introduction of the new and broadened engineering courses as well
as decrease number of specialty from 500 to some 200, yet the outcome and impact of the
latter were smaller because of the wide range and complex structure of the engineering
subsector.
8.          Being designed as a sector loan and containing some national programs with
financing mainly for technical assistance, the project had placed priority upon the specialist
services in the project implementation. Thanks to the assistance from the IAP and CRC,
the nomination and invitation of the project specialists and the coordination of their work
were implemented smoothly in most cases. After the events of June 1989, though the
Chinese government made great efforts to eliminate its negative effect, some specialists
were still affected by possible misunderstandings and hesitated traveling to China. Anyhow
these were over quite soon, and over 95 percent of the invited specialists had carried out
their promise to China. As a whole, it seems not a major problem.
B. ADEQUACY AND AccuRAcY OF FACTUAL INFORMATION IN PART m
9.          Part III of the PCR contains nine tables of statistical information about the
evolution and implementation of the project. The Borrower deems that, on the whole, they
are adequate and accurate sufficiently for illustrating the major elements relating to the
general state of the project. Maybe some supplement or modification to them would make
the illustration more complete and understandable. (a) For Table 4, "Implementation
Indicators," a few footnotes should be added for clarification. (b) Also for Table 4, it
would be interesting for someone to add a table of indicators collected from each of the
project institutions. Most of the data had been ready for use. (c) In Table 6, "Project
Financing," the two groups of data under the titles "Appraisal Sector Amount" and "Actual
Project Amount" are not accounted along the same lines. It would be better to turn the
first group into "Projected Sector Amount."
C. EVALUATION OF IDA'S PERFORMANCE
10.        IDA officials participating in the preparation and appraisal of this project
were not only highly professional and qualified with their task, but also quite enthusiastic
and sincere in their work. Since many of them had cooperated with the Chinese
counterparts in two preceding projects, they were already familiar with the working
situation of the Chinese education projects and the working style of MOE/SEdC staff.
Although this is the third project of cooperation between IDA and MOE/SEdC, and the
first project had just began its implementation in two years, IDA management and officials
had already full confidence in the ability and experience of the Chinese staff, so they
encouraged the Borrower to design and implement the project as a "sector loan." IDA



- 17 -
staff also closely cooperated with the IAP and CRC, attended their joint policy meetings,
curriculum development in finance/economics area and other programs.
D. EVALuATION OF BORRowER's PERFORMANCE
11.         Although MOE had gained certain experiences in the implementation of the
preceding projects, it was unfamiliar with a project focusing on sectoral objectives.
Moreover, most of the project institutions and their related line ministries had even no
experience at all in dealing with an IDA-supported project. However, thanks to the
enthusiasm and diligence of the staff of the project participants, most of the difficulties had
been overcome in the period of implementation. Some relating departments of MOEISEdC
also played vital roles in organizing and holding the seminars or studies in national
programs which made impact on the sectoral goals of the project.



PART mII: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank/IDA Loans and/or Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title             approval                          Purpose                               Status      Managed by
University Development Project    1981    The project sought to strengthen science & engineering in 28    completed 1987   SEdC
(Ln. 2021-CHA, Cr. 1167-CHA)              leading Chinese Universities. Objectives were to increase the
quality & quality of graduates & research, to strengthen the
planning & management capabilities & to prepare investments
in the education sector.
Agriculture Education and      1983       The project was designed to assist agriculture higher education  completed 1988   Ministry of
Research Project                          and research in 11 agricultural colleges and 7 institutions.            Agriculture,
(Cr. 1297-CHA)                                                                                                    Animal Hus-
bandry and
Fishery
Polytechnic/Television Univ.   1984       The project sought to increase the number of students & to  completed 1989   SEdC
Project                                   improve the quality of instruction in China's 17 Polytechnic
(Cr. 1441-CHA)                            Institutions & 28 television Universities.
Rural Health and Medical       1984       The education component of this project was designed to  completed 1989   Ministry of
Education Project                          enhance the quality of education, training & curriculum.               Public Health
(Cr. 1472-CHA)
Second Agricultural Education  1984       The project sought to improve & assist agriculture education in  completed 1991   Ministry of
Project                                   23 agricultural colleges, 12 agrisultural technical schools.            Agriculture,
(Ln. 2444-CHA)                                                                                                    Animal Hus-
bandry and
Fishery
Provincial University Project  1985       The project was to provide direct assistance to 60 provincial    completed 1991   SEdC
(Cr. 167 1-CHA)                           universities in 28 province and planning assistance for the
higher education subsector.
... continued



1. Related Bank/IDA Loans and/or Credits (cont'd)
Year of
Loan/credit title             approval                          Purpose                               Status      Managed by
Gansu Provincial Development   1988       It is part of a comprehensive plan to attain universal nine-year  to be completed   Gansu Pro-
Project-Education Component               basic education and to improve the quality of instruction in  in 1993   vincial Gov-
(Ln. 2812-CHA, Cr. 1793-CHA)              prinary and lower secondary schools in Gansu Province.                  ernment
Teacher Training Project       1989       To promote universal basic education through the expansion    to be completed   SEdC
(Cr. 1908-CHA)                            and upgrading of in service training for lower secondary school in 1994
teachers.
Textbook Development Project    1989      The project supports the textbooks upgrading program by the   to be completed   SEdC
(Cr. 2006-CHA)                            Chinese Government. Objectives are to improve the educa-    in 1995
tional quality of textbooks at al levels of schooling, to increase
the variety of available textbooks & to improve the efficiency
of textbook production.
Vocational & Technical Education  1990    To improve the quality of technical & vocational training in    to be completed   SEdCC
Project                                   China through supporting 59 secondary v/t schools in 1 prov-   in 1995
(Cr. 2114-CHA)                            inces and 3 municipalities.
Medium-sized Cities            1990       The project assists the Changzhou, Luoyang Shashi cities to    to be completed   SEdC
Development Project                       improve overall and sector planning and management, includ-  in 1995
(LN. 3286-CHA)                            ing education.
Key Studies Development Project  1991     The project supports the government's plan to reform the  to be completed   SEdC
(CR. 2210-CHA)                            management of science and technology programs. It consists   in 1995
of support for research and graduate training in 133 State Key
Laboratories and Special Labs affiliated with Universities and
with Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Education Development in Poor    1992     The project supports three main goals for the development of   to be completed   SEdC
Provinces                                 education in relatively poor provinces-Shanxi, Shaanix,  in 1996
(CR. 2339-CHA)                             Hubei, Hunan, Guijhou and Yunan.
Effective Teaching Service Project  1993   The central aim of the project is to contribute to improved  to be completed   SEdC
(CR. 2471-CHA)                            learning at the lower middle school level by providing teaching  in 1998
services, including instructional methodology, teacher training
and management of teacher training and assignment.



- 20 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                               Date planned         Date revised        Date actual
Identification                        12/1981                     -            1/1983
Preappraisal                           6/1983                     -            9/1983
Appraisal mission                   2-3/1984                      -          2-3/1984
Negotiations                           1/1985                     -            1/1985
Board approval                        2/26/85                     -           2/26/85
Credit signature                      3/15/85                     -           3/15/85
Credit effectiveness                  6/12/85                     -           6/12/85
Project completion                   12/31/89             12131/91           12/31/92
Credit closing                       12/31/91             12/31/92           12/31/92
3. Credit Disbursement ($ million)
IDA FY                       1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990  1991 1992  1993  Total
Appraisal estimate            0.0  1.5  27.5  43.5  36.5  29.0   7.0  0.0   0.0  145.0
Cumulative as % of total      0.0  1.0  20.0  50.0  75.0  95.0  100.0  0.0   0.0      -
Actual disbursement           7.7 25.4  76.6  21.0  8.2  32.0   7.1  11.0   1.0  190.0
Cumulative as % of total      4.1 17.5  57.8  68.9  73.2  90.0  93.7  99.5  100.0     -
Date of final
disbursement: 2/93



- 21 -
4. Implementation Indicators
Indicator                                           Appraisal national targets
1983          1990           1990            %
actual        target         actual        of target
Engineering
Intake                             131,000       215,000        208,285            97%
Output                             111,000       180,000        195,841           122%
Enrollment                        418,000        720,000        745,613           104%
Economics/Finance
Intake                             29,000         68,000         64,446            95%
Output                              13,000        50,000         66,380           133%
Enrollnent                         71,000        170,000        220,494           130%
No. of Specialty Areas
Engineering                           500            200            204
Economics/Finance                      51             30             31
% of Specialized Courses
Engineering                            15             10         no data
Economics/Finance                      20             15
% of Experiments Performed
Engineering
Basic Training                        69             80           84.6
Specialized Training                  60             72           84.3
No. of Total teachers recruited,
transferred, and retired
Engineering
Total teachers                     104.5          102.9          180.5
Recruited                            6.9            9.2
Transferred                          0.7            2.8
Retired                              0.7            2.8
Economics
Total teachers                      11.8           17.0           19.2
Recruited                            0.8            1.5
Transferred                          0.1            0.5
Retired                              0.1            0.5
Teacher/Student Ratio
Engineering                            1:4           1:7            1:5
Economics/Finance                      1:6          1:10            1:7
Average Age of Staff
Eng/Econ/Fin                           45             40         no data
Faculty Development:
National: % of Faculty with
Ph.D., Master's or equivalent
Eng/EconlFin                         17             30             50
% of Commuting Students
Eng/Econ/Fin                            3             10              5



- 22 -
5. Project Cost ($ million)
Appraisal
estimates              Actual
Component                                   IDA                    IDA
Civil works                                   0.0                   0.00
Equipment                                   108.0                 170.40
Specialists services                          4.0                   7.30
Exchange programs                             1.0                   .30
Fellowships                                  12.0                  12.00
Future project, planning studies              4.0                   0.02
Other                                        16.0                   0.00
Total-                                   145.0                 190.02
6. Project Fnancing (in $ million)
Source            Projected SAR amounts   Percent-   Actual project amounts
Local  Foreign    Total    age    Local  Foreign   Total
Government      698.0  319.0   1,017.0   87.5   188.8         -
IDA                 -   145.0    145.0   12.5         -  190.02        -
Total        698    4L4,Q   1.162.0  100.0    188.8  190.02   378.82



- 23 -
7. Status of Covenants for the Second University Development Project
Credit                                                                  Deadline
agreement                           Subject                             compliance         Status
Section 2.02 (b)    The Borrower shall maintain in dollars a special account  effectiveness  compliance
in a Bank acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.01(a)   The Borrower's commitment to fulfill the project objec-  effectiveness  compliance
tives, to carry our the Project through MOE with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropri-
ate administrative, financial, and education practices and
to provide the need funds, faciLities, services and other
resources required for the project.
Section 3.01(b)   The Borrower shall maintain the Central Coordinating  effectiveness     compliance
Committee established for the purposes of the Project
and should include representatives from MOE, Ministry
of Finance, and State Planning Commission. The Bor-
rower shall also maintain the Chinese Review Commis-
sion and the International Advisory Panel established for
the purposes of the Project, including experts in engi-
neering, economics and finance, with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.02      The Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifica-   effectiveness  compliance
ions, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such con-
sultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers.
Section 3.03(a)   The Borrower undertakes to insure to make adequate   during project    compliance
provision for the insurance of imported goods to be  implementation
financed out of proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation, delivery, and
installation.
Section 3.03(b)   The Borrower shall insure that all goods and services  during project  compliance
financed out of the Credit be used exclusively for the  implementation
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04(a)   The Borrower shall furnish the Association with the  during project     compliance
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and  implementation
work and procurement schedules for the Project.
Section 3.04(b)   The Borrower shall maintain records and procedures   during project    compliance
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Proj-  implementation
ect; shall enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds; and shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals information on cost
and, where appropriate, benefits to be derived and the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds.
Section 3.04(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, the Borrower   12/31/92       compliance
shall prepare a report for the Association on the execu-
tion of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived, and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05      The Borrower shall acquire when needed aU land and   during project    compliance
rights as required for carrying out the Project, and shall  implementation
fumish, upon request, satisfactory evidence to the Asso-
ciation.
continued



- 24 -
7. Status of Covenants for the Second University Development Project (cont'd)
Credit                                                                Deadline
agreement                           Subject                           compliance         Status
Section 3.06(a)   The Borrower shall allocate the proceeds of the Credit   during project  compliance
for subprojects and National Programs.            implementation
Section 3.06(b)    Select subprojects.                               effectiveness     compliance
Section 3.06(c)   Appraise and approve National Programs and subproj-   effectiveness  compliance
ects.
Section 3.07      The Borrower shall award fellowships under the Project  during project  compliance
in accordance with selection criteria and procedures  implementation
agreed with the Association.
Section 3.08(a)   The Borrower shall carry out studies in accordance with  during project  see para. 6.1
terms of reference and schedules acceptable to the Asso-  implementation
ciation.
Section 3.08(b)    Upon completion, prepare summary and analysis of the   during project  see para. 6.1
findings of the studies.                          implementation
Section 4.01(a)   The Borrower shall maintain records in accordance with  effectiveness  compliance
appropriate accounting practices
Section 4.01(b)    The Borrower shall maintain separate accounts reflecting  during project  compliance
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are    implementation
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure; retain all records for one year after
the Closing Date; and enable the Associations representa-
tives to examine the records.
Section 4.01(c)   The Borrower shall have accounts audited each fiscal  during project  compliance
year; supply the Association with certified copy no later  implementation
than eight months after the audit; furnish the Association
with information on accounts, records and expenditures
when requested.
Section 4.02      The Borrower shall cause facilities and equipment pro-   during project  compliance
vided under the Project to be operated, maintained,  implementation
renewed and repaired in accordance with sound adminis-
trative, financial, engineering and educational policies
and practices.
Section 4.03(a)   The Borrower shall monitor the progress achieved in  during project  compliance
carrying out the Action Program.                   implementation
Section 4.03(b)   To assist in carrying out the monitoring and evaluation    during project  compliance
the Borrower shall maintain the central monitoring unit  implementation
within MOE and the local monitoring unit with each
subproject institution.
Section 4.03(c)   The Borrower and the Association shall hold comprehen- during project  compliance
sive annual joint reviews by November of each year to   implementation
evaluate progress in Project implementation.
Section 4.03(d)    The Borrower and the Association shall also hold a com-  11/30/87   compliance
prehensive mid-term joint review by November 30,
1987.
Section 4.04      The Borrower shall maintain the Central Coordinating    effectiveness  compliance
Committee; the Chinese Review Commission; and the
International Advisory Panel.



- 25 -
8. Staff hiput (staff/weeks)
hem         1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  Toad
Preappraial   6.0   16.2   17.1      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -   39.3
Appraird       -    5.6   62.1       -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -   67.7
Negofistioa    -       -      -    7.7       -      -      -      -       -    7.7
Superviion     -       -      -    7.3   11.4    4.2    9.3    5.5    7.2    9.0    6.6         -      -   60.5
PCR            -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -    1.5    2.0    2.0    5.5
Odiar          -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -
TOW       6.0   21.8   79.2   15.0   11.4    4 2       _     S.S    7.2    9.0    8.1    2.0    2.0  180.7
9. IDA Missions
Sage of Project            Mooth/ Number of Number of  Number of   Performance rating
year     missions    peorons      days      and specialization      Type of problem
Idenfificafion              1/83       2           2          20       Ed spt
PrapRai                    9/83         1          3           7       Ed ps, colmang.
Apprail                    2/84        1           4          26       Ed ap, tch ed, chem
-aed, eco/mng.          -
Podami-I                   6/84        2           3          12       Ed aps, tch ad          -
Sup-rvison                 3/85         1          2           7       Gen ed, tch ed          no major problems
11185       2           2          11       Geaed,tched              nomajorproblems
9/86        1          2          17       Ges e4 tch od            oo rjorp prbima
10186       1           1          21       econ                     no major problems
7/U         1          3          17        Gen ed, tch ed, r.econ    no major problems
7/89        1          1           4         enaed                  Evers of6ll9
3/90        1          2           9       gan ed, r. econ          no major problem
10190       1           2          22       gem ad, r. econ         no major prob_en.
4/91        1          2          20       gem ad, tch ad           no major proble
9/92        1          1           5       gmn ed                  pcr diwusuions






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26959
'50-   70;            '     o80'                       90                           0 o0,                                               120',.-"_                   130'                        1o0-
RUSSIAN                           --
\AZAKHSTAN                                         .?K...-..                        FEDERATION                  i
KAZAKHSTAN                              _                  2                                                                                                                    f                            , 
/                       S                                                                                                 --         Horbin         f\;,, 
MONGOLIA                                                                               -
i ! >- > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l rCongchun  -                                                                                           A  m~- 4V
~\.      KYRGYZ               Nt                    Uurns
K   REPUBLIC              J '
1_ M\ONNGOL -N    Snyang                                                         of        JAPAN
>TAJIKISTAN                                          -                                                                                                                                    R/. DEREJl. OOE
Hohh.rot    .SE/JINCS  Tun_F KOREA
..r--           .-       N                  r         j    v r    J HEBEI (2  TIA   \l SHI5                           REP OF O                             -
\ - \  \ ) lnhrin}| Tlycn  SIIch ng Z  _fn/el KC;REA'_- .
The boundarie-s colors. de\onninations                                                        -      jGANSU)   i o            /                                                     sbrliouhuoeo  .KOREA_ 
andony oher ifSormation sioon on                                                                                             s       T :iiot, u                                  S-e
Te mop do rat i cmply. on  Ire port of -h                                                                               r-xJ    S
or ha legal stanuaotony territory. o,r  <    "nnty;Lx -  -A-               SA                              ^ . '\   C',,  ~
any-end--serneat or onpor o ouch     o-'                                                          -                                                              a-  ' 3  zn
OINnHAl(                      L           J
-30 ~ ~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~                                                        ) _ e" _  
>~~                                                           ~        ~~~~ C  Chegd          jZhongahou4mNn                      Hesz5 .'
HENAZN   S                          - -           Est China
Hef6~~~~~e
~  .                  ~N                               '                  Hafe\j0             Shanghai
NEPAL K,: P                                                            IHAN-1 (.                                            Nonchang            .
L  8                                           Chengshe                   '                                 ,h-g
(D                             SICHU\ AN,'                                                      uao~OCA
SECOND UNIVERSITY  <  >                  L            onr ho- ? J;ANG.---                                                 PACIFIC
A           1  -                  ~~~~~~~~~HUN,;N                Fzo-OCEAN
CHINA                                             '       \I/NAN
SECOND UNIVERSITY                                            j            r-  )  GUIZHOU                                ___
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                        Kg                                           CL,''C9s                        -            CYa-
A   \SUNNAN       k E      ~~~GUANGXI       /       G-sg h-'                    ~     ~      C1Ui                                   0
S  Prooinca Capitls  -  -   Procince Boundaries                           'NA                K          N-n-/g         /      Gnh                                        Sea
Natmanal Capital   -  -    International Boundanien           g                                      Nni L\SHONG KONG, U K.
z  L1.<!               VIET NAM '-a, Po.t.
KliOMETERS 0    200    400C    600    900                                                VIET
MILES 0    100   200   300   U00   500                     -70u    i)  LAO PEOPLE'S                        .PHILPPINES
-7 DEM.REP'''
THAILAND )              N                 HAINA.\3
4/21/1995   E TI3 i  234oabo









IMAGING
Report No:       14530
Type: PCR



