Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ajuif 2>423-B64
Report No. P-4394-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$122.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
September 25, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Cruzeiro(Cr$)/Cruzado(Cz$) 1,
US$1.00        X  Cr$8,891 21
US$1.00        -  Cz$13.80 TFebruary 28, 1986) 1/
Cz$1.00        a  US$0.072464 (February 28, 1986) 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS
CEPA-CE      - Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola-Ceara
(State Agricultural Planning Commission-Ceara)
NRDP         - Northeast Rural Development Program
POLONORDESTE - Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast)
RDC          - Rural Development Council
SAAB-CE      - Secretaria de Agricultura e Abastecimento do Estado do Ceara
(Ceara State Secretariat of Agriculture)
SEPLAN-CE    - Secretaria de Planejamento do Estado do Ceara
(Ceara State Secretariat of Planning)
SERTANEJO    - Programa Especial de Apoto do Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast)
SUDENE       - Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                   -  January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program  -  April 1 to March 31
Project                                -  April 1 to March 31
1/  A new currency unit, the Cruzado (Cz$), equal to 1,000 cruzeiros (the
former currency), was introduced on February 28, 1986, at the exchange
rate of US$1.00 = CzS13.80. The cruzeiro will continue to be legal
tender until  March 1, 1987, but began being devalued against the
Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45% on February 28, 1986, and will
continue to be devalued at that rate until it goes out of use.
2/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (November/December 1985).



FOR OFmFCLAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing            The Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA-CE) within
Agencies:            the Secretariat of Planning of the State of Ceara
(SEPLAN-CE).
Amount:              US$122.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:       Some 122,800 low-income families operating farms of up
to 100 ha in all municipalities of the State of
Ceara, except those urban municipalities of the capital
city, would directly benefit from the project.
Project              The proposed project is one of a series of projects
Description:        within the new Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDP). The project objectives are to: (a) increase
agricultural production and productivity in the State
of Ceara; (b) generate employment opportunities for
low-income rural families; (c) increase Ceara's
institutional capacity to provide efficient
agricultural services for small farmers; and (d)
promote water-resource development and technology
generation and diffusion to decrease small farmer
vulnerability to recurring droughts. It would support
water resource development for both agriculture and
domestic use, fish hatcheries, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, investment credit, marketing
services, funding for community subprojects and project
administration and training.
Risks:               Project risks include:  (a) possible inefficient
delivery of project services; (b) lack of sufficient
inter-institutional cooperation; (c) delays and
shortfalls in counterpart funding; (d) insecurity of
land tenure; and (e) recurring drought conditions. The
project has been designed to minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theirofficialduties. Its contents may not otherwfisebe disclosed without World Bank authoriziLtin. 



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local       Foreign       Total
-----US$ Million---  -
Water Resource Development                   12.9         3.8          16.7
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed
Production                                 6.4         0.6           7.0
Agricultural Extension                      51.3          3.0          54.3
Rural Investment Credit                     57.2        10.1          67.3
Marketing Services                            2.0        0.5            2.5
Support to Small Rural Communities          35.8         5.6          41.4
Project Administration and Training         23.1         0.8           23.9
Total Baseline Costs                     188.7        24.4         213.1
Physical Contingencies                        3.6         0.9           4.5
Price Contingencies                         34.2          2.5         36.7
Total Project Costs                      226.5        27.8         254.3 1/
Financing Plan:                                Local       Foreign       Total
---US$ Million-- -
Government                                 132.3         -            132.3
IBRD                                        94.2        27.8         122.0
TOTAL                                    226.5        27.8         254.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:  1987   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992   1993   1994   1995
--------------- US$ Million----…-
Annual        9.82/  10.3  16.5  18.4  20.8  19.4   15.8    6.4    4.6
Cumulative   9.8    20.1  36.6  55.0  75.8  95.2  111.0  117.4  122.0
Rate of Return:  13Z
Maps:             IBRD 18686, IBRD 19516, and IBRD 19653
1/ Including about US$10.9 million of local taxes.
2J Including initial deposit of US$5.0 million into the Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$122.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$122.0
million to help finance a Northeast Rural Development Project in Ceara.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) vas distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years. This
completed a major stage of the return to a fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and State representatives throughout Brazil.
In this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Mr. Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government. On Mr. Neves' death in April 1985, Vice-President Jose Sarney
became President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives
stated by Mr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New
Republic.
4.        Thit Sarney government is committed to a program of reform,
economic growth and inflation control, with a strong social and anti-
poverty orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89,
presented to Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives
including the gradual recovery of real wages and, among Government
programs, a concentration on improving health, nutrition and housing for
low-income Brazilians. Reform of the public sector is a strategic
objective. The Government intends to concentrate more on traditional"
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic infra-
structure, leaving directly productive activities increasingly for private
sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2% p.a., and a more rapid
increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an essential condition a
return to GDP growth of at least 6% a year. Three major stabilization aims
are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public sector deficit, renego-
tiation of the external debt, and the control of inflation.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% average annual growth In real
GDP in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a
significant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth
through policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for
industrial and agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import
barriers; investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for
imported oil; the expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign
borrowing. Between 1975 and 1980, Brazil's medium- and long-term debt more
than doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5 billion, with total
obligations of approximately US$70 billion, including short-term debt. The
efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974 created strong
internal pressures and increased inflation. The economy remained
vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases in oil prices
occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates increased, the
current account deficit more than doubled to US$12.4 billion.  Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of exter-
nal developments, including declining world coumdoity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified adjust-
ment program. In February 1983, the IMF approved Extended Fund Facility
and compensatory financing arrangements, for a total amount equivalent to
about US$5.4 billion for the 1983-85 period. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, for the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and
the commitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included
a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and
tight monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21% and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit
was reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,



-3-
very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP
fell by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the
industrial and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 122
during 1981-83 and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers. Much of the social progress made in the 1970s--when all income
groups gained from economic growth and the expansion of education, health,
housing and urban and rural development programs--was undermined by the
recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984, when GDP grew 4.5%.  Balance-of-
payments performance was again highly positive, aided by exchange rate
changes which fully accounted for domestic inflation and by the strong
growth of the US economy. An unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1
billion was generated, and Brazil's international reserve position mark.dly
improved. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall,
much of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current
US dollars, total exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the
comparable increase for industrial exports was 37%. In 1985, GDP growth
accelerated, reaching 8.3Z for the year. The recovery was led by industry,
though Investment spending remained low. Industrial employment increased
by 6%, and open unemployment declined significantly in the major urba-
centers. Externally, the trade surplus amounted to over US$12.4 billion,
the current account deficit was about 0.5% of GDP, and gross international
reserves remained at a level equivalent to about 8 months of imports.
Without new commercial bank borrowing in 1985, the country's external debt
was stable, at almost US$104 billion.
10.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from 1.6% of GDP in 1984 to
3.2X in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized industrial
sector, including partial quarterly adjustments of wages, resulted in real
wage gains, and Federal Government salaries were increased to compensate
for large previous declines. These policies contributed to inflation.
Prices rose 235% in 1985, in spite of temporary price restraints imposed by
the new Government earlier in the year.
11.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate
of inflation accelerated late in the year as regulated prices were
increased to compensate for price freezes in earlier months and as
businesses anticipated the effects of a drought in the South. By January
and February of 1986, monthly inflation was 16% and 14%, respectively. A
program to reduce inflation gradually was being implemented at that time.
Centered around a substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit, it involved
higher taxes and cuts in Federal Government and state enterprise
expenditure. Budgetary control was strengthened in January 1986 by the
unification of the fiscal and monetary budgets, transferring to the
Treasury the responsibility for programs previously financed by the Central
Bank and Bank of Brazil; the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a
second monetary authority; and the establishment of a National Treasury



-4-
Secretariat to centralize budget disbursements. A pruSram for
restructuring and selective privatization of state enterprises was
initiated. Alarmed by the spurt in inflation, the Government tightened
consumer credit and announced a plan to increase food imports to offset the
drought-related increase in agricultural prices. It soon decided, however,
that a more radical comprehensive program to stop inflation was needed.
Plano Cruzado
12.      On February 28, the Government initiated the Plano Cruzado, to
eliminate the rapid inflation which was threatening Brazilian economic
stability and prospects for sustained growth. The program seeks both to
eliminate the impact of past, indexed inflation and to change future
inflation expectations. It features a currency reform, with the new
cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros; a temporary price freeze on goods
and services; an exchange rate set at Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period
to be determined; wage adjustments to their average real value over the
previous 6 months, with annual adjustments thereafter, at least partly
indexed to inflation; the freezing for one year of rent and mortgage
payments; prohibition of indexation of financial contracts for periods of
less than a year, except for personal savings accounts; the conversion of
nominal cruzeiro contracts to appropriate cruzado values; the conversion of
indexed Government bonds to cruzados at the parity existing on February 28,
without any adjustment, at least for one year, in the nominal value of the
new bonds; and a number of measures intended to liberalize the financial
system. These sweeping financial reforms were accompanied by a continued
effort to reduce the fiscal deficit and to use monetary policy to stabilize
and, if possible, reduce real interest rates. A limited unemployment
insurance program was introduced.
13.       Initial results of the program were positive and popular support,
widespread. Consumer prices rose only by 3.4% in the March-June period,
while industrial wholesale prices declined by 2.8%. Economic activity,
after an initial pause, has continued to expand. GDP growth for 1986 is
expected to be about 7%. Investment indicators a:e increasing: capital
goods production was 26% higher in March-May than a year previously, while
machinery imports were 40% higher in the first half of 1986 than a year
ago. The trade surplus is running at an annual level of US$12.5 billion,
!ven with a 30% increase in non-oil imports during the first six months of
tho year. Although the exchange rate is temporarily fixed, the real
eftective exchange rate has not appreciated since February, helped by the
Continuing fall in the U.S. dollar.
I;:onomic Outlook
14.       Price stability is a priority objective of the Government.  The
Government's efforts to keep inflationary pressures from reemerging have
included keeping the public sector deficit under control, following a
prudent monetary policy, and using imports, as needed, to offset shortages
of key products while price controls are still in place. Initially, the
Government allowed a rapid, non-inflationary increase in the money supply,
following the adoption of the Cruzado Plan, to accommodate the public's



--5-
increased demand for money as inflationary expectations were reduced. By
July, it was clear that domestic demand was increasing too rapidly. Conse-
quently, the Government tightened monetary policy, and interest rates
increased substantially. By August, the nominal rate on Government securi-
ties was about 30% on an annualized basis, compared to 15% in March. Given
the large amount of domestic public debt, these higher interest rates might
make it difficult for the Government to achieve a fiscal deficit below last
year's level of 3.5% of GDP. Although the price freeze is being main-
tained, some items (including beef, milk, automobiles, and selected house-
hold items) have become scarce and unofficial premia are being charged in
some instances. There is clearly a need to gradually relax the price
freeze, in order to maintain public confidence in the Government's stabili-
zation program and longer-run growth plans. To decontrol prices without
causing a sharp acceleration of inflation, domestic demand would have to be
restrained further, the fiscal deficit reduced, and imports increased.
15.       Sustained ecuncrmic growth is also an important focus of the
Government's agenda. Its recently announced "Target Plan" for 1986-89
sets national economic targets and priorities for major productive, infra-
structure, and social sectors. A National Development Fund has been
established to provide the resources for a major increase in public and
private investment. In addition, the Government is undertaking structural
adjustments which should foster more efficient growth. Among the more
important changes are those included in the program of agricultural sector
reforms, which have as major objectives the liberalization of the markets
for key agricultural goods and the establishment of positive, floating
interest rates for agricultural credit; and in the ongoing financial
reforms, designed to improve banking efficiency, develop long-term
financial instruments to support investment, and improve control over
monetary policy.
16.       GDP growth of 6-7% per annum is needed to improve living
standards, and to generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum)
required to fit new entrants into the labor force and reabsorb gradually
those still affected by the recent recession. As the Government
recognizes, long-term growth of this magnitude requires continued success
in the implementation of the stabilization program, further efforts to
reduce the public sector deficit, and the maintainance of a sound exchange
rate policy. A focus on further export promotion, improved resource
allocation and productive efficiency, public sector reforms, and increased
savings and investment is also needed.
17.       The country's prospects depend on external factors outside the
control of Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social
policies pursued within the country. Recent developments, :ncluding the
decline in international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have
been positive for Brazil. A 1% drop in average interest rates means a
balance-of-payments gain of about USq80O million. The agreement reached in
July with commercial bank creditors reschedules 1985 maturities, rolls over
1986 maturities until early 1987, and reduces interest rates on this debt
from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over LIBOR. This agreement, which affects about 20%
of Brazil's variable rate debt, will reduce annual interest payments by
some US$140 million.  A reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices
means a net gain of over US$100 million a year.



- 6 -
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and
therefore on the international economy, market access, and its own trade
policies. However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in
recent years, including substantial export growth and recent efficient
import substitution in both industrial products and petroleum, should make
it feasible to continue to generate large trade surpluses for several
years, even with nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.
External Financing and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of annual GDP
growth between 6 and 7% in 1986-90, with additional foreign financing.
Brazil's net medium- and long-term financing requirements from
multilateral, bilateral, and commercial sources are projected to average
about US$2.8 billion annually in the period 1986-90. Of this amount,
approximately US$1.5 billion would be needed annuallv from commercial
sources. With these moderate levels of net new foreign borrowing, Brazil's
total medium- and long-term debt would grow at an annual rate of about 3.02
from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of international inflation, and
would thus decline in real terms.
20.       Brazil's creditworthiness indicators are expected to improve
substantially by the end of the decade. The medium- and long-term debt
service ratio is projected to fall from 77% of goods and non-factor service
exports in 1985, before the March rescheduling, to about 50% in 1990.
Similarly, the ratio of total external debt to exports, which amounted to
3.6 in 1985, is projected to decline to 2.4 by 1990. Nonetheless, debt
service payments will remain high. Interest payments alone would be
equivalent to 22% of exports in 1990, compared to 39% of exports in 1985.
Therefore, Brazil will either need to reschedule its commercial bank debt
further or seek much larger amounts of new gross borrowing. With
continuation of its adjustment program and of its sound balance-of-payments
performance, and an adequate but moderate flow of net new foreign
financing, Brazil's long-term prospects are good.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1986, the Bank had made 145 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$11,147.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1986 was
US$3,687.9 million. Debt outstanding and disbursed was US$5,042.0 million,
equivalent to 10% of the Bank's portfolio. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments.



-7-
22.       Over the FY77-85 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged
from US$425 million to about US$1,523 million per year. Eleven loans
totalling US$1,620.0 million were approved in FY86. They were: a small
towns improvement project in the amount of US$24.5 million; a Northeast
urban reconstruction project for US$100.0 million; an irrigation
engineering project for US$48.0 million; a metropolitan urban development
project for US$55.0 million; a second agricultural extension project for
US$155.0 million; a Northeast rural development project for US$92.0
million; an irrigation project for US$57.0 million; a Northeast health
project for $59.5 million; a public sector management project for US$29
million; a power sector project for US$500 million; and a credit and
marketing reform project for US$500 million. Work is advanced for an
industrial skills formation project; an urban transport project; a highways
project; an irrigation sector project; an investment finance project; and
several projects in the Northeast region, including the Itaparica
resettlement project and rural development and irrigation projects.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated at US$89 billion at the end of
1985. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 5.5% while its share
in total debt service is estimated at 3.9%.
24.       As of March 31, 1986, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,041.14 million, of which US$710.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$330.41 million, US$255.47 million
represent loans and US$74.94 million equity. A summary of IFC's
Investments as of March 31, 1986 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Sustained economic growth with social progress requires
substantial domestic adjustments. Stability and growth will depend on
tighter public sector expenditure and deficit control, increased savings
and investment, and a sound balance of payments. To reduce the fiscal
deficit, and to promote greater overall efficiency in the use of available
domestic and external resources, the Government will have to reduce its
participation in direct productive activities, while concentrating a
growing share of its total expenditures in the social sectors and in other
traditional Government services. The private sector, therefore, will have
an increasingly important role in the future growth of productivity and
production. In this policy framework, the Bank lending strategy is
designed to support the ongoing restructuring process, promote the
mobilization and effective use of resources, and contribute to the
attainment of social and regional development objectives to which high
priority is also attached by the Government.
26.       The Bank lending strategy is supported by an intensive economic
policy dialogue, through which the conclusions of the Bank's economic and
sector work are being taken into account by the Brazilian authorities. The
composition of the lending program has been decided jointly by the
Government and the Bank, also in support of the strategy summarized above.
Most of the proposed loans aim at supporting one or more of three key
objectives: (a) structural reforms in agriculture, industry and the



- e -
management of the public sector; (b) the rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure; and (c) the increase in productivity, and the
improvement in living corditions, of the rural and urban poor.
27.       Three projects, that were approved by the Executive Directors in
June 1986, address important aspects of the structural reform process, in
support of the first lending objective. The Public Sector Management Loan
is directed toward improving programming and monitoring within the
Government and developing capacity within the Planning Ministry to promote
the financial rehabilitation of state enterprises. An important aspect of
this loan is the annual exchange of views between the Bank and the
Government on the public investment program. The Power Sector
Rehabilitation Loan will deepen the process of rehabilitating an important
group of state enterprises. The four-year sector investment program
includes only high priority projects, and its associated financial plan
envisages the full financial rehabilitation of the sector during the
1986-89 period, with substantial annual increases in sector revenues,
beginning in 1987. Finally, the Credit and Marketing Reform Loan supports
an important reform program based upon a market-oriented shift in the
Government's agricultural policies. The major policy reforms are: (i) the
adoption of a new rural credit policy based on floating interest rates,
which will imply a substantial reduction of credit subsidies; and (ii) the
liberalization of trade of key agricultural products, including the removal
of controls on exports, imports, and prices, except in the case of extreme
price fluctuations.
28.       Taken together, the policies and decisions referred to in the
previous paragraph constitute a major step forward in the process of
structural reform of the Brazilian economy. These reforms are part of
Brazil's short- and medium-term economic program, which is now being
updated by the Government to take full account of the expected results of
the financial and stabilization policy decisions adopted since January and
February of this year. Subsequent operations in support of Brazil's
structural adjustment process are likely to be related, Inter alia, to the
ongoing reform of the country's financial system; to the increase in
efficiency and competitiveness of the agricultural and industrial sectors;
and to the power sector rehabilitation program.
29.       The second lending objective--rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure--will be pursued mainly through loans for power,
transportation, and water supply and sewerage, some of which are also aimed
at other key objectives. Of particular importance in this respect are the
planned operations for the power sector; these operations would support the
implementation of the Sector Rehabilitation Program that was prepared and
approved by the Government in connection with the FY86 Power Sector
Rehabilitation loan. Lending for transportation will be directed toward
the rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing transportation network
with expansion in areas where economic activity is outgrowing present
capacity. Future loans for water supply and sewerage will be mostly
directed to the Northeast Region.
30.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to



-9-
improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary education,
vocational training, agricultural research and extension, land reform,
integrated rural development, water supply, sewerage, and health are
already assisting the improvement of the living conditions, and the
increase in productivity of the Brazilian population, particularly the
rural and urban poor of the Northeast Region. Future lending in the health
sector will seek to extend coverage of basic health services in the North-
east, and to combat endemic diseases in the Northeast and the Northwest.
Continued lending for integrated rural development and irrigation projects
in the Northeast of Brazil will support the Government's objectives to
further alleviate poverty, by reducing the region's vulnerability to
drought, improving regional institutions, and broadening land ownership.
Further lending for urban development will address ways to improve urban
services and infrastructure, while simultaneously strengthening the
financial basis of municipalities, particularly in the Northeast Region,
with a view toward self-financing of investments and cost recovery. New
projects for water supply and sewerage will also foster these goals while
extending services to rural areas and to the low-income urban population.
Education lending will continue to strengthen financial and administrative
capacity while also increasing the contribution of education to the
development process, especially in the Northeast. Environmental and
resettlement issues associated with electric power investments in the
Northeast are being addressed in the Power Sector loan, approved in FY86,
and in a proposed Itaparica resettlement project.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
development prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources
from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions. Since
1976, 11 cofinancing operations for about US$570 million were arranged and
signed with private financial institutions. There have been no cofinancing
opportunities with commercial banks in the past four years, as the volume
and terms of commercial bank financing available to Brazil were determined
within the framework of debt rescheduling negotiations. In view, however,
of Brazil's current programs of structural adjustment, its recent progress
in restoring a sound balance-of-payments position, and its current efforts
to control inflation, the prospects for renewed voluntary lending from
commercial banks should be improving, although the likelihood of a future
multi-year rescheduling might pose some difficulties in this respect. In
this framework, the Bank's cofinancing instruments may well play a positive
role in assisting Brazil to regain its normal access to international
capital markets.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
32.       Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In
1970, agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active
population and 67% of total exports. In 1984, these figures were 13%, 30%



- 10 -
and 38%, respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was rapid expansion in
Brazil's agriculture (5% per annum); during the recession in the early
1980s, output and investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
33.       The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply
disparate rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual
crops. The most dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy
capital investment or high levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus,
tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane on large commercial farms in central and
southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates, and in some cases declines,
were recorded for such staple food crops as rice, maize, wheat, beans,
manioc and potatoes.
34.       These trends in agricultural output were reflected in
agricultural trade. In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports
depended heavily on soy products, orange juice, tobacco, cocoa and sugar.
Of total agricultural exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 15% were
accounted for by these five crops. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of
Brazil's US$9.43 billion of agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of
agricultui LL exports hardly grew at all, except in 1984, when coffee and
orange juice were aided by highly favorable price movements.
The Rural Northeast
35.       The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia,
the northern portion of Minas Gerais, and the island of Fernando do
Noronha, with a total area of over 1.5 million km2 (18% of the country's
total area). The Northeast has been the nation's foremost problem region
since the late 1800s.
36.       Drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land distribution, and
limited employment opportunities have resulted in high levels of poverty
and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated from
the region, partially in response to five years of severe drought (1979 to
1983). In 1980, the Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about
29% of the country's total), growing at 2.2% per annum with a population
density of 22.5 inhabitants per km2. Half the population lives in rural
areas and over 50% of the work force is engaged in agriculture. Land
ownership is highly concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70% of all farms)
occupy less than 6% of the farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all farms)
ozcupy more than 40% of the farm area. Rural incomes are very low. In
1980, over 80% of the rural population earned less than one minimum salary
(about US$675 annually, or 35% of the national average).
37.       The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sisal,
cassava, sugar and cotton) represent significant shares of national
production. The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture. The agreste, a transitional zone contiguous with
semi-arid areas, is dominated by mixed farming, as well as the raising of
cattle. The sparsely populated semi-arid sertao is the largest of the
subregions and the most vulnerable to periodic droughts.



- 11 -
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
38.       Until the 1950s, most Government interventions in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works, emergency programs and
incentives for export crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development
and the need for improved regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of
the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE
was originally responsible for coordination of public investment, drought
emergency measures and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new
private investment. Initiative for regional policy formulation was
transferred to various Federal agencies in the 1970s with SUDENE continuing
to play an important role in the coordination of federally funded special
rural programs.
39.       The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The
first was based on the integrated development of selected subregions. It
included the Bank-assisted Development Program for Integrated Areas of the
Northeast (POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the
Development of the Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), and the
Special Program of Support for Poor Populations of the Sugar Growing
Zones. The second approach was concerned with alleviating the effects of
drought. It included several parallel programs such as the Water Resources
Use Program, the Agricultural Research Program for the Semi-Arid Tropics,
and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal public
irrigation projects.
40.       Plknning for a major new development initiative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first
two approaches in alleviating rural poverty had been limited.  The new
initiative is to be implemented through e. series of sectoral projects in
such areas as and tenure, federal irrigation, health, education and
integrated rural development. The Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDB) is a 15-year program based upoti a comprehensive regional policy
framework, subsectcral strategy guidelines, multiyear state rural
investment plans and the integration of all rural special programs under
unified planning and iwplementation procedures.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
41.       The Bank has made 38 loans, totalling US$2,897.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; one credit and
marketing reform loan for US$500 million; supplemental financing for
US$30.5 million under the Special Action Program; three loans for
US$519.2 million, for agroindustries; two, for US$60.5 million, for
livestock; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage: two, for
US$100 million for agricultural research; two for US$255 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement;
and 24, totalling US$1,011.2 million, for various settlement, irrigation
and rural development projects in the Mortheastl/, in Ninas Gerais, and in
1/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast, Washington, D.C., 1983.



- 12 -
the North and Northwest. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Alto
Turi Land Settlement Project (Loan 853-BR) showed that the project raised
settler incomes beyond expectations, but was less successful in the areas
of environmental protection, community organization, and strengthening of
cooperatives. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Lower Sao
Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR) showed that, despite
implementation delays due to design changes and social tension in the area,
beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original estimates and small
farmers were capable of moving successfully from subsistence to commercial
agriculture.
42.        Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural
development projects located in eight Northeast states. Approved from 1976
to 1983, six of the projects are still being executed; the other four
have been substantially completed. Implementation has improved over the
years, especially in project planning and agency coordination. All
projects have experienced implementation and disbursement delays, mainly
because of the unusually severe and prolonged 1979-B3 drought, delays in
providing local funds, limited execution capacity for carrying out
small-scale irrigation activities and initial lags in the generation of
drought-resistant technology for small farmers. These problems were
addressed during the preparation of the NRDP.
The State of Ceara
43.        Location and Natural Features.  With a total area of about
148,000 km', Ceara is the fourth largest state in the Northeast (Map IBRD
19516). Average annual rainfall ranges from about 1,600 mm in the
highlands (serras) to about 660 mm in the drought-prone semi-arid zone
(sertao) (para. 37), which covers half of the State's land area. The wide
range of soil types found in the State may be classified from fertile in
the southern region, in several humid highland areas and a few river
valleys, to relatively infertile in the coastal region.
44.       Economic and Social Conditions.  Some 53% of the total population
of about 5.3 million live in small towns and cities. Agriculture is the
main economic activity; it employs about 56% of the State's labor force and
accounts for 27% of the State GDP. Fortaleza, the capital city, has a
population of over one million and accounts for the bulk of the State's
light industry. Average per capita income in the rural areas is one of the
lowest in the Northeast. As in other rural areas of the Northeast,
malnutrition, high infant mortality, and a relatively high degree of
illiteracy are major socioeconomic problems.
45.       Land Use, Tenure and Production.  Some 60% of a total of about
304,000 rural producers are non-owners. Holdings of less than 100 ha (91%
of the total) are currently producing, on about 32% of the arable laud,
about 60Z of the basic foods and 50% of the raw materials for
agroindustries. Cotton, fruits, beef and milk, beans, maize, sugarcane and
cassava are presently the State's most important agricultural products.
In part because Ceara was one of the areas worst hit by the 1979-83
drought, the performance of the agricultural sector during the last decade
has been generally weak.



- 13 -
46.       Ag:ricultural Services.  The Agricultural Planning Commission
(CEPA-CE) of the State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN-CE) is responsible
for the administration of the POLONORDESTE program, while the State
Secretariat of Agriculture (SAAB-CE) has been responsible for the SERTANEJO
program. Through these programs a number of Government agencies have been
or are currently providing services to support rural development. The
State Agricultural Research Company operates eight research stations.
Agricultural extension is provided by the State Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension Company. Four major banks (the Bank of Brazil, the Bank of
Northeast Brazil, the National Bank for Cooperative Credit and the State
Bank of Ceara) providte credit to farmers through a generally adequate
branch network.  The Federal Food Company is active in food wholesaling and
retailing in rural and urban areas. The State Organization of Cooperatives
and the Ceara Agricultural Development Company provide input supply
services throughout the State. Public marketing is handled by the Ceara
State Food Supply Centers. Finally, cadastral activities are entrusted to
the State Land Institute.
47.        Rural Development.  To date, most investments in Ceara's rural
areas have been federally funded through the POLONORDESTE Program, the
SERTANEJO Program, the Water Resources Use Program (para. 39) and the
Northeast Irrigation Program executed by the National Department for Works
Against Droughts. The Bank has supported rural development through two
POLONORDESTE projects: the Ibiapaba Rural Development Project (Loan
1488-BR of US$11 million), and the Second Ceara Rural Development Project
(Loan 1924-BR of US$56 million), which became effective in March 1977 and
July 1981, respectively. The Ibiapaba Project, after five years of
implementation and mixed achievements, was reformulated in June 1982 and
the closing date extended for three years until December 31, 1985. The
implementation of this project has now been completed. The implementation
of the Second Ceara Rural Development Project, which covers nearly the
whole State (120 municipalities), was hampered by severe drought during the
first four years, and has been affected also by delays in counterpart
funding. Because of these delays, it is likely that the loan closing date
will have to be extended by at least one year to meet essential project
targets. The proposed project has been designed such that actions under
the new project in areas already covered by the ongoing Second Ceara Rural
Development Project would be limited to new components not financed under
the ongoing project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
48.       The NRDP presents a new opportunity for the Bank to support
poverty alleviation and institution-building objectives in the Northeast of
Brazil. Common problems detected in the ongoing projects (paras. 42 and
47), skewed patterns of land ownership, and the experience gained by SUDENE
and state institutions convinced both the Government and the Bank that a
unified regional and sectoral approach was needed.



- 14 -
49.       In August 1982 the Government asked t'.e Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP, which will eventually consist of ten projects. In
April 1985, as part of this Program, the Bank approved the Northeast Rural
Development I and II Projects (Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR) for the States of
Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte. In addition to supporting the Sergipe
Rural Development Plan, the first project established the structure and
operating procedures for regional program planning, coordination and
research to support all ten Northeast State rural development plans. In
June 1985, the Bank approved the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project (Loan 2593-BR), which finances cadastral activities in all ten
Northeastern States. A Northeast Rural Development Project for the State
of Pernambuco was approved in June 1986 (Loan 2718-BR). Projects for the
States of Bahia and Piaui are being submitted for Board approval concur-
rently with the proposed project. A project for the State of Maranhao has
already been appraised, and projects for the three remaining States
(Alagoas, Paraiba, and Minas Gerais) are being prepared for Bank appraisal.
50.       The project was appraised by the Bank in November/December 1985,
and negotiations took place in Washington in July 1986. The Brazilian
delegation was led by Ms. Stael Martina Baltar of the Federal Ministry of
Planning. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6135-BR) is being distributed
separately. Annex III provides other key project data.
Project Area
51.       As a follow-up to the ongoing POLONORDESTE project (Loan
1924-BR), the proposed project would encompass the State except for the
six urban municipalities of the capital city of Fortaleza. However, since
secure tenure of land is essential for sustained rural development, the 69
mnicipalities selected to benefit from the cadastral activities financed
under the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR)
would be considered as high priority areas for intensive action; the
remaining 75 municipalities would receive more limited support.
Project Objectives and Description
52.       The main objectives of the proposed proiect would be to:
(a) increase agricultural production and productivity in the State;
(b) generate employment opportunities for low-income farm families;
(c) increase Ceara's capacity to provide efficient agricultural services to
its small farmers; and (d) promote water resource development and
technology generation and diffusion to decrease small farmer vulnerability
to recurring droughts. The project would benefit an estimated 122,800
low-income farm families, mostly without secure land tenure. The project
components are described briefly below.
53.       Water Resource Development.  This component would include:
(a) construction of four medium-sized state-managed irrigation schemes
totalling 1834 ha of irrigated land and benefiting about 975 farm families;
(b) studies to support the development of the State's irrigation plan and
the preparation of irrigation projects (6300 ha) for implementation under a
subsequent stage of the NRDP; (c) construction or rehabilitation of 400
simple water-supply systems benefiting a total of 32,000 families in small



-- 15 -
rural communities; (d) strengthening of SAAB-CE's Water Resource
Department; and Ce) construction or expansion of three fish hatcheries to
reach, at full development, an annual production of 10 million
fingerlings. In addition, individual private irrigation schemes covering
about 3,400 ha would be financed under the rural investment credit
component (para. 56). The State Government has provided assurances that,
within six months of loan signature, it would (i) define, with SUDENE's
assistance and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the internal structure
of SAAB-CE's Water Resource Department and its staffing requirements and
staff profiles; and (ii) put the preceeding organizational improvements
into effect.
54.       Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Product±e..  Research would
be directed towards simple technology to make farmiing systems more
productive and resistant to possibly adverse climatic conditions and would
include: (a) four agroecological and natural resource studies to assist in
future research planning; (b) 84 short- and medium-term applied research
trials at experiment stations to improve production technology; (c) 36
farm-level observation units to test and adapt Integrated farm production
technology; and (d) basic seed and nursery stock production on a total of
about 630 ha.
55.       Agricultural Extension.  This component would include:
(a) construction and equipping of 55 district offices; (b) establishment
and maintenance of up to 410 demonstration plots and farms annually;
(c) salaries and recurrent costs for about 552 agricultural and social
extension agents, about 80 subject-matter specialists and supervisory
personnel and 214 administrative staff; and (d) production of about 4
million seedlings for social reforestation.
56.       Rural Credit.  The project would finance medium- and
long-term credit for on-farm investments for approximately 37,600 farmers
(31Z of the 122,800 direct beneficiaries). A greater number would receive
short-term production credit to be financed by the participating banks
(para. 46). Farmers would contribute their labor to on-farm investments;
however, because of farmers' limited savings after the drought, financing
would cover up to 100% of the cost of goods required for on-farm
investments, with a maximum repayment period of twelve years and a maximum
grace period of three years. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes
larger than 4 ha, and automobiles would not be eligible. Financing would
not exceed ceilings established for the NRDP credit program in the Central
Bank's Manual for Rural Credit for individual farmers and, also, for
farmers' associations and cooperatives, provided that 70% of their members
are small farmers who would directly benefit from the investments (see
paras. 69 and 70).
57.       Marketing Services.  This component is designed to increase
farmers' knowledge of marketing and prices, improve the timely provision,
storage and marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs, and help the
State expand its food wholesaling service in rural areas. To achieve
this, the project would include: (a) expanding the State-run marketing
information service; (b) establishing 20 storage and input supply
facilities at the cooperative level; (c) establishing five additional



- 16 -
posts to strengthen the crop purchasing network of the Ceara Agricultural
Development Company (para. 46); and (d) expanding the Federal Food
Company's (para. 46) food wholesaling service (Rede Somar) and improving
marketing services for locally produced vegetables.
58.       Support to Small Rural Communities.  The objectives of this
component are to help formal and informal groups of farmers participate in
the development of their communities. The component would include: (a)
creation of a community development (CD) fund of about US$34.4 million to
make grants for local subprojects; (b) purchase of vehicles and equipment;
and (c) training and recurrent costs for 46 community development agents.
CEPA-CE would be responsible for administering the fund and the State
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company (para. 46) for
implementing the component. Farmers' groups would identify, plan and
execute subprojects that would encompass economic activities or community
infrastructure and would include training for community leaders. Written
proposals explaining objectives, benefits, implementation methodology and
cost-sharing would be subject to Municipal Councils' approval. The State
Government has provided assurances that: (a) the CD fund would be
established and maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) no funds would be released prior to the signing of the agreement
between CEPA-CE and the groups; and (c) no later than December 31, 1988,
the Bank and CEPA-CE would review the performance of the grants for
economic subprojects to establish the feasibility of carrying out further
funding of subprojects on a loan basis.
59.       Project Administration and Training.  CEPA-CE would be
responsible for administering, coordinating, and integrating all federally-
funded rural programs under the project. All project-related training
would be centrally coordinated by CEPA-CE. The project would strengthen
CEPA-CE's administrative capabilities by financing salaries of up to 222
higher level and related support staff, travel expenses, office equipment,
and other operating costs. CEPA-CE's current administrative organization
would be restructured to enable it to implement the proposed state-wide
project. The State Government has provided assurances that CEPA-CE would
be reorganized, staffed and maintained under conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Land Tenure Improvement
60.       Land regularization and redistribution in the 63 priority
municipalities selected for intensive action would result from the
cadastral activities initiated under the ongoing rural development project
(Loan 1924-BR) and expanded under the regional land project (Loan 2593-BR).
Redistribution targets, procedures for land acquisition, allotment and
selection of beneficiaries were agreed upon as conditions for the regional
land project. The Federal and State Governments have provided assurances
that in the project priority areas: (a) at least 212,000 ha would be
available for redistribution to project beneficiaries by March 31, 1988;
and (b) at least an additional 330,000 ha would be available by March 31,
1990.



- 17 -
Project Organization and Implementation
61.       Federal and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission,
chaired by the Secratary-General of the Ministry of the Interior and
comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Land
Reform, and Agriculture and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall
policy planning responsibility for the NRDP. As regional coordinator of
the NRDP, SUDENE's Directorate for the Program of Support to Small Farmers
would be receiving policy backing from a regional Rural Development
Council (RDC) which now is being established, which would include
representatives of all ten Northeastern states.
62.       State and Local Levels.  A State Rural Development Council,
chaired by the Governor, with the Secretary of Planning as Executive
Secretary and with up to two other State Secretaries as members, would
provide overall guidance for project-supported rural development
activities. A State Coordinating Commission, composed of CEPA-CE's
Executive Secretary and representatives of all executing agencies operating
within the project, would ensure proper implementation of the State Rural
Development Council's guidelines and integration of project activities.
Day-to-day project implementation would be carried out by CEPA-CE. It
would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the Bank be provided with
evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing, and administration of all
federally-funded rural special programs in Ceara had been unified under the
coordination of CEPA-CE.
63.        Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the project implementation
period. Once the Federal Government establishes overall funding
availability for the NRDP for the next year, state allocations would be
established by SUDENE in consultation with the regional Rural Development
Council (para. 61). CEPA-CE's Planning Division would consolidate each
executing agency's detailed annual operating plan, ensure internal
consistency and then submit them to the State Rural Development Council and
SUDENE for approval. SUDENE would consolidate state plans into a regional
operating plan, to be presented to the Interministerial Commission (para.
61) as the basis for the administrative regulation (portaria) signed by the
various Ministers involved, and legally establishing budget allocations for
each State. The Federal Government has provided assurances that: (a) the
regional operating plan would be sent each year to the Bank for comment
prior to approval; (b) the portaria, the final regional operating plan and
the State of Ceara's operating plan would be sent to the Bank no later than
April 1 of each year; and (c) agreed planning and budgeting procedures
would not be changed without the Bank's concurrence.
64.       Accounts and Auditing.  Each participating agency would maintain
its own separate accounts for project expenditures, to be audited annually
by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Federal and the State Governments
have provided assurances that: (a) project accounts would be maintained
according to practices satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of reference for
the auditors would include verification of the Statements of Expenditure
and the Special Account (para. 73); and Cc) copies of the audit report
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal
year.



- 18 -
65.       Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered into between: (a) CEPA-CE and the
federal agencies involved; (b) executing agencies, with the participation
of CEPA-CE when more than one is involved in executing a project component;
and (c) CEPA-CE or an executing agency and the concerned municipality or
group prior to implementing a community subproject. These agreements would
include execution guidelines and targets, reporting requirements,
procedures for inter-agency collaboration and funding conditions linked to
performance criteria. The Federal and State Governments have provided
assurances that they would enter into all necessary agreements not later
than six months after loan signing.
66.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation
arrangements have simplified reporting requirements and would aim at
providing accurate and timely information for project management and annual
planning. CEPA-CE's Rural Development Division would receive monthly
reports from executing agencies on key physical and financial indicators,
and would produce quarterly consolidated monitoring summaries. The State
Government has provided assurances that: (a) quarterly monitoring reports
would be sent to the Bank no later than three months after the end of the
respective fiscal quarter; (b) the Evaluation Unit of CEPA-CE's
Institutional Development Division would be fully staffed under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) terms of reference and institutional
arrangements for evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Cost
67.      Total project costs are estimated at US$254.3 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$27.8 million, or about 11% (see Loan and
Project Summary). The total cost is based on the assumption that all goods
and services would be acquired in Brazil, with the exception of some
specialized consultants' services. The cost estimate includes about
US$10.9 million equivalent in applicable local taxes. Physical and price
contingencies are equivalent to 2% and 17% of baseline costs, respectively.
Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs at 15% for irrigation
and water supply contruction; 10. for other construction; and 5% for
equipment, furniture and vehicles. Price contingencies were estimated in
US dollar terms, based on international inflation rates estimated at 7.2%
for 1986, 6.8% for 1987 and 1988, 7.0% for 1989, 7.1% for 1990 and 4.0%
thereafter. It was assumed that periodic currency adjustments, estimated
on a purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for differences
between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
68.       The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$122.0 million
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of
taxes. The proposed loan would finance 100% of foreign excnange costs and
41.5% of local costs. The loan would be repayable over 15 years, including
3 years of grace, and would bear tnterest at the Bank's standard variable
rate. The loan would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil, which
would carry the foreign-exchange risk and provide counterpart funds as
necessary to complete the project. Funding procedures would be those



- 19 -
described in pars. 63. Funds would be channeled from the Treasury through
the Ministry of the Interior and SUDENE to either a specific project
account in the State for activities executed by state agencies or directly
to Federal executing agencies. Monthly advances of Government counterpart
funds would also be made through the Central Bank to cover the estimated
Bank share of monthly expenditures. The Federal Government has provided
assurances that the administrative regulation (portaria) establishing these
funding procedures, once approved by the Bank (para. 63), would not be
changed without Bank approval. The Government, moreover, took additional
decisions in August 1986 to ensure the timely availability of counterpart
funds. These decisions include the provision in the annual Federal Budget
of the full amount required for the execution of all the Northeast Rural
Development projects; the monthly release of these resources in accordance
with schedules and amounts agreed upon with the Bank; and the
simplification of procedures for channelling the released funds to the
project executing units.
On-Lending Terms
69.       Proceeds of the loan would be made available, on a grant basis,
to participating federal agencies and the State of Ceara. In the case of
agricultural credit, the Central Bank would rediscount the subloans
disbursed by the participating banks. Following the financial and monetary
reform of February 28, 1986, the Government decided, in May 1986, to adopt
a new interest rate policy for rural credit. This policy--which is part of
the policy framework for the Credit and Marketing Reform Project (paras. 22
and 27)--aims at maintaining interest rates that would be positive in real
terms and would fluctuate according to market condition.i. Another
important policy objective is to reduce credit subsidies substantially.
There would be a general agricultural interest rate, applicable to rural
investment credit operations outside the North and Northeast regions, equal
to the rate on commercial banks' certificates of deposit (Certificados de
Deposito Bancario, CDBs) minus 10 percentage points. This rate would be
adjusted every six months, on March 1st and September 1st of each year, to
a level 10 percentage points below the CDB rate prevailing then. For
short-term credit, the interest rate would be initially set at the level
prevailing for investment credit at the time of signing the contract and
would remain fixed for the term of the loan. Until February 28, 1987, the
general rate has been fixed at 10, and it is expected that, in subsequent
periods, the rate will fluctuate near 10% in real terms. The interest
rates for investment and short-term credit to be applied to the small
Northeast farmers who would benefit from the proposed project would be:
2 percentage points below the general rate, for investments in sugarcane,
cocoa, coffee and rubber; 3 percentage points below the general rate, for
investments in irrigation, which would be changed to 2.5 percentage points
below the general rate in 1987, and to 2 percentage points below in 19B8
and thereafter; and 30% of the general rate, for other investments. These
rates represent a substantial improvement over the ones prevailing until
last February.
70.      The Federal Government has provided assurances that:  (a) the
Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the participating banks to
carry out the project's investment credit component; (b) the Central Bank



- 20 -
and the other participating banks would carry out this component in
accordance with the lending terms and conditions set forth in paras. 56 and
69 above; (c) each of the participating banks would provide monthly
information to SUDENE and CEPA-CE on investment credit availability,
demand, and lending per bank agency; and (d) priority would be given by the
participating banks to allocations of short-term production credit to their
agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to finance the
working-capital requirements of project beneficiaries. The new rural
interest policy referred to in para. 69 has provided the basis for an
amendment to the original agreement between the Bank and the Government on
rural interest rates (negotiated in February 1983), in connection with the
Agricultural Credit and Export Project (Loan 2348-BR). This amendment also
provides for an annual review of Brazil's agricultural credit policy by the
Bank and the Government.
Procurement
71.       Civil w6rks, estimated at US$17.1 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction
industry that is capable of carrying out project works. As individual
construction works are small and dispersed, foreign contractors are not
expected to be interested, but would not be excluded from bidding. Some
community development civil works (para. 58) would be carried out by the
beneficiaries under written agreements with CEPA-CE. Equipment, materials
and vehicles required by the project, totalling some US$9.2 million, would
be procured by the several executing agencies at various locations over the
project implementation period, in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Civil works contracts
estimated to cost more than US$250,000 and goods and services contracts for
more than US$100,000 would be subject to prior Bank review of procurement
documentation (about 70% and 40% of the value of civil works, and goods and
services, respectively). Consultants' services for special studies,
totalling some 20 man-years equivalent, would be procured in accordance
with Bank guidelines. The Federal and State Governments have provided
assurances that they would follow the procurement arrangements outlined
above and summarized in the following table:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Type of                              Procurement Method
Project Expenditure           LCB        Other         N.A.       Total Cost
Civil Works                17.1( 9.7)                             17.1 (  9.7)
Equipment, Vehicles
and Furniture             9.2( 2.7)                              9.2 (  2.7)
Studies and Training                    8.2(3.4)                   8.2 (  3.4)
Rural Investment Credit                            67.3( 47.1)   67.3 ( 47.1)
Community Subprojects                               34.4( 25.0)   34.4 ( 25.0)
Salaries and Allowances                            87.2( 25.1)   87.2 ( 25.1)
Other Operating Expenses                            30.9(  9.0)   30.9 (  9.0)
Total                    26.3(12.4)  8.2(3.4)  219.8(106.2)  254.3 (122.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the estimated respective amounts to be
financed by the Bank.



- 21 -
Disbursements
72.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout
the eight-and-one-hali-year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against
project expenditures made for water resource development, credit and
support to small commmunities, and at a rate of 502 against expenditures
made for marketing. Disbursements for the remaining components, which have
a high share of recurrent costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project
expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$1.1 million for agricultural
research, US$11.9 million for extension and US$3.4 million for
administration and training have been disbursed. Thereafter, disbursements
for those categories would be made at a rate of 30% of project expenditures
until an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million for agricultural research,
US$15.1 million for extension and US$7.1 million for administration and
training have been disbursed; the remaining funds for these categories
would be disbursed at 10% of expenditures. To enable project executing
agencies to prepare for an early start of project execution, project
expenditures (except agricultural credit) incurred prior to loan signing,
but after December 5, 1985 (end of project appraisal), would be eligible
for reimbursement up to US$3.0 million equivalent. No disbursements,
however, would be made for the domestic water supply, extension, research,
and administration components in the 112 municipalities of the ongoing
project until funds allocated for those components under Loan 1924-BR have
been fully committed (para. 47). Disbursement projections reflect the
disbursement profile for previous rural development projects in Brazil.
73.        Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical
assistance expenses under US$250,000 would be made under Statements of
Expenditure prepared by the various executing agencies and certified by
CEPA-CE. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank, but
would be made available for inspection during project supervision.
Standard documentation for contracts exceeding US$250,000 would be submit-
ted to the Bank. To reduce Government prefinancing requirements, a Special
Account would be opened and thereafter maintained in the Central Bank with
an initial deposit equivalent to US$5.0 million. Withdrawals in cruzados
from the Special Account, supported by Statements of Expenditure and other
required documentation, would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed
on the date of the expenditure. Receipt by the Bank of proof of acquisi-
tion of the land required for the irrigation schemes and Bank approval of
detailed engineering designs1 resettlement plans, and operation and main-
tenance standards, would be conditions of disbursement of any loan proceeds
allocated to finance the construction of public irrigation schemes. Any
loan proceeds so allocated which by June 30, 1988, were not committed to a
specific public irrigation scheme approved by the Bank would be cancelled.
Project Benefits and Justification
74.        Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The impact of the
project on agricultural production would result from increased productivity
and the expansion of the cropped area. The annual value of incremental
marketable production at full development is expected to be US$64 million,
at December 1985 farugate prices. Approximately 80% of this amount would
come from crops and 20% from livestock. This is not expected to lead to



- 22 -
marketing constraints as Ceara's present production does not meet demand.
Production surpluses would be marketed through existing channels. Improved
marketing facilities, water supply systems and community activities would
also provide substantial benefits to the population, especially to women.
Expanded agricultural activities would create jobs equivalent to some
81,000 man-years annually. Improved farming practices and soil
conservation would have a beneficial impact on the environment. Estimated
financial rates of return for the nine illustrative farm models range from
11 to 40%. All project beneficiaries belong to the poverty target group.
Net annual farm incomes, which, taking into account supplemental income
from off-farm work, currently vary between US$65 and US$320 per capita,
would increase, at full development, to a range of US$220 to US$430, in
constant terms.
75.       Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact.  Although it is not Government
policy to obtain full cost recovery on rural programs for low-income
families, current legislation allows SAAB-CE to recover 100% of operation
and maintenance costs and public investments in common irrigation and
drainage infrastructure over a 50-year 2eriod. The initial investment is
revalued but without charging interest.-/  The municipalities would cover
the costs of operation and maintenance of the water supply services until
the Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program begins in 1988; at
that stage, consumers would be expected to pay for the service. The State
Government has provided assurances that: (a) cost recovery provisions for
public irrigation schemes would be implemented in accordance with
Government legislation that is satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) drinking
water supply charges covering full operation and maintenance costs would
begin to be charged to consumers in 1988.
76.       Additional recurrent costs to the Government of about US$6.0
million per annum to sustain the project following the investment period
would be offset by additional fiscal revenues of about US$9.0 million
annually generated by the value added tax on product circulation that would
apply to the incremental marketable production.
77.       Economic Analysis.  The economic rate of return for the project
has been estimated at 13%. Sensitivity tests show that when project
benefits fall by 17% or project costs rise by over 21% the rate of return
falls below the estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three
years in achieving project benefits, such as might occur during a severe
drought, would result in a 10% rate of return.
Project Risks
78.       Although projects under the NRDP are simpler in design than
previous rural development projects, efficient delivery of project services
and interinstitutional cooperation would still be important for project
success. The project includes an improved monitoring and evaluation
2/ For further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects, see
Brazil: Upoer and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project, Staff
Appraisal Report (Report No. 5975-BR), dated May 12, 1986.



- 23 -
component to foster a more efficient institutional environment. Delays and
shortfalls in counterpart funding and rural credit could decrease the pro-
posed project's impact. Recent changes in funding procedures, the merging
of the rural special programs, the regional scope of the Northeast Rural
Development Program, of which the project is part, and the broad support
which the program enjoys among Government and local leaders, should help
the project to receive adequate funding. At the farm level, the security
of land tenure is still a problem; implementation of the Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and of the Government's
agrarian reform should help minimize this risk. Many farmers still face
recurring drought conditions. Decreasing these risks has influenced
project design by increasing the focus on water resource development and
small farmer technology generation and diffusion.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 25, 1986



-24 -                                ANNEX I
page I of 7
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
BRAZIL
Referance Groups (MRE)
Moat
Recent    Mid-incoma    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate        LAC           Europa
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)   8512.0       8512.0      1512.0
Agricultural (% of total)          21.1        24.6       21.0
GMP PER CAPITA (US;)                                       1720.0     1782.8      1973.6
POPULATION AMD VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)        84292.1   102982.1   132580.1
Urban.pop. (% of total)            50.4        59.3       71.7        68.9        48.4
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                        2.5         2.3         2.3         1.6
Urban                                        4.7         4.0         3.6         3.7
Lire expect. at birth (yrs)        56.9       60.0        64.1        6556        67.9
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (miii)                                    1711.6
Stationary pop. (mill)                                 292.9
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land               46.9       49.3        55.5        53.5       149.1
Pop. aga structure (%):
0-14 yrs                         44.0       42.7        37.5        38.7        31.3
15-64 yrs                       53.1        54.1        58.4        57.1       61.5
65 and above                      2.9        3.2         4.1         4.3         7.2
Crude birth rate (per thou)        39.3       33.4        29.6        30.1        23.0
Crude death rate (par thou)        11.0         9.5        1.0         7.7         8.6
Total fertility rate                5.8         4.7        3.7         3.9         3.0
Infant mort, rate (per thou)    104.5         89.1        67.8        56.1        53.8
Child death rate (per thou)        15.4        11.0        5.5         4.3         5.0
Fanily planning:
Acceptors. annual (thou)                    147.9
Users (% of married women) lo 500                                   46.2
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 - 100)             85.6       90.6       114.6       105.2       101.8
Per capita supply of:
Calories (% of requirmnts)    100.6         102.9      106.0       109.3       129.5
Proteins (grams par day)        60.5        59.8        59.8        65.0        88.4
Pop. per physician (thou)           2.5        18         1.3 a       1.3         1.1
Pop. per nurse (thou)               1.5         1.1        1.2 b       1.2         0.9
Pop. par hospital bed (thou)        0.4        0.3         0.3 a       0.4         0.3
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                   55.0        71.0 a      66.3        76.5
Urban                  78.0        80.0 a      77.0        95.1
Rural                  28.0        51.0 a      44.8        62.6
Population Growth             Infant Mortality       Primary School Enrollment
101 1½I2
1945-73 1373-84        1310 1965 19,0 1975 1980     13g0 165s 1170 1075 1100
s BRlAZIL                                     *  BRAZIL
m rntsr rtr GRoup                             a  FIRST REr a*oup



-25 -                                 ANNEX I
page 2 of 7
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
BRAZIL
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate        LAC          Europe
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thOU)       26505.6    32280.6    44259.1
Female (%)                       18.8       21.0        24.0        23.9       36.6
Agriculture C%)                 48.5        40.6        31.2 a      31.8       43.2
Industry (%)                    20.0        23.3        26.6 a     26.0        25.0
Participation rate (X):
Total                           31.4        31.3        33.4        32.3       42.9
Malt                            50.6        49.1        50.8        49.2       54.5
Female                           12.0       13.3        16.0        15.4       31.4
Age dependency ratio               0.9         0.8         0.7         0.8        0.6
HOUSING
Average sfze of household:
Total                                        4.8         4.2 a
Urban                              ..        4.6         4.i a
Rural                              ..        5.2         4.5 a
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                              ..       55.6        67.4 a
Urban                             ..        79.1        88.5 a
Rural                             ..        12.5        20.6 a
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                 108.0        82.0       t02.0       107.3      tOB.9
Male                  109.0        82.0       106.0      109.7       111.0
Female                108.0        82.0       99.0       105.8       106.6
Secondary: Total                 16.0       17.0        42.0 a     49.1        55.5
Male                 16.0        16.0       31.0 a      44.5        60.2
Female               16.0        18.0       36.0 a      46.7        50.6
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                         28.2        22.2        26.0        29.8       24.7
Secondary                        14.9       10.4        15.7        16.3       18.0
Pupils reaching grade 6 C%)         ..        33.2        39.3        55.2       95.4
INCONE. CONSUWTION, AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)           285.8       588.5       753.4      999.0      1176.4
Percentage of private Income
received by:
Highest 10% of households          ..
Highest 20%                     60.0 c      63.5
Lowest 20%                       3.8 c       3.2
Lowest 40%                       10.B c      9.0
Esz. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban
Rural                             ..          ..       150.0 d
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban                              ..
Rural
Passenger cars/thou pop.           13.5       29.8        44.7 a      45.8       93.3
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)         30.9        39.3          ,         94.9      141.4
EPO July 1986
,Nal available
Rots Group averaga are population weightad Country cowafage dapands on data avaliability and is not uniform. Unlea otherwise
noted. 19.5 nrefer to any year between 19U2 and 19U: 1973 batwaun 1970 and 197t; and most recent nimaote between 112 and 135.
a. 130. b. 191. c. 1960. d. 17.



-26 -                                  ANNEX I
Definitions of Social Indicators    Page 3 of 7
The definition of a particular social indicator may    InJinm (age 0-1) mortality rare - Number of infants
vary among countries or within one country over    per thousand live birtbs who die before reaching one
time. For instance, different countries define "urban  year of age, in a given year.
area" or "safe watcr' in different ways.          Child (age 1-4) mortality rare - Number of deaths
of children, age 1-4. per thousand children in the
AREA (thousand square kilometers)                 same age group in a given year. For mosl developing
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and  countries these data are derived from models using
inland waters.                                    information on infant mortality rates.
Agricultural (percentage of total) - Estimate of agn-  Family planning - acceptors. (thousands) - Annual
cultural area used for crops. pasturcs, market and  number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow. as percentage of  ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
total.                                            ning program.
Family planning - users (percentage of narried wom-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita esti-    en) - Percentage of married women of child-bearing
mates at current market prices, calculated by the  age who are practising, or whose husbands are
conversion method used for the World Bank Arlas.    practising, any forn of contraception. Women of
1986.                                             child-bearing age are generamly women aged 15-49,
although for some countries contraceptive usage is
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                   measured for another age group.
Total population - mid-year (millions)
Urban population (percentage of total) - Different    FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
countries follow different definitions of urban popu-    Index offoodproduction per capita (1974 - 76 = 100)
lation. Such differences may affect comparability of  - Index of per capita annual production of all food
data among countries.                             commodities. Production exdudes animal feed and
Population growth rate (percent) - total and urban -    seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-  mary commodities (for example. sugarcane instead
lions.                                            of sugar) which arc edible and which contain nu-
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Number of years a  trients (for exanple, tea and coffee are excluded).
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of  Commodities include nuts. fruits, pulses, cereals.
mortality for all people at the time of its birth were  vegetables, oil seeds, sugarcane and sugar beets.
to stay the same throughout its life.             livestock, and livestock products. Aggregate produc-
Populolion projections                            tion of each country is based on national average
Population in 2000 - The projection of population  producer price weights.
given total populaLion by age and sex, fcrtility arid  Per capita supply of calories (percentage of require-
the demographic parameters of mortality rates, and  ments) - Computed from energy equivalent of net
migration in the base year 1980. until Lhe population  food supplies available in country per capita per day.
reaches a stationary state.                       Available supplies comprise domestic production,
Starionary population - The projected population  imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net
lcvel when zero population growth is achieved: i.c.,    supplies exclude animal fced, seeds for use in agri-
the birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate,    culture, quantities used in food processing, and loss-
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is    es in distribution. Requirements were estimated for
zero.                                             1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Population density, agricultural land - Population per    (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
square kilometer (100 hecares) of agricultural area.    activity and health considering body weights, envi-
Population age structure (percent) - Children 0-14  rounmental temperature, age and sex distribution of
years, working age 15-64 years, and peoplc of 65  population.
years and over as percentages of population.      Per capita supply ofprotein (grams per day) - Protein
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand .  content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
population.                                       supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
Crude death rate - Annual deaths per thousand     all countries established by United States Depart-
population.                                       ment of Agriculture provide for minimum allow-
Totalfertility rate - The average number of children  ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
that would be born alive lo a woman during her    grams of animal and pulse protein. These standards
lifetime if during her childbearing years she were to    are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and
bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-    23 grams of animal protein as an average for the
ing age-specific fertility rates.                 world, as proposed by FAO.



-27-                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
Population per physician - Population divided by    group of individuals who share living quarters and
number of practising physicians qualified from a  nain meals. A boarder or lodger mity or may not be
medical school at university lcvd.                included in the household for statistical purposes.
Population per nursing person - Population divided    Percentag of dwellings with electricity - total, urban,
by number of practising graduate nurses, assistant    and rural - Conventional dwdlings with electricity in
nurses, practical nurscs and nursing auxiliaries,  living quartcrs as percentage or all dwellings.
Population per hospital bed- Population divided by
number of hospital beds available in public and pri-    EDUCATION
vate, general and speialized hospitals, and reha-    Enrollment Rates
bilitation centers. Hospitals arc establishments    Primary School Erollment - total, male andfemale
pernanently staffe  by at least one physician. Es-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
tablishments principally providing custodial care are    percentage of primary school-age children. While
not included.                                     many countries consider primary school age to be
Access to safe water (percentage ofpopudation) - total,   6-11 years, others have wider age groups. Differ-
urban, andrural- People (total, urban, and ruml) with    encrs in country practices in the ages and duration
reasonabic access to safe water supply (includes treat-    of school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontaminated    countries with universal education, gross enrollment
water such as that from springs, sanitary wells, and  may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
protected borcholes). In an urban srea a public foun-    ger or older than the country's standard primary-
tain or standpost located not more than 200 mcters    school ag
from a house may be considered within reasonable    Secondary School Enrollment - total mae and
access of that house. In rural areas reasonable access   female - Computed in a similar manner, but includes
would imply that members of the household do not    pupils enrolled in vocational, or teacher training
have to spend a disproportionate part of the day    secondary schools, for pupils usually of 12 to 17
fetching water. Absent and incomplete responses, and    years of age.
large variations between countries, may affect the  Pupil-teacher ratio -primary, andsecondari - Total
validity of the overall results of the country and    students enrolled in school divided by the total
regional comparisos. In addition, certain definitions    number of teachers.
and classifications such as urban and rural, reason-  Percentage pupilt reaching grade six - The percen-
able awcess to saf water in rural areas, safc water    tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting primary
sources (when they arc not subject to laboratory    school that persist into grade six.
control) vary considerably from country to country
and thus affect comparability of the data.       INCOME, CONSUMIION, AND POVERTY
LAiBOR FORCE                                     iEnergy consumption pEr capila (kilograms of oil equi-
TABOt labOR force (millions) - Economically active    valent) - Annual consumption of commercial pn-
persons, luding aorce(medfores)  ad uonempoyed buti  mary energy (coal and lignite, petroleum, natural
persons, incuding armcdorcesandunr,nploye but    gas, and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
excluding housewives and students. Definitions in    Pv   i      d .        I       (     i
vanous counes are notomparable.rivat.e income disrriburion - Income (both in cash
varous countres are not comparable.               and kind) accruing to percentile groups of house-
Femnale (percent) - Female labor force as a percen-
tage of total labor force.                        holds ranked by total housebold income.
Agriculture ipercent) - Labor formc in farning,    Passenger cars (per thousandpopulation) - Includes
foresty, hunting and fishing as a percentagc of total    motor cars seating fewer than eight persons; ex-
labor force.                                     cludes ambulances, hearses and military vehicles.
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining. construc-    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
tion, manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as    Average circulatioa of "daily general interest news-
a percentage of total labor force.                paper," defined as a periodical publication devoLed
Participation rate (percent) - total. male, andfemalE    piimarily to recording genral news. It is considered
- Participation rates are computed as the percntage    to be -daily' if it appears at least rour times a week.
of population of all ages in the labor force. These are    Estimated absolute poverty income level (US! per
based on International Labour Office (ILO) data onl    capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
the age-sex structure of the population.          level is that below which a niinimal nutritionally
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requimrments
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
15-64).                                          imate measures of poverty levels, and should be
interpreted with considerable caution.
HOUSING                                           Estiimaed population below absolute poverty income
Average size of household (persons per household) -    level (percent) - Percentages of urbar. and rural
total, urban. and rural - A household consists of a    populations who live in -absolute poverty."



=Pa5 of I
uATM - a -
Peplatlmn       114.4 till  Cad-1985)
ga  fr bltai  61.1630 (1985)
bet
to MIlle Mc                                                        Anmal GrCowt Hitt  (1)
Ojrnnt Itsc
IndIcator                    (19.')                              Actual                                                         Projcated
1975     1900     1961      1932        1983     1/                       1966      191 1     1988      19S9       19
ntraml Awmait
Gtma Dimttc Proct/            212,300          5.6      7.2      -1.6       0.9       -3.2      4.5            L3        6.6       7.5        7.5       7.5       7.5
Agricunl                     26.238          4.8      6.3       6.4      -2.5        2.2      4.3            e.s       2.0       4.5        6.5       4.5       4.5
Itistry                      62,792          5.9      7.9    -5.5         0.6       -6.8      5.9            9.0       8.5       9.1       9.1        9.1       9
9rdin                        103,86         10.3      7.3      -0.3       1.7       -1.5      3.0            1.J       6.5       7.1       7.1        7.1       7.1
OK&qittm                       165.511         8.4      1.5      9.2        3.3       -2.0      0.5            9.1       6.0       3.4       6.9        6.7       6.5
Cwo tmwb/b                       A834.817     -7.0      12.1   -15.9      -4.2       -17.1      1.0            b.3      23.5      2.4        12.4      12.2      12.0
Ewurts of GIMI                 29,39          12.4     22.7      ZD.      -8.4        13.6     249            -2.B      -1.5       6.0        5.0       5.8       6.5
prta f  GUNS                   17^865        -4.6       1.8   -13.4       -5.2      -17.Z       6.5          -2.5       25.7       5.7       11.9      10.5       9.9
GCnn N etial Sdi               23.818         -6.4      11.6   -16.6    -10.6         -3.4     22b            10.2      31.5      21.9       9.7       11.1      12.3
Prim
Mr liflAtor (19704100)                       I5        2.955    5844    11,4SO      23.26    90,541      294,71I
eEde  wae C.verneg.r5S)                         8.1    52.7      93.1     179.5      577.0  11846.9        6,3OO
Sme of GOP at hotet Prim. (2)                              Amrq  Anal Tm... Cl)
CAt Carent PrLm.)                                    (At OntCE  398 Prima)
3973       i        B _9fd     199vc                        1975-00   1916D45   190-0*
Cnm  bstirc PnAat                     1o.0      1o.0       10LO      lo.0                           6.5       1.7       7.4
grlcadrue                             9.2      11.0      11.5       9.8                            9.5       3.5       4.1
Jnty                                 31.1      2.E       29.8      32.2                            4.6       0.5       9.0
sdm                                  43.6      44.8      48.       48.0                            7.8       1.3       7.0
Onqtaimn                               76.6      81.3      78.6      73.5                            7.7       2.2       5.9
Giw lnuesratb                          2.3       Z1.1      16.4      25.0                            2.8      -6.2      16.5
Exports CIII7.5                                  0.8       12.5      11.0                            b.4       8.        4.8
iyt  0WS                               11.4      11.2       7.5       9.5                          -1.3      -9.5       11.7
Grom  ateml Savir                      32.3      16.1       6.8      23.8                           -1.6      -4.5      16.3
hA of 2 of CDP
(A Darerat Ow ro Pim)
Fubllc 19mm ((mitra Covenmn)                              1970     1975    1979   tW       3911 jf  B
Olsnut Penu                                               16.6      19.8    20.8     0.1    18.9    21.2
Gbram  bqqtendm                                           14.4      15.8    17.6    19.8 A   0.2    25.4
SurpIn (4) rDdlt C-)                                       2.2      4.0      3.2     0.3    -1.4    -4.2
Cqptal Expditure                                           2.6      3*       3.7     4.1     3.5     3.4
imxtqg (Niet)                                               .4    -0.2      0.5      3.9     4.9     7.6
tter bdiramor                     1975.00  19OD-   1985-0
08' (k.h RPte (Z)                   7.0      0.5      7.8
CiV Per Olpa Crnth Pate Cl)         3.0    -1.9       5.5
iet  (aq,tA,m Growt, Rate (2)    6.5         -       -
I103                               3.3       0.7     3.0
f%nal Sem  Rante                    0.0      0.5     0.4
bport E - tirity                  -0.2    -2A       1lb
/a At mrket  price;           are eV       a  at faetor ca ait vIi am add Ide tO ewlcsim of amt indiret     ad subsidie.
/b 1975-BO escw       are for Wm hamaart; ediates for aasoui yr        s wem fw fixed FIs        idth date  In .todms lirlad In amSunW i
7T  Pmjected yar at fmeat prima
7d Preldw.
-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ap 5 g



-29 -
-i4     ~            ~           ~           ~            -
MI
HUMI - ElDULt WI. Id
1S$  tllilu  a                                            Aanl raAl Pat. (2) - (at cautct 1970 Prlx)d
Qatr  Pril
Indicator                      (1995)                                 Actala                                                         Projected
1975     19gm      1981       1962        1983      199r       IIS5j     19H6       1917       19H        1989      190
hbnfil TOMe
lrdmlea t DV"                    25.637          23.9      21.2       9.9      -3.1        27.5      24.1         2.h       -1.5        6.0       5.0        5.8       6.1
PrmnriL/                        11,!99           30.7      MA        46.8     -10.3        14.3       3.8        24.1       -1.4       8.2        1.6        1.6       1.'.
Il Pmfturn/b                    13,638            0.0       2.5      40.6        7.4       435       2b.3       -15.4        1.4       4.5         5.9       7.3       8.1
hrddwls la bqa                   13.165          -11.0       1.4      -9.4     -20.3       -15.9      -2.2        -4.8      25.7         5.7       31.9     Il.5       9.9
mni &Om.rGCmdu                  1.597            8.2      11.2    -54.8       -1.2        -8.1      -2.0        -5.3      119.9      -45.0       7.         7.0       h.6
Paetolan                        5.654           -3.8      -9.8      -5.0      -2.6       -10.6    -13.7        -15.0        2.2       10.9       11.7      10.1      30.1
IKhnlzay si  squdput            2.494            9.B       6.4     -6.9      -32.2       -13.D       8.4        14.5       42.3       146        16.1      11.4      12.0
Wars                            3.450          -30.6      -2.2       3.8     -20.3       -J.3       20.9         2.9       13.1       12.1       9.4        9.2       8.4
PIn-
t t Prdc e inex                                     89       147        12B       114         97       I3   9S                I4         lo        114        122       131
7qtr Pdrimde b                                      71       125        138       152        143        1CD         99        84         91         98        U05       III
T1 of Td e inde                                    125       118         93         75        68        1m          98        123        117       116        316       118
tOqxitim aof rbddallse ?rde (2)                                  are Ansi LnrM (K)
(at amore Prime)                                          (at me  tur 1970 prlm)ld
3975       1982       115        1990                           1975-8D    198H-5    19O5-90
.bpxt                                   100.0      mo.        100.0      100.0                             5.8       11.0       4.5
PrizyP                                 62.7       44.8       46.8      4I0                               1.1        8.6        3.6
lumfncm/b                              37.3       55.2       53.2       5L0                             18.2/    23.2          5.5
lapS                                    1001.    1000         100.0      100.0                            -1.4       -2.7       12.5
Facd aid QN   tr Ioab                  9g         11.1       12.0       10.8                            17.5      -17.6        R.3
Petff la                               25.4       44.4       46.1       37.5                             4.3       -9.4       8.9
tdtney  mWd Ealtr                      26.5       15.4       19.2       28.3                            -7.5       -7.4       23.4
Oclus                                  38.3       29.1       26.7       26.4                            -i.9       -5.1       r0.5
Shm  of Truk with                      Share oF tnde with                    Sue of terde with Ctl
hsl.strlal (urries Cl) rdslprel                   w Guatrds C)                BKrrttqg Chamtte  (2)
mretcins of Tale                     1975      198      19B3    1984        1975      1980    1983      19B4       1975      198t    13    1994
Eb-                                70.2      57.3    58.7    63.           23.5     28.5    23.9    22.0          2.8      10.1      &H      8.6
hTa                                67.3      41.8    37.1    39.6          8.7       15.8    16.3    11.8        21.1      41.1    41.6    38.9
/a  Fr the peadl 1981-1990. Pri ry PwA3cts  mbrule sd-promsl  ,ad  plus imn -we.
7  hr thc  Pal  1975-19S0, _mfr±a    .in l  tl e            .
re Preiury.
7h Pmjecd iuort md eqxu   am et 1984 prim.
Agat 15. Lt9



- Ill -                                                      J~~~~~~~~~~~jr.rANE   I
PAIA4CS: orP 941191711  tlTP,U33.CArnTA;, 433  221)
(U35 Mi1llions at Current Pricon)
Poptmiilsn.  114.milli".  maid-1iWnI
CGNP Per Capital  3311.6410 (393))
1173         11160        3953         19623        3963          16114        I-W  ILt    liN           li           3tons         3969          lb91
Nq ot    rt  orsrs   am  Cool.   siIoic..    4b,102       312,1(4     .311,12       ,,14,713      -1j1)            34(1         121          2(1           1iii       -412          -721         -lIt
ftp.ro.ln ofusto                           R0,673r3 211312           21,261       20,171        21.6W        27,035       25.21Y       77,3110      Z9,183        11.11411     37.141       4I,*I16
Zumnriu ii Goods                           12,111)     322,13        22,1361      19,311%       11,419       II.916       11,1(1%      34,10.1      11,976        39.,347      22.R19       i.i2(1,4
Set Factor L..t..                          -2,11        -4.,421      -9,5112     -11,931    -20.121         -JiI,9l-     -306444       -9,6912      -1,1142     -30,361       -30.1411      3,1.
lii shieb  Initerest psYouht.           (2.11421,   ((1.318)    I(1,0111h)      (9,12(1)     (3.411)      (9,866)   (1.11%)          11.43131            11.727 )     (1.11 1,014)      1.,13
OIl (ILL? d,vbtI
Not1 Nia-Vector 6.rse.a,                   -1,429       -1,320       12,4a2       -1,2319       2.701        .4.743       3l.107       -2.017       -1,3115       -..921       -0,415       -1,17
lIot Trous...I..                                  31          12(1         351           .11)         206          173          214             0            ii           0            ii           'I
Chees1, AtChIlt Koligiep                    -64,09(    -32,416       -11,00V4      -14,117       -(.1.42          II I         276          2190          120        -132          -776         -ill
Ilirect Priasta lureutosor                       3(92       1,121        31.53          99            5.064      1,076          1ap           17          (12 al         1,360     1,242        1.411
KI6LT t,eo..  (11as)                          4,630         4,191        N,1133       1,4919       2,17    11 4,202           3,131.       3,4(8        2,211         3,111        1,111        1,1"0
Gross OhaI,ruouato                         £4,9612)   (11,111)    (161,11453    (11.9113)    130,901)        31,1311(     131.647       34,29        3,14         3(1,439      11,721       2*,111t
Amo.rsi.0flop.                             (2,1'l)      (4.4202      (7,191)      (1,40i43     (1.519)L.   7,463          113.11        3,11         21,294       13.1112      12.np1       11,124
trual IsI A. Le.s. Abrud 39.0)                 -390           -77         -073         -14 5Z                      64 12       U $33      -1,430       -,13         -2.130       -2,43%b      -7,?))'
'ill..  CapIraI (Iurladl,,g-.rr.
and3 es.I..  ssl                              -13        1,442        2,119         2, 111.    -3,963        .711,01      -1,12          -01(1         -p125        -712       -5,,A        -%9?
Chang. Is treat... 1- lIndsicate
ilberose.)                                  2.226        I,1]"         -649        41,11            24       -7.d21          4117        -%12          -*111     -1,104        -1,110       -3,237
li.t.reotlosal R6..uonp 1a                    1,71!        4,912         7,109        1,93         8,2(19      11,911        33,1.0       31.11.7      321(147      11a,544      14.1R11(      11,242,
(o  uhich g.ld)                                 24t       3.143          9011          hi5         2)7          493        1,0a1          l.a.         as..         i...           ....
lon.  ."'ith. of laps-fo  CORPS)            1.1          1.0           1.1          3.1          7.1          7.I           7,1          7,0         (1.1          1.9          1.1          1.2
Etot'run Cepltal sad DaI.t
Gr... IIul.brsue.tu                           4,932        33.221       14,041s      31,9(11      31,10.9       1(1,096      11.631       34,299       312,41       14.439        11,7721      11,21I
Offidot Gejnr                                -            -             -            -            ------
Cumeeoshsoal L-n                               1132         311           39          10-go                                               ---                                       
DIGb.                                        II?           34           27          13                                                                              
hon-Csacoootnaal l....                      4,610       13,296       l.,fllh       31,5111      I0,09        14,096       33,457       34,799        31,341       14.439       11,771       1h,111
Official Eapot Cradit.                      l11          (132         65            (2         3,069        .1,01        1,220        1,310        3,310        3,296         3,280        1,241
15R0                                        710          143          119          421         1,204L       1,291          1973       3.709        3.116        3,619I        1,610        1,621
Other P)shtilta.tI.                         2391          316         1113          113          211          214          31.9         1114          311i         311          304          423
Vrriet.                                  4,331 x      10.112       IA142        131,517       6,3751       11,228        9,360       31,1.2h      32,122       17,919        1I,20        12,994;
tutorialt Dust
Debt Oat.Landlsg aid DLiaharod             2311'I6      24i,499      1,611         11,1014       8,4713      97.011       69,079       90,171,       92,21(1      94ji3        19,901i    303,1-93
IahLr1lr/IbLcI1y Cs-r-oteud             11,121        111,64       44,011A      49,631       17,2I 19     (1(1,2       J19,079       1n,121       91,774       96411,13     J99,001     101,291
Private 50RCiar-atL-d                     9,1931      14,431       219,292      21,121       21,132        10,113      n.a.           ...,        ".A.         0.9.        M.a.           "4,.
Iid.alo,rsred Debt                          1,71.2      11.0211      12,443        34,122       31.917       31,721       11,1007      147.9i        14,121      31.1136       12,1(11      22,14)
13311 rtliul,snnonltotal. gr-..
e11s3.roe~a..t                   2.1           3.           2.4          4.2         IIfl          (1.0          1.5          6.1         go.11        312.         33.6          23.2
25110  lUbjtotol. 100                           4.7           1,7          1.1.         1.7          4.1.          1.2          1.1          n.2          7.0          11.0         6.1           9.a
1611  Debt asvcktldebt  ar-Us                    2.1           .           2.1          2.3          4.2           1.6          3,9          4.1          4.9           I7           4%.6         7.1
Thtm3 Serylca P4YWats lb                    3,613('     13,343       12.111        34671n       13,73M       20,179       39,1145      21,1370      23,720       23.604        21,1341      22,11.Z
lar.restlep                             (31.11427     4,111         7,91.6       11.124       31.473       9,968         11,131       11,211       3,177        9,701        4,1903       9.239
Poyoents us SZ Espoc. (GIltS)                   19.9        11I..         40n.4        71.2          4f          172.3         76.6         7,           1.4          62.1          14.2         10O.4
Goark1tnad Loas. (13 1.                           0.1         12.2         31.3          U12.         33.4         12.2          9.7          9.2           11.2         11.2         1.2           9.01
Offletid                                         0.0          9.3         301.6        30.9          10.1         11.2          ,.          ia           is,           1.,          44..5
Private Source                                   13.9        31.4         36.1         131.         33.4          22.1          ..          us            ..            ..          t..          05
Awerage Xtairity of N-e
Osrsotuatd Loan. (Your.) lc                      91.0          9,7          9.7          30.9          9,3          5.1.         9.9         13.6,         11.6         32.4         33.9         33.4
Official                                        36,4         32.1         32.4          3 3.1        12..9         9.6         0,.          a..          us.s.s..                   n.           54
Priaces Source                                   4.9          6.9          9.0         113.2         9,0           9.1         .s            ..          44.          04             ..          05
As S of Debt Gsntauod Img
7..pteoh.,r 30, 11161
IlOtunity Strocture Of fable~ Pub1t 0.totao56io
JIuturitin  due ,1thitl     years                                         (17.21
MotarWtes. do. ahlbi  10 Tsar.                                            112.61
laLerout Stnrucuce of Daht Ojtatutmd.X
Iflttttit dam  viShis  t-- first year                                   u
I. DOes not includ, gold ond .ollar valuation adjuatent.
7;b  irtemruo  mnd su,rti.ctiso ca mdiv.m.  louti ten  debt.
7Z Public Dbet only for 3921.
Id  Pruliuiory.
it  lUtorsucson -dim and   u-nudebt.
7F Includes Doly milrtioatt uctolly paid.
e..-N:avslahla.-                                                                                                                                             Asiout 3s. 1964



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATlUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SEIIARY STATERINT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan 1   Year           Borrower                   Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Seventy nine loans fully disbursed                                  3,672.7
1317     1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry          83.0        24.6
1452     1977  Brazil                           Education              32.0          .9
1488     1977  Brazil                           Rural Development      11.0         1.1
1537     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development      24.0        11.6
153B     1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 127.4        8.1
1568     1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension      100.0          .2
1589     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development      37.0        11.0
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water and Sewerage    100.0          .1
1714     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development      26.0        14.6
1720     1979  Brazil                           Urban Development      70.0        18.5
1721     1979  COPEL                            Power                 109.0       22.3
1728     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development      31.4         6.8
1729     1979  Brazil                           Irrigation             28.0         3.1
1730-5   1979  Brazil                           Roads                 107.9         3.9
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control      34.0       22.2
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Eabitacao      Water Supply          130.0         .1
1839     1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport       159.0       26.9
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           139.0        13.5
1867     1980  Brazil                           Education              32.0        14.2
1877     1980  State of irnas Gerais            Rural Development      63.0       45.5
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                 100.5       56.2
1924     1981  Brazil                           Rural Development      56.0        12.4
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  54.0        39.2
1965     1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport        90.0        46.0
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply          180.0       69.5
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0        20.3
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture            29.0        13.3
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture            60.0         4.9
2060     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture            67.0        25.6
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                  13.0        4.5
2062     1982  Brazil                           Highways              240.0       60.8
2116     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4        11.1
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 182.7       141.5
2163     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4        16.2
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development     123.9        99.2
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Development      42.7        27.0
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development       8.9         3.1
2196     1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore              304.5        69.3



-32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
tAs of March 31, 1986)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                    Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Yil±ions)
2224     1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads           154.0      102.6
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           302.3      134.8
2268     1983  Brazil                           Agro-Industries        400.0      358.5
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Development       67.8       57.7
2343     1983  Brazil                           Urban Development       52.7       40.1
2347     1983  Brazil                           Export Development    352.0          .7
2348     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture            303.0         .5
2353     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             65.2       57.5
1729-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture              7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             22.B       22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  250.6      223.0
2365     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  222.8      103.3
2366     1983  Brazil                           Education               20.0       13.6
2412     1984  Brazil                           Education               40.0       33.0
2446     1984  Brazil                           Federal Highways       210.0      165.5
2447     1984  State of Sao Paulo               Health                  55.5       49.4
2448     1984  Brazil                           Health Studies           2.0        2.0
2488     1985  Brazil                           Development Banking   300.0       249.3
2489     1985  Brazil                           Education               72.0       64.5
2523     1985  Brazil                           Rural Development       61.3       58.0
2524/1   1985  Brazil                           Rural Development       61.4       61.4
2532ff  1985  Brazil                            Rural WS&S Pilot        16.3       16.3
2563     1985  Brazil                           Railways               200.0      184.8
2564     1985  Eletrobras                       Power Transmission    400.0       388.8
2565     1985  Eletrobras                       Power Distribution    312.0       301.0
2593/1   1985  Brazil                           Land Tenure            100.0      100.0
262373   1985  State of Santa Catarina          Urban Development       24.5       24.5
26547T   1985  Brazil                           Urban Reconstruction  100.0       100.0
Total                                               11,147.10/2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 2,169.37
Total now outstanding                                8,977.73
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                               8,977.73
Total undisbursed                                                3,890.5
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No iDA credits have been made to Brazil.
/3 Not yet signed.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described In a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-31
3. 335(949MM? IW ITC fWft     I ( l o i nhrrhb I. 31,9Hb)
FisAl                                                                                                                               Mmal In 01 ti II 3.m
YT                                          nlbllgar n Ig                                        of Iutinm                      Lwrn       5(pty    WAI
1957                  Smanam do ka.. CIA. do Rh :tricdh                                  lOctrIcmi  Fatlmmwt                       2413        -       2JI)
191                   oltiilmft, S. A. Calulb. a ISqa                                   llp md P1w                               1.2        -        132)
19!11                 D. L  L Plmtie  do fr1l, S. A.                                     heAtnIu  Par                              0.45       -        U.45
1958                   ltlyrwonrlA  do  naLl. L. A. -   trnbs   a Carcto                   otw  Vdci1m                             2.45       -        2.4
1959                  chapalA a m t rI Clrmntn Pwrtlanl, .S. 06                               t                                    3.)        -        3.20X
1959                  Oiplon Cabalon, S. A.                                      P.lp                                             *.m         -        4,01)
IPW6b19612/97          a   ViUsuYl, S. A.                                                Stml                                      1.A)       1.93     Y.91
1986/189              1ML a Wilulm Cftrfniu, L A.                                        Ptlp lmd P'mar                            1.76       5.71     9.49
Ih711912             Mtlrairct l  S. A. - lildtriA n 0inrdo  h brtlltiuitm       S       rtiLiz                                8H.22       1.03     11.25
1969                  htnpduruii   1hil, S. A.                                           fttradateral                              5.51       2.41     8.98
1970                  PlIoldtsw, L. A. Inumtrls  * otareo                                Ptumndtmas                                5.50       2.1m     4.18
1971                  Odtm. . A.  fldstrta eamrdo                                        Fettdutmla                              4.hO        1.44     6.04
1971                  Ida Oradl - Qqduitk de Ceulum  do SA                               Pulp                                     4.90        -        4.so
197V21975/3981 hapuLs de Clwnto Nataul b   riam                                         Chat                                    169.14      6.70    17M.A4
1973/74/77/Sh/V84    aquLtla StAntien dn aCInlrm - 0D)1A                                 Steel                                    76.97     31.27    92.24
1973                  Ilpital mlct Ohvl.pmut PaW - REA                                   0Gpitu      . flwelopnt                   541)       -        L.OU
1973/9781981         EWrm  de  uewolvbmnto de Pans Itmra    - aM6,. G. A.   Ntdtel Hiaifs aid Pefr1qs                    R        5.W1      8.14     93.74
1974                  histrLs V1am, S. A.                                                Elmvatn       Turtatrlid F)qLI4e         64.1        -        b5.)
1974                  Fabris de Teidotltuape, S. A.                                      Tnuls                                    3A.0)       -       33.0)
1975f"i9               qua   Crbm   trduntrim  Ltd.                                      Cawhm tInch                              h.l8        1.19     7.37
1975                  Cdteno Nardtte, S. A.                                              PstrUCmIIas                              10.00       -       10*.)
1976                  Soatis   ndustria - Imxi di Nwdnte. S. A.                          PxTetils                                  .41        W.U)     7.45
1976f98D              Uramr S. A. - ThxtiL Cartnrmen  do mIr ml                           Ttlem                                   16.2        -       16.20
1977                  Rs S. A. Piuacs Italurlma                                         tlinT   a  Almdnm Cefttia                 2)1D        -       20.f
1977                  Vlrafao Rio do Norte S. A.                                         Itiis                                    35.0)       -       15.00
1978                 aCmtulSidna   S. A. Lnnid esteel                                                                              8.31      1.tn    II.)
1979                  Volvo dD hrail  1utaus e Vealcuia, S. A.                           lar Vdclm                               60.0)       5.7      65.27
19E0                  Beriq ab Bx   te S. A. - _am                                       hnfrm&de Cait.                            2.m        -        2.1n
19l)                   ermb do Piar S/A - DaImia - Agr1 ltum. Irndettrl
e Csrcbh0o de    amm 0 1                                           rDil                                  3.1)       1.W1      4.50
199D                  ViLIna  Indkstrim de fle S. A. - VUINAS                            Irm  md Steel                             5.D        -        5.11)
19)          R          H - Cmp     . Irdstrw  de Pollprqpteluw                          Ohitl abI Patnrdlmicals                  15.0)      2.1)     17.0
19D                   Dtiris asorte S. A.                                                Oahica  and Petrrjhtdc.ls                 -         0.25      0.25
IY80                  Same AhuntA 4ndca e Minerl S/A                                     llttUra                                 35.m        h.OD     O3.A)
390)                  pulutel PetromatxSicm                                              Owitwl  awl petradstml                  43.0)       5.C1     48.0D
1981                  tAdLpsr                                                            Rbry ad Capital kirstn                    -         1.50      1.9D
1981         t         biapad    llsaitimr de AVupwosrln - 0)WE                          ticd and FPid Prnccsltg                  5.50       1.0a      8.50
19,3                  mamEo                                                              Onutwis awl Petmelmiwlal                46.0)       4.0)     50.0)
U82                   C     aine dAE ON                                                     ent aid Gutnatti3n Merisla           40.0)       5.tD     45.00
1982                    grlm4bg S. A.                                                    Money Capital   ilD                     10T)        0.45     35.65
1983         C         l Rtqmx*e  de Partic1pecos (as)                                   Money CIpital KIdwt                      -           .         .01
1983                  AerIa Wirfint                                                      Bad aid Fod Prmsatqs                     13.0m      -        13.no
1983                  fl'yaf Dand. do Amp (COIS)                                         FSI Oil                                  6.10       -         6.10
193                   P1   - Papel de lbqrs  S.A.                                        3I5p 6 Paper Prodacts                   4(1.0       5.17    65.17
198                   SOaOS.A.                                                           Pood aid Foodl Pning                     3.0         Zt50     5.51
1983                 Cdin                                                                Cnt aid OaxwnKtis Pieril                 35.0D      -        35.nn
1986                  NLtelor Pmbte                                                      Oadrals and Petreclmrds                   3.)        5.m      8.00
1984                  Gbntun A1oDalqibdra ?hriuul                                         cnd,la ad Petru efa                     20.0)      4.(0    24.00
g198                  Qda  do Main dsical  aid Petntlls                                                                            3.2D       3.8      5.-1
Tal Crao  Candteist                                                                             935.42     105.72  1,041314
Len 4iw1ljtom. Ttintenw. BPaments aid Skm                                                      679.95      :D.78    710.73
Taui  Gamits Wu Held by 1F                                                                     255.47      74.96    330.41
Total   ihwahd                                                                                  64.46      16.82    79.26
Wul 18, 1986



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Pagea 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: April 1984 to November 1985
(b)  Project prepared by               Brazilian Federal Government,
Ceara State Government, and
FAO/CP staff
(c)  Appraisal Mission              : November-December 1985
(e)  Negotiations                   : July 7-10, 1986
(f)  Loan Effectiveness             : January 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Federal and Ceara State Governments have provided assurances
on the following principal items:
(a) rural investnent credit would be granted in accordance with terms
agreed with the Bank (paras. 56 and 69);
(b)  community support grants will not be disbursed until an agreement
between the TU and the grant's beneficiaries has been signed
(para. 58);
(c) land would be available for distribution at times and in
quantities agreed with the Bank (para. 60); and
(d) funding procedures would be maintained on the terms agreed with
the Bank (para. 68).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
A Special Condition of Loan Effectiveness would be the receipt
by the Bank of evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing, and
administration of all federally-funded rural special programs in Ceara had
been unified under the coordination of CEPA-CE (para. 62).
A Special Condition of Disbursement for loan proceeds financing
the construction of public irrigation schemes would be receipt by the Bank
of proof of acquisition of the land required and approval by the Bank of
the related engineering designs, resettlement plans, and operation and
maintenance standards (para. 73).
A Special Condition of Cancellation of loan proceeds allocated
for the construction of public irrigation schemes would be failure to
commit them to a specific scheme approved by the Bank by June 30, 1988
(para. 73).



BRAZIL                           - -
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMA
/                       NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE
9      cT                     IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                     - .     BRAZIL
P A R A     a         ,     sso       YEARLY LAND ADJUDICATION OPERATIONS          -
,  Ri  ,   .         I    South  America
I's ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
/.J~~~~~~Co,                                        a                           -4 -';   '  °''   
1\ 0 Ub*n,                 FORTALEZA
Low d. P*o                                   OC                        3.
j...."
CEARA
MARAN IHA                                \>  I        es                      - ,,   _
. t                             °            ,.  Co.t.Io doc Poff  k                /
-.                                 .                                                 .~~~~~~~~~~s vt  C..d.P4  -o~C
(                                   C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC-  0
0OOjo, .    ,                                                          R10  GRANDE  *a'A
0                        \  OFors tcnr  ti DO NORTE
4 : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIARU i t 
PIAUl             -a                            AA
>> c / i, rg5C*~~~~~~~~~~tl Codocof DA  fantic
_ - * S                          -¶    .



,   S  .      :-                                                                ,f  /' '             :40."~~/~:  o '~  0m,                                  ,    - .
S&JcdeP .                                 E.RNAMBUCO ,    j                      O
/                                            a /  t   °Seneo rx  \  >.    AlAGOAS
0e                            . 
(~~~~~~~~~ it                                             ..' JLcae,,
GOIAS   5           s(c2ic dCVlSO;OO                                                                OVS° -.                        N rojec nALAGOAS
|Conente         I>                                                o'" e                                        Land    A      tlantiD
S     k    '*SRGIPE
\ ~                                       °         A                                        fLt*kq*G   .;,r ®AeAJ O
BAHIAAig.c
ealxo                     OF-~~~~~~~~~~a d. Sorw.
5eob..             I aS                                 :     . ro
GOIAS                                                                                         Sill ~~~S Mic o*W                      -    Pro ject Boundary
5 / < > Ov.tw c oo co.m s o l=o 0X                              Year 0
YearlI
(N                  . X                                0Y.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or-'g- do Corqu,sto  a*            Year 2
D Y -1   /                                      "--i -  \                    qwowxlqpYear 3
ii              0JaawXrb                                             0 '  °Land adjudication under
oJ rariaother projects
5'F,.D .)                        7 2               * .                                      -)crroubc  ''%-.. 0'4,i,&lOoeM.vs                       Nuclei Centers
o       LZj9BRASIIA                      / RASI                                                                                                       ®      State Capitols                   '
tN, ..j~ Mj  ,                                MaIst Cat                            °5 C'                                                Rivers
rAo Wfd E? to                                                        ~    Cor tr.C laa-s                                                                      State Boundaries
JAB toe .leneIae iw tht  ,I.                                                                                  -.
SC Of frrr c k. ec a "rr   7 Ix
Ago-il    h o                                                                 .- : .  /                                                                       Interiational Boundaries
/or                               MINAS                   GERAI S
rn e e a rM rlAo d S lr -rl  W0                                                                                                                       100         200         300    KILOMETERS
W  hiZarnaltolJr 'fl.xoK Cto' Vo,,ah_
>  oSPrr tertlotJaetIJrM 3                            -                                                  ESPIRITO                           0                 100                200 MILES         r
SANTO                                                                                   m
rr48                                                               '4                                                  o                                                  3;                          0
to~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



-S= -S~~a                               C          BRdAZI                                  r tT1 
0  --  ;;  ; t 0 4;' ;t 0 g ;;  ;6-        B  R A  Z  I L     9:                                  , _    -       ; 
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT VI PROJECT (CEARA)                                           -
:,,''S   7      t S          >                                                           B R A Z I L
U'    '~-"   ''\sEls   '~ '~   tP E-       \                     --*_s               __ ,
"U                                        -S_-a
-  -I--,  / ,              ~~~~~~~FORTALEZA
AN             -E.
4~~~~~~~4
N             -
-7,Jg                         <-                                                                   '
vm-
5L~~~~~~7.    a. aa-
rS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



7 7 ^- 40' B ~~~~~~~~~R A Z I L t0:-
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT VI PROJECT (CEARA)          i
AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL DEFINED BY DEPENDABLE RAINFALL     r                  t      7
__   oj-                                       \t n  B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R A z I L        -
-  F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sd
0 25 50 ? P E R N A M E  I C                                                         A--
n              .405 ....   9-r
I-                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
6..d
2' K
-0T.5PE     AMB     
!e,es,ao~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~p'3






