Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:       20691
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
CEARA AND PARAIBA PROJECTS
(LOAN 2763 and 2860-BR)
June 29, 2000
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Local Currency Unit         Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Exchange Rate at
Project Appraisal Ceara (November 1985):           US$1-Cr$8,891
Rate at Completion                                 US$1-RO.968
Exchange Rate at
Project Appraisal Paraiba (December 1986):         US$1-Cr$14.20
Rate at Completion     (December 31, 1996)         US$1-Ri.0381
Abbreviations and Acronyms
APCR             Program of Support to Small Rural Communities under the Original
Northeast Rural Development Program)
Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais
FAO/CP           World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program
FUMAC            Municipal Community Schemes
Conselho Municipal de Apoio Comunitario
NGO              Non-Govemmenta] Organization
Organiza,co Nao-(iovernamental
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation              Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department           Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation              Mr. Ridley Nelson (Acting)
Task Manager                                         Mr. John Heath



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 29, 2000
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Performance Audit Report on Brazil
Northeast Rural Development Program
Ceara Project (Loan No. 2763-BR)
Paraiba Project (Loan No. 2860-BR)
Attached is the Performance Audit Report prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) on the above two projects which both formed part of Brazil's Northeast Rural Development
Program. The Ceara project (Loan No. 2763-BR) was approved on April 30, 1985 and closed on
December 31, 1995, nine months behind schedule; an undisbursed balance of US$7.1 million was
canceled. The Paraiba project (Loan No. 2860) was approved on June 30, 1987 and closed on December
31, 1996, nine months behind schedule; US$0.6 million was canceled at closing.
The audit focuses exclusively on the performance of these two projects from 1993 to their
respective closing dates. The projects are evaluated against the revised objectives that were approved by
the Bank's Board and became effective on September 28, 1993. When the revised objectives were
approved, of the original loan amounts there was 63 percent left to disburse in Ceari and 64 percent in
Paraiba.
The audit sought to determine whether the results of these two projects were consistent with
expectations when they were reformulated, and to derive lessons that may be applicable to the next cycle
of community-driven development projects, in Brazil and elsewhere.
The revised design entailed shifting the focus from small farmers and agricultural production to
rural poverty alleviation emphasizing poor rural communities and investments in productive,
infrastructure and social subprojects identified, designed and implemented by the beneficiaries. In line
with decentralization trends in Brazil, responsibility for counterpart funding was moved from the federal
government to state governments.
The two projects shared the same (revised) objectives: (i) provide basic social and economic
infrastructure and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor (not only small farmers); (ii) support
rural community groups in identifying, planning and implementing their own subprojects; and (iii)
involve state governments more directly in decision-making and in financing the program.
Project funds were channeled to beneficiaries by one of two mechanisms: PAC (community
associations submit subproject proposals directly to a state technical unit) and FUMAC (subprojects
prepared by associations are first screened by a municipal council, with members drawn from the
community, local government and civil society, following which the highest priority proposals are
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
forwarded to the state technical unit). The Bank considered FUMAC-a small pilot exercise during the
life-span of these projects-to hold greater potential for fostering transparency and ownership because it
invited communities to participate in a municipality-wide process of priority setting.
The results of the reformulated project were very positive. The number of beneficiary families
served by subprojects in the two states was more than three times higher than expected when the projects
were redesigned. The projects clearly targeted the rural poor (although not necessarily the poorest of the
poor). The participatory FUMAC process 'helped to make targeting more precise, encouraging
participants to put the interests of the neediest communities first. The revealed preference of beneficiaries
was for infrastructure projects (mainly rural electrification) which accounted for 56 percent of subprojects
in CearA and 74 percent in Paraiba; productive projects (e.g., agro-processing) accounted for one-quarter
to one-third of all subprojects; and social projects (e.g., day-care centers) for five percent or less.
Resources were used efficiently, 93 percent of project funds financing subprojects directly. The
cost of infrastructure subprojects averaged. 30 percent lower when implemented by communities,
compared to government agencies or contractors. Economic rates of return on productive subprojects
were typically 20 percent or more.
The audit surveyed a total of 77 subprojects across the two states, 55 percent corresponding to
PAC and 45 percent to FUMAC. The survey found that:
* According to 83 percent of respondents, subprojects were well-designed and had improved their
quality of life
* All electrification subprojects were still operational; but 45 of the other subprojects were not, with
productive subprojects most vulnerable.
*  There were no statistically significant differences between PAC and FUMAC concerning the amount
of technical assistance received, and the technical viability of subprojects.
* About one-quarter of beneficiary associations in the two states have funded subprojects from sources
other than project funds.
* Almost one-quarter of associations have received bank credit.
On project outcome, OED concurs with the implementation completion report, rating Ceara
satisfactory and Paraiba highly satisfactory. The audit survey showed that Paraiba counted the number of
beneficiaries more accurately, served a larger percentage of associations with technical assistance, had
more NGO participation, had a higher proportion of technically sustainable projects, and a greater
number of associations reporting satisfaction with subprojects. Paraiba's superior performance partly
reflects the preponderance of electrification-the least problematic of all subprojects.
OED rates sustainability as likely, based primarily on the proven technical viability of subprojects.
Institutional development is rated as substantial, based on the evidence that subprojects contribute to
social capital formation, and because one-quarter of the associations had diversified their source of
funding for subproject investments.
OED upgrades the rating of Bank and Borrower performance from satisfactory to highly satisfactory,
reflecting the progress in decentralizing project administration and empowering beneficiaries, the
continuing refinement of project design, the high quality of supervision, the exemplary implementation
completion reporting, and the commitmerlt by all parties to achieving the projects' development
objectives.



3
There are three main lessons. First, the decentralized and participatory approach to project
administration exemplified by these projects has greatly enhanced client responsiveness, increased the
scope for iterative design improvements (Box 1) and has generated positive externalities for Brazil and
for the Bank by advancing community-based procurement. Resident missions with dedicated supervision
teams can play a critical role in improving decentralized and participatory approaches. Second, as
demonstrated in other countries (e.g., Mexico), productive projects financed by matching grants are less
likely to be sustainable than small-scale infrastructure projects. Third, the discontinuities associated with
the electoral cycle require continuous advocacy by the Bank staff and frequent informnation campaigns to
ensure that project development objectives are kept alive from one administration to the next.
Attachment






Contents
Principal Ratings ..........                                                                     iii
Preface.                                                                                         v
1. Background and Methodology .1
Methodology                                          .2
2.  Relevance: Were Project Objectives Right? ........................................,.,,,.4
3.  Efficacy: Did the Project Achieve its Stated Objectives?                    .5
4. Efficiency: Was the Project Cost Effective9                            .6
5.  Sustainability: Are the Project's Results Likely to Last?                   .7
6.  Institutional Development: Has The Project Led to Better Management of Human and
Financial Resources? .9
7.  Bank Performance                                                                              10
8.  Borrower Performance                                                                          11
9. Findings, Ratings, Lessons .12
Tables
1. Areas covered by audit survey ....2............................2
2. Number of beneficiaries served ................................. , .    ,     .     ,     .     5
3 . Coverage in the eleven audit municipalitiesa ................................6
4. Unit costs, inside and outside the project ...............................,.,.,,,.,.6
5. Intensity of technical assistance ..............................8
6. Sources of f      unding f or subprojects .............................                        10
Annexes
A. Basic Data ........................                                                            15
B. Tables ........................                                                                19
C. Comments from the Government ........................                                          27
MAPS
IBRD 19653 and 20398
This report was prepared by John Heath, Task Manager, who audited the project in December
1999. William Hurlbut edited the report, and Pilar Barquero provided administrative support.






iii
Principal Ratings
Loan No. 2763 (Ceara)                        Loan No. 2860 (Paraebe)
Audit                     ICR                  Audit                    ICR
Outcome                     Satisfactory              Satisfactory       Highly satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory
Sustainability              Likely                    Likely             Likely                    Likely
Institutional Development   Substantial               Substantial        Substantial               Substantial
Borrower Performance        Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory       Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory
Bank Performance            Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory       Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory
Audit ratings
Outcome'                       Highly satisfactory, Satisfactory, Marginally satisfactory, Marginally unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly unsatisfactory.
Sustainability                 Likely, Uncertain, Unlikely.
Institutional Development      Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Borrower Performance           Highly satisfactory, Satisfactory, Marginally satisfactory, Marginally unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance               Highly satisfactory, Satisfactory, Marginally satisfactory, Marginally unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly unsatisfactory.
a. A composite rating, based on relevance, efficacy and efficiency (see main text).
Key Staff Responsible
At appraisal                At midterm            At project completion
Loan No. 2763 (Ceara)
Task Manager                            Alain Berthier              Raimundo Caminha  Joao Barbosa-de Lucena
Division Chief                          Jan Wijnand                 Tia Duer'             Constance Bernarda
Department Director                     Robert Picciotto            Armeane Choksi        Gobind T. Nankani
Loan No. 2860 (Paraiba)
Task Manager                            J.P. Delsalle               Tulio Barbosa          Raimundo Caminha
Division Chief                          D. Martinussen              Tia Duer'              Constance Bernarda
Department Director                     Cornelis Van Der Meer       Armeane Choksi         Gobind T. Nankani
a. Luis Coirolo played a critical supporting role as portfolio manager for the Northeast program.
Note. The Implementation Completion Reports were prepared by Anna Roumani who also participated extensively in the supervision of
these projects.






v
Preface
This is a Performance Audit Report (PAR) of two projects in Brazil's Northeast Rural
Development Program.
i.        The Ceara Project, for which Loan 2763-BR, in the amount of US$122.0 million, was
approved on April 30, 1985. The closing date was December 31, 1995, nine months
behind schedule. The final disbursement from the loan was made on May 21, 1996,
and the balance of US$7.1 million was canceled.
ii.       The Paraiba Project, for which Loan 2860-BR, in the amount of US$60.0 million,
was approved on June 30, 1987. The closing date was December 31, 1996, nine
months later than originally planned. The final disbursement from the loan was made
on May 19, 1997, and US$0.6 million was canceled.
The PAR focuses exclusively on the performance of these two projects from 1993 to their
respective closing dates-after their reformulation. The projects are evaluated against the revised
objectives that were approved by the Bank's Board and became effective on September 28, 1993.
The PAR presents the findings of a mission by the Operations Evaluation Department that
visited Brazil in December 1999. The findings are primarily based on the results of a survey of
subprojects conducted during the mission, as well as interviews with beneficiaries, project staff,
officials of the Govemment of Brazil and the Bank team. The collaboration of these persons is
gratefully acknowledged. In addition, the PAR draws on the staff appraisal reports,
implementation completion reports and other evaluation studies.
Following customary procedures, copies of the draft audit report were sent to the relevant
government agencies for their review and comments. Comments received have been translated
and attached as Annex C.






1
1. Background and Methodology
1.1     The Brazil Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) was supported by 10 Bank-
assisted projects, including the two-in the states of Ceard and Paraiba-that form the subject of
this audit.' The Paraiba project was selected for audit because it was the only one of the 10 with
an outcome rated "highly satisfactory" by the implementation completion report (all other states
were "satisfactory"). Ceara was chosen for this audit because there is a rich evaluative record to
draw on.2
1.2     The loans were signed in FY87 (Ceara) and FY88 (Paraiba) and closed, respectively, in
FY96 and FY97. As initially planned, the NRDP focused on small farmers and provided a mix of
agricultural services and infrastructure. It foundered in all 10 states, for reasons typical of
integrated rural development projects of the time? difficulty in coordinating the various
centralized service providers; and weak sustainability because beneficiaries had little say over the
selection, design and implementation of subprojects. The adverse macroeconomic environment
and the collapse of counterpart funding aggravated these problems. Following an OED study4 and
a protracted midterm review (1991/93), the program was reformulated. This audit focuses
exclusively on the record of these two NRDP projects from 1993 to their closing in 1995/96.
1.3     The audited projects are evaluated against the revised objectives that were approved by
the Bank's Board (and became effective on September 28, 1993): "(i) provide basic social and
economic infrastructure and income -generating opportunities for the rural poor (not only small
farmers); (ii) support rural community groups in identifying, planning and implementing their
own subprojects; and (iii) involve state governments more directly in decision-making and in
financing the program." 5 The implementation completion report notes that "both Bank and
Borrower saw the reformulated NRDP as part of a policy of compensatory actions responding to
an emergency, i.e., the heavy impact on the rural poor of economic and climatic crises and macro-
economic and fiscal adjustment."6
I. Annex B, Table B5 shows where the two audited projects fit in the sequence of projects.
2. Including, Judith Tendler, Good Govemment in the Tropics, Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1997 and
"The rise of social funds: What are they a model of?" draft, January 15, 1999. Professor Tendler's students at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology have greatly contributed to the work on Ceara: see, for example, Rodrigo
Serrano's 1992 Master's thesis, "Who knows what's best for the poor? Demand-driven policies and rural poverty in
Northeast Brazil". Other important studies are: Johan van Zyl, Tulio Barbosa, Andrew N. Parker and Loretta Son,
Decentralized Rural Development and Enhanced Community Participation: A Case Study from Northeast Brazil,
World Bank Policy Research Working Paper No. 1498, August 1995; and Thomas Wiens and Maurizio Guadagni,
Designing Rules for Demand-Driven Rural Investment Funds: The Latin American Experience, World Bank Technical
Paper No. 407, 1998.
3. OED, "Area Development Projects", Lessons and Practices, No. 3, September 1993.
4. Judith Tendler, New Lessons from Old Projects: The Workings of Rural Development in Northeast Brazil,
Washington, DC: World Bank, Operations Evaluation Department, 1993.
5. Implementation Completion Report, Northeast Rural Development Program: Paraiba, Maranhao and Alagoas
Projects, (Report No. 16765), June 24, 1997, p. 7.
6. Ibid, p.7.



2
1.4    Thus, the NRDP was converted into a community-based development program, dropping
all components targeting agricultural production. The redesigned projects provided matching
grants to rural community associations to finance small-scale subprojects identified by those
groups as priority investments for community well-being. The subproject cost could not exceed
US$40,000 equivalent, including a community contribution that ranged from 10 to 20 percent
depending on the type of subproject. Subprojects were classed as infrastructure (mainly
electrification and water supply), social (such as day care centers) and productive (mostly small-
scale agro-processing and communal tractors).
1.5    Responsibility for providing counterpart funds was shifted from the federal government
to state governments. The flow of funds from the national treasury to the states was streamlined.
Two alternative mechanisms were developed-state community schemes (PAC) and pilot
municipal community schemes (FUMAC)-the aim being to test which was more effective in
processing subprojects. The FUMAC pilot processed 11 percent of subprojects in Ceara and 37
percent in Paraiba.
1.6    To facilitate comparison of the iwo mechanisms some communities were assigned to
PAC and others to FUMAC. In the case of PAC, rural communities submitted their subproject
investment proposals directly to a state project technical unit which screened, approved and
released funds for subprojects directly to beneficiaries. By contrast, FUMAC invited rural
communities to submit subproject proposals to a municipal council-an NRDP entity formed
explicitly for reviewing such proposals. The councils composed of community members, local
government representatives and members of civil society, promoted local consensus building on
priority needs through open meetings, and screened and submitted subprojects to the state
technical unit for approval and financing. The completion report notes that "FUMAC is a more
progressive model than PAC, and the Bank has always encouraged its expansion."7
Methodology
1.7    OED compared the performance of subprojects and their respective beneficiary
associations in four zones (1 1 municipalities) (Table 1) .8
Table 1: Areas covered by audit survey
Total N of cases= 77                                     STATE
MICROREGION                            Ceara (N=31)                  Paraiba (N=46)
Brejo (N=39)                          Ibiapina/a                    Alagoa Nova/a
(Annual rainfall: 1,000-1,250 mm)      Ibiapina/a                    Bananeiras/a
Bororema/a
Esperancala
Sertad (N=38)
(Annual rainfall: 750-1,000 mm)        Erere'                       Agua Branca'
Iracema.                     Patosa
Jaguanbea
a. Municipality. See Table B1 for poverty ranking of these municipalities.
1.8    OED made a purposive, not a random sample, for this audit. The brejo microregions were
included in the sample because, on the faice of it, they are better endowed for rural development:
they have more rainfall and higher popu'lation density than the Northeast average; and a legacy of
7. Ibid, p. 8.
8. See Table B I for poverty indicators referring to these municipalities.



3
(Bank-assisted) integrated rural development initiatives dating back to the late 1970s9 The sertiio
microregions were chosen because they are exactly the opposite: semi-arid, sparsely populated
and with less history of project intervention. From a list of all the subprojects financed in these
four zones since 1993, OED selected 90 for inspection (Annex B, Figure B 1). The selection was
not random because the aim was to ensure that the full range of subproject types was represented,
with roughly equal shares of PAC and FUMAC channels. (FUMAC subprojects were deliberately
over represented because they carry more weight in the follow-on project and are considered to
be best practice: they represent 45 percent of the sample but accounted for only 11 percent of all
subprojects in Ceara and 37 percent in Paraiba). For each subproject, the leader of the beneficiary
association was interviewed on site using a short questionnaire (Figure B2). Questionnaires were
completed for 77 of the 90 subprojects selected (the shortfall corresponding to subprojects whose
identifiers on the printout were too imprecise for them to be traced).
1.9    The survey's explanatory power is limited not just by the small number of cases studied
(N=77), but also by the absence of any comparison with groups outside the project: the only way
to rigorously study impact on poverty, incomes and employment is to conduct a panel study,
comparing communities with and without subproject investments, both during the project and
some time after it is completed.10 Also, because the survey interviewed association leaders rather
than a representative sample of beneficiaries the results do not indicate to what extent the choice
of subprojects was demand-driven.
1.10    The audit survey posed 10 questions:
(a)  Was the reformulated project well targeted?
(b)  How many families benefited?
(c)  Does coverage vary substantially between regions?
(d)  How do subproject unit costs compare with the cost of providing similar benefits
outside the project?
(e)  What proportion of project spending finances subprojects?
(f)  Are subprojects still in working order?
(g)  Do beneficiaries cover maintenance costs?
(h)  Does sustainability vary according to (a) type of subproject and (b) the processing
channel?
(i)  Were the beneficiary associations in existence before the subproject was
conceived-or are they project-specific creations?
(j) Have beneficiary associations been able to finance new investments with funds from
outside the project?
9. In each state, these microregions were included in the first-cycle of integrated rural development projects (known as
POLONORDESTE): Loan number 1488 (Ceara, Serra de Ibiapaba) was approved in April 1977; Loan number 1537
(Paraiba, Brejo) was approved in March 1979 Both projects were audited by OED (see Report No. 7910, June 28,
1989).
10. Because these projects cover all municipalities outside the metropolitan area it will be difficult to isolate
communities that have been untouched by the program, making problematic the panel analysis of communities "with"
and "without" subproject investments (Comment by Johan van Zyl, April 11, 2000).



4
2. Relevance: Were Project Objectives Right?-
2.1    The heavy expenditure on the first and second generation of Northeast rural development
projects-US$3.3 billion committed by Brazil between 1975 and 1987-was, in principle,
relevant. About 60 percent of poor pers ns in the Northeast live in rural areas, accounting for
about one-third of all Brazil's poor. 2
2.2    As originally conceived, the NRDP projects were developed and appraised under a
centralized military government in which public agencies controlled most development activity.
Concepts like participation and decentralization were politically problematic in the Brazil of the
period and not yet regular part of the Bank's lexicon. These circumstances changed in the course
of the project. By the mid- 1980s Brazil had returned to democratic rule, and adopted a new
constitution in 1988 that promoted decentralization. In Mexico, the Solidarity program was
launched-a Bank-supported experiment in community-driven development that would inspire
imitators in other countries.13
2.3    The original NRDP projects were blighted by (a) poor targeting, (b) substantial
counterpart funding delays, (c) erosion of project funds by high inflation, (d) sector policy
distortions that harmed agriculture (e) difficulties in coordinating rural credit and subsidy
components, (f) inefficient project administration by state agencies; and (f) sluggish
disbursement. The redesigned project addressed each of these problems and was fully consistent
with changing priorities in Brazil and in the Bank's strategy.
2.4    Disbursement was speeded-up by taking project administration away from federal
agencies and giving it to the states. The state agency monopoly over project administration and
service delivery was broken. The introduction of matching grants provided resources to the non-
bankable poor while building community ownership. One of the more promising components of
the original project-support to small rnLral communities (APCR)-was expanded, with the target
group shifting from small farmers to poor rural communities. Infrastructure subprojects were
reinstated-these had been excluded when the project was appraised on the grounds that
infrastructure benefited local elites more than proportionately, while roads and electrification
were already well-funded."4
2.5    The reformulated projects revealed that beneficiaries had a strong preference for
infrastructure (which accounted for half to three-quarters of all subprojects)'5. The participatory
design of the reformulated project suggests that these investments corresponded to what
communities wanted. However, the influence of municipal mayors should not be discounted. The
audit survey found that electrification subprojects were much more likely to be supported by
mayors than other subprojects (Table B2 ), possibly explaining the preponderance of this type of
investment.
I1. The relevance, efficacy and efficiency ratings are rnot published by OED (see page 2): but the "Outcome" rating is a
composite of these three implicit ratings.
12. Brazil: Poverty Assessment, World Bank, Junz 27, 1995, pp. 49-50.
13. See OED Performance Audit (Report No. 17975), Mexico: Decentralization and Regional Development Project
(Loan 3310), July 9, 1998.
14. Tendler, 1993, op.cit., p. 12.
15. See Table B6.



5
3. Efficacy: Did the Project Achieve its Stated Objectives?
3.1    Table B6 summarizes project results for the two states, as recorded in the implementation
completion report.
3.2    Was the project well targeted? Targeting took place at two levels. The first was area-
based, drawing on a survey of the incidence of rural poverty in the Northeast.16 Because poverty
was so widespread in the Northeast the project was not geographically selective, including all
municipalities other than metropolitan areas. The second-more important-level of targeting
was community-based: beneficiaries themselves determined where project resources would be
best applied based on their first-hand knowledge of community socioeconomic conditions and
local investment needs. This process was more rigorous under FUMAC than PAC because the
municipal councils broadened the framework within which priority setting took place-the
municipality as a whole became the frame of reference, not just the horizon of a single
beneficiary association.
3.3    How many families benefited? Because the reformulated projects were demand-driven
there are no ex-ante targets for the number of subprojects to be financed in each category
(infrastructure, productive and social). The original appraisal set a target for the total number of
subprojects, revised when the project was reformulated. According to the implementation
completion report,'7 coverage amply exceeded both the earlier and the later target (Table 2).
Paraiba exceeded the average for all 10 states in the program. Ceari did not match this average-
but still served four times more beneficiaries than estimated at reformulation.
Table 2: Number of beneficiaries served
(1) Original    (2) Target at   (3) Achievement     (4)
Target       Refonnulation    after Reformulation  (3)/(2) ('Y)
Parafba                   37,800         23,000          149,633             651%
Ceara                    122,800         50,000          208,830             418%
Total (10 states)        574,500        307,400         1,779,353            579%
Source: Report No. 16765 (Paraiba), 1997, p. 92.
3.4    Does coverage vary substantially by region? According to the project database, in the 11
municipalities included in the audit survey, the density of coverage-in terms both of the number
of subprojects and the number of families served-was higher for municipalities located in Ceara
and the sertdo microregion than it was for municipalities in Paraiba and the brejo microregion
(Table 3). For the 11 municipalities in question, there are actually more poor families in Paraiba
than in Ceard,'8 illustrating the imprecision of targeting. In Ceara the number of beneficiaries
outnumbered the number of poor families by a factor of three: which may mean that each poor
family was served by three separate projects-or that the number of beneficiaries was
substantially inflated. Comparing results from the audit survey with the project database (see the
highlighted row in Table 3) suggests that, in the case of Ceara, the database overestimates the
number of beneficiaries; for Paraiba, on the other hand, the two sources closely agree.
16. 0 Mapa de Fome, Volume III (Documento de Politica No. 17), Brasilia: IPEA, August 1993.
17. Report No. 16765 (Paraiba), June 24, 1997, Table 15, p. 92.
18. Poverty figures taken from 0 Mapa de Fome, 1993, op. cit.



6
Table 3: Coverage in the eleven audit municipalitiesa
Paralba          Ceara            Brejo            Sertao
N of poor families in 1993P             20,891           13,774            16,142           18,523
N. of subprojects financedc             87               146              74                159
N. of families served by subprojectsc   6,108            47,499           20,437            33,170
Mean N of families per subprojectd      70 (71)          329 (52)         276 (58)          209 (71)
Subprojects per poor family            .1)04             .011             .005              .009
Families served/Poor families (%)       29%              344%              127%             179%
a. See Figure 1 for list of municipalities.
b. Source:O Mapa de Fome, Volume IlIl (Documento de Politica No. 17), Brasilia: IPEA, August 1993 (see Table 81).
c. Source: Project database.
d. Source: Project database and (for bracketed numbel) OED Audit Survey.
4. Efficiency: Was the Project Cost Effective?
4.1     How do subproject unit costs compare with similar investments outside the project? For
the Northeast program as a whole it is estimated that the cost of infrastructure projects is on
average 30 percent lower when they are implemented by the communities themselves (directly or
through small local firms) than by government agencies or contractors.'9 This audit found that, in
the case of rural electrification-the prDdominant investment, accounting for 46 percent of cases
surveyed-costs per kilometer are lower in the projects than outside (Table 4), particularly for the
low-tension lines linking individual hoases to the grid. Building costs (e.g., community centers,
substations) average 50 percent higher outside the project.
4.2     Constrained by the budget ceiling (US$40,000 per subproject),20 much of the investment
in rural electrification was for "mono phase" equipment. Mono phase costs half as much as triple
phase-but this may be a false economy because while it is adequate for domestic needs it is not
powerful enough to support irrigation pumps or factory machinery, limiting the scope for
development of productive projects.
Table 4: Unit costs, inside and outside the project
1999 pncese              Project (Paraiba)   Project (Ceari)     Non-project (Paraiba)'
Rural electrification
US$1km
High tension line
(trifasica, 13,800 volts)     3,364               3,751*                  3,792
Low tension line321375504
(tnfasica, 220 volts)         3,231               3,751*                 5043
Built space                    105                 NA                     152
US$/m2
Source: Data supplied to audit mission by state technical units in Paraiba and Ceara, December 1999.
a. US$1.00=RS1.87
l' Data from SAELPA, Paraibas privatized electricty utility
* Mean for high and low tension lines. NA Not available.
4.3     What proportion ofproject spending finances subprojects? Bank task managers estimate
that before the project was restructured in 1993 only 40 percent of project funds financed
subprojects directly,21 compared to 93 percent currently (leaving 7 percent to cover operating and
19. Staff Appraisal Report, (RPAP, Paraiba), No. 16757, October 1997, p.50.
20. This ceiling was raised to US$50,000 in the i'ollow-on projects.
21. In the first cycle of projects (POLONORDESTE, 1975-85) only 20 percent of projects funds were actually
available for physical investments.



7
technical assistance costs-excluding salaries). This reflects the substantial reduction in agency
fees associated with the shift towards more decentralized project administration. Calculations for
similar projects in Africa-supported by the International Fund for Agricultural Development-
found that operating and technical assistance costs (without salaries) can amount to as much as
140 percent of all other costs entailed by a subproject.22
4.4    In addition, the implementation completion report (Paraiba) calculated high economic
rates of return for selected productive projects: irrigation (30 percent); small ruminant
development (20 percent); cereals processing (40 percent); and over 50 percent for installing a
forage grinder.
5.  Sustainabiity: Are the Project's Results Likely to Last?
5.1    Are subprojects still in working order? Not surprisingly, beneficiaries were more
likely to rate the subproject's impact on their lives as positive if the subproject wets still in
working order when the questionnaire was applied?4 The audit survey found that, overall, three-
quarters of subprojects were still operational. There were highly significant differences between
the two states and between types of subproject. Only 59 percent of Ceara subprojects were still
working, compared to 85 percent in Paraiba. This reflects the higher mean age of subprojects in
Ceara (more time to break down) and the lower share of electrification in total investments (19
percent in Ceara compared to 54 percent in Paraiba). All the electrification projects were still
operational.
5.2    Subprojects supported by mayors were more likely to be still operational (Table B4): this
is probably an artifact of mayors' keen support for electrification investments (which were always
sustainable). Subprojects were more likely to be still operational if technical assistance had been
specifically earmarked for the maintenance phase; technical assistance received during
preparation and implementation did not have any significant impact on sustainability? NGO
participation had no impact on the technical viability of subprojects. Also, sustainability was not
influenced by whether or not beneficiaries kept a maintenance fund: this squares with the frequent
assertion by beneficiaries (picked up in group meetings during the audit mission) that they would
club together whenever infrastructure actually broke down-rather than pledge money in
advance. Nor was sustainability more likely when beneficiaries had made a cash contribution to
subproject costs (rather than, or in addition to, putting in their labor).
5.3    Do beneficiaries cover maintenance costs? In the case of electrification maintenance is
unproblematic because it is financed by consumer tariffs and is not the direct responsibility of the
user. In other cases, there was little evidence of any payment of user fees, or contribution to a
contingency fund. In only 20 percent of cases had a fund been established to cover maintenance
costs. However, there was a highly significant difference between the sertao (where 35 percent of
subprojects have a maintenance fund) and the brejo (5 percent), perhaps indicating that people
hardened by drought are more likely to take the forward-looking measures needed to protect their
investment.
22. Information supplied by Jean Delion, April 4, 2000.
23. Report No. 16765 (Paraiba), June 24, 1997, Table 9D, p. 77.
24. For analysis of significant correlation between questionnaire responses, see Table B4.
25. See Table B4.



8
5.4    Does sustainability vary accordling to the type ofproject? The audit survey found that
electrification subprojects-which accounted for 41 percent of the total-were all in working
order; of the other subprojects (59 percent of the total), just over half were still in working order.
Productive projects-which accounted for 23 percent of total investment in Paraiba and 39
percent in Ceara-had the poorest reco:rd. A prolonged drought-which started in 1996-reduced
the sustainability of productive projects, affecting even the brejo, a region which traditionally has
an adequate water supply.
5.5    Also, the project selection process did not screen adequately for the business skills that
make for viable enterprises.
5.6    It could be argued that the nature of the funding (grants, not loans) is not consistent with
a class of subprojects that, ideally, shouLld generate a return large enough to cover the cost of
funds. The Bank team argues that the poor beneficiaries targeted by these projects are non-
bankable and that enterprise start up would be impossible without some element of grant funding;
given the beneficiary contribution, the grant is less than 100 percent of project cost.
5.7    Based on the subprojects visited in the eleven municipalities during the audit mission,
OED agrees with the verdict of an earlier review of the Northeast program:
"Many productive subprojects showed low prospects for sustainability and... low potential
for having a significant impact on economic development... Many subprojects often
suffered market problems because they focused on products (e.g. garment-making, fruit
processing) whose market was dominated by large firms and for which marketing required
organizational skills rarely available in rural communities. Other subprojects were linked to
crops (e.g., manioc) consumed directly or processed mainly at the farm level, or whose
prices have been declining or stagnant, so they were unlikely to have a significant impact in
the economic transformation of the region. Most of the agro-processing subprojects (e.g.,
manioc mills and fruit processing) were working far below full capacity. In addition, the
collective nature of productive subprojects frequently led to problems of collective
management (e.g., of irrigation kits)... Cases of successful productive subprojects revealed
the potential for program interventions to link farmers to dynamic, export-oriented
activities (e.g., cashew nuts and irrigated fruits), but they were unfortunately too few in
number."26
5.8    Does sustainability vary accord!ing to the processing channel? In terms of the technical
viability of subprojects, there was no statistically significant difference between the PAC and
FUMAC channels. 71 percent of PAC subprojects were still operational, compared to 77 percent
of FUMAC subprojects. The level of technical assistance received did not vary significantly by
processing channel (Table 4).
Table 5: Intensity of technical assistance
% of subprojects that received     PA,                FUMAC            Significance testa
technical assistance for...       (N=412)             (N=35)
Preparation                        88.1                85.7            P=.75 (NS)
Implementation                     85.7                85.7            P=1 00
Maintenance                         54.7               57.1            P=.83 (NS)
Sourve: OED Audit Survey, 1999.
a. Chi-square. NS= Not significant.
26. Damiani, 1996, op. cit., p. 11.



9
5.9    Sustainability depends not just on the technical viability of the original project but also on
the social capital (trust, solidarity) created during preparation and implementation-capital that
may help to increase commitment to sound operation and maintenance of the investment. A
substantial body of work by consultants who surveyed the level of community participation in
1993, 1994 and in 1998/200027 indicates that the FUMAC process is better at building social
capital. The data collected by this audit are not strong enough to either support or reject these
earlier findings. However, some evidence was uncovered that the effectiveness of the FUMAC
process can be reduced in the short-term by state government rotation. In Paraiba, a change of
administration led to a temporary deactivation of the municipal councils. There was a
considerable drop in the share of subprojects processed through the FUMAC channel-down
from 37 percent when the audited project closed (1996) to 6 percent almost midway in the follow-
on (1999).28 The lack of continuity between administrations-at state and municipal level-
demonstrates the need for Bank staff to make a continuous commitment to promoting the
principles of the project.
6. Institutional Development: Has The Project Led to Better
Management of Human and Financial Resources?
6.1    Did the beneficiary associations substantially predate the subprojects? One hypothesis is
that associations that were created around a specific subproject may have shallower roots and
therefore be less likely to survive than associations that have a longer record-and possibly a
momentum independent of the program. The audit survey found that 47 percent of the
associations had existed more than three years before the subproject agreement was signed. While
the technical viability of subprojects is not higher for longer-lived associations, longevity may
help build social capital.
6.2    Have beneficiary associations been able to finance new investments with funds from
outside the project? One hypothesis is that beneficiaries will be empowered by the project
process leading to increased self-reliance and the ability to take on new projects. This is a key
question. Will the momentum built by the project be sustained after loan closing? The survey
found that 23 percent of beneficiary associations in Ceara and 26 percent in Paraiba have funded
subprojects from other sources.29 Almost one-quarter of associations have received bank credit
(Table 6). There are significant differences by microregion and by processing channel.
Associations in the brejo have funded more projects from outside sources than those in the sertao
(perhaps reflecting the latter's more risky environment). PAC associations have funded more
projects from outside than FUMAC. The same pattern holds for access to bank credit.
Associations in the brejo (or in PAC) have a higher frequency of loans from banks than those in
the sertao (or in FUMAC). There is a significant positive correlation between access to bank
credit and the number of investmnents financed outside the project.30 On the other hand, there is no
27. C. Kottak, "A Study of Popular Participation in the Brazil Northeast Rural Development Program", University of
Michigan, unpublished paper, February 7, 1994; C. Kottak and A. Costas, "1994 Follow-up Study", University of
Michigan, unpublished paper, December 2, 1995; A. Costas, "Community Participation and Social Capital in the
RPAPs", preliminary draft, April 2000.
28. Office Memo, "Pre-Supervision Summary: Paraiba Rural Poverty Project (Loan No. 4251)", September 28, 1999.
29. This tallies with the estimate from the current project cycle that one-quarter of associations have raised funds
outside the project (comment by Tulio Barbosa, April 4, 2000).
30. See correlation between items Q26 and Q27, Table B4.



10
correlation between the number of subprojects financed with project funds and the number
financed from outside sources.
Table 6: Sources of funding for subprojects
N=77Associations                 Mean orpercentage          difference
Mean number of subprojects per Association             1.4
funded by PAPP/PCPR project
States: Paraiba/Ceara                                1.5/1.2                  NS
Microregions: Brejo/Sertao                           1.4/1.4                  NS
Subproject type: Electrification/Other               1.2/1.4                  NS
Process: PAC/FUMAC                                   1.5/1.2                  NS
Mean number of subprojects per Association             0.5
funded from outside the PAPPIPCPR project
States: Paraiba/Ceara                                0.5/0.6                  NS
Microregions: Brejo/Sertao                           0.9/0.1              P=.002 (HS)
Subproject type: Electrification/Other               0.2/0.7               P=.047 (S)
Process: PAC/FUMAC                                   0.7/0.2               P=.040 (S)
Percentage of Associations that have received         23.3%
bank credit
States: Paraiba/Ceara                              28.2%/16.1%                NS
Microregions: Brejo/Sertao                         35.9%/10.5%            P=.009 (HS)
Subproject type: Electrification/Other             22.5%/24.4%                NS
Process: PAC/FUMAC                                 40.4%/2.8%             P=.001 (HS)
Source: OED Audit Survey, 1999.
NS Not significant (p=>.05); HS Highly significant (p=<.01); S Significant (p=.01 to .05). Student t test applied to difference between means.
Chi-square applied to difference between percentages.
7. Bank Performance
7.1    In 1991/92, there was pressure from Bank senior management and the Brazilian
government to cancel the 10 NRDP prljects: a record of weak administration and sluggish
disbursement was compounded by a fiscal crisis, undermining the credibility of the projects. But
instead of being cancelled the projects were successfully restructured. This would not have been
possible without a concerted effort by the division chief and her portfolio adviser3' including a
lightning promotional tour of the state governments. Governors were invited to visit the Bank-
supported Solidarity project in Mexiccthe first of the community-based, demand-driven
operations-and it was this first-hand, ncounter which persuaded them that the Northeast projects
were worth salvaging.32
7.2     The successful outcome of the restructured projects depended on flexible and responsive
supervision. Yet supervision intensity for the two audited projects was very low: Paraiba
averaged 7.1 staff weeks per year in F'r93/97, and Ceara 10.1 staff weeks-compared to a mean
of 23.6 staff weeks for agriculture projects in the Latin America region. This may reflect the
economies derived from having task iranagers dedicated entirely to supervising this type of
project, covering projects in a number of states from a local base.
7.3     It has been noted that, "the presence of a resident mission in Recife has often been an
effective instrument.. .as task managers were able to respond promptly to problems and take
advantage of their connections at the sgtate level."33 Established in 1974, the Recife Office had
three task managers dedicated exclusively to working with the Northeastern states following the
31. Tia Duer and Luis Coirolo, respectively.
32. The Mexico project (Loan 3310) was audited by OED (see ReportNo. 17975, July 9, 1998).
33. Damniani, 1996, op. cit p. 24.



11
reformulation. This team handled all supervision activities including procurement reviews and
field visits. The Recife Office also updated and managed a global database providing detailed
information on the subprojects and serving as a monitoring tool both for the Bank and for
individual state technical units. In this respect, Bank support was well tailored to the
decentralized structure of the reformulated Program.
7.4    The Northeast projects have had a Bank-wide demonstration effect and have played a
particularly important role in facilitating the spread of more flexible, community-based
procurement procedures.
7.5    Finally, the implementation completion report 34 for these projects were of a very high
standard, providing a clear and comprehensive evaluation of the period before and after
restructuring and providing an essential input to the well-presented staff appraisal reports for the
follow-on projects.
8. Borrower Performance
8.1    In general, Borrower performance and commitment improved substantially following the
reformulation of the projects and was a critical ingredient of the satisfactory outcome.
8.2    The completion report makes the following measured assessment:
"In the post-reformulation phase, with counterpart funding responsibilities transferred to
the states, the federal govermment periodically delayed the release of loan funds and/or
advances of (federal) treasury funds to them, sometimes for political reasons but more
often to promote financial discipline in state performance. The states also periodically
delayed the release of resources to the associations even when federal loan funds were
available, whether for fiscal, political or other reasons. Overall, however, the federal, state
and increasingly the municipal governments' willingness to support a radically new
approach to rural poverty alleviation was instrumental in the success of the reformulated
projects."
8.3    The audit found that staff in the technical units were well organized, had a strong field
presence, and were highly committed to the program. There was good coordination between
technical units and the state agriculture extension agency: beneficiaries reported that extension
agents were one of the prime sources of informnation about the project; and the extension agency
provided technical assistance for subproject preparation and implementation. Coordination with
state education and health authorities-whose data could have been used to improve targeting-
was much weaker. In Ceari, irrigation expertise was insufficient-both in the state extension
agency and in private firms-with the result that many subproject designs had to be reworked.
34. Prepared by Anna. F. Roumani.



12
9.  Findings, Ratings, Lessons
9.1    In general, the audit's findings bear out an earlier review of the NRDP:
"The small size and nature of the subprojects and decentralized implementation
substantially improved the disbtarsement of project funds, reduced administrative
expenditures.. .and better targeted the poor`35
9.2    The audit survey of  1I municipalities found that:
*  According to 83 percent of respondents, subprojects were well-designed and had improved
their quality of life
*  All electrification subprojects were still operational; but 45 of the other subprojects were not,
with productive subprojects most vulnerable.
*  There were no statistically significant differences between PAC and FUMAC conceming the
amount of technical assistance received, and the technical viability of subprojects.
-  About one-quarter of beneficiary associations in the two states have funded subprojects from
sources other than project funds.
*  Almost one-quarter of associations, have received bank credit.
9.3    On project outcome, OED concurs with the implementation completion report, rating
Ceara satisfactory and Paraiba highly satisfactory. The audit survey showed that Paraiba counted
the number of beneficiaries more accurately, served a larger percentage of associations with
technical assistance, had more NGO participation, had a higher proportion of technically
sustainable projects, and a greater number of associations reporting satisfaction with subprojects
(Table B2). Paraiba's superior performance partly reflects the preponderance of electrification-
the least problematic of all subprojects.
9.4    OED rates sustainability as likely, based primarily on the proven technical viabilility of
subprojects and the reliability of cost recovery from the predominant rural electrification
component. Institutional development is rated as substantial, based on the evidence that
subprojects contribute to social capital formation, and because one-quarter of the associations had
diversified their source of funding for subproject investments.
9.5    OED upgrades the rating of Bank and Borrower performance from satisfactory to highly
satisfactory, reflecting the progress in decentralizing project administration and empowering
beneficiaries, the continuing refinement of project design, the high quality of supervision, the
exemplary implementation completion reporting, and the commitment by all parties to achieving
the projects' development objectives.
9.6    Now that project design has matured, a closer impact evaluation is a high priority, based
on a representative sample of subproject investments, and paying close attention to sustainability
(particularly of productive projects) and employment generation.
35. Octavio Damiani, "Report for the Govemm -nt of Brazil-World Bank Commission: Rural Poverty," February 1996,
p. 23.



13
Box 1: Project Refinements-The Team's Assessment
At the end of the audit mission, Bank task managers and the heads of the state technical units were each invited to list
(independently) what, in their view, are the main improvements since the projects were restructured in 1 993.6
*   Smoother project operation and disbursement resulting from shifting counterpart funding from the federal to state
governments.
.   Greater empowerment of beneficiaries, owing to the formation of more (and more representative) municipal councils,
and the suppression of "umbrella" associations that pose as intermediaries between diverse communities and the
project administration.
.   More rigorous selection of subprojects, including expansion of the negative list to exclude some social and
productive investments that have performed poorly (e.g. ambulances, cattle raising).
.   Improved quality of subprojects, reflecting better training of project staff, increased competition between public and
private service agencies, and the provision that up to 8 percent of the subproject budget may be used to fund
technical assistance.37
.   Increased proportion of project funds reaching the final beneficiary.
.   Cost ceiling per subproject raised from US$40,000 to US$50,000.
.   More flexible procurement and disbursement procedures, including increased incentives to beneficaries to minimize
subproject costs: when actual costs are lower than the approved budget the savings may be retained by the
association to finance other (approved) projects.
.   Strengthening of the project's management information system.
.   Progress on community procurement, generating positive externalities for projects throughout the Bank.
.   Introduction of a complementary agrarian reform project that addresses one of the primary constraints on poverty
reduction-lack of productive assets; the agrarian reform project was piloted in Ceara and then expanded to cover,
in addition to Ceara, the states of Bahia, Maranh5o, Minas Gerais and Pemambuco.
9.7     There are three main lessons. First, the decentralized and participatory approach to
project administration exemplified by these projects has greatly enhanced client responsiveness,
increased the scope for iterative design improvements (Box 1) and has generated positive
externalities for Brazil and for the Bank by advancing community-based procurement. Resident
missions with dedicated supervision teams can play a critical role in improving decentralized and
participatory approaches. Second, as demonstrated in other countries (e.g., Mexico), productive
projects financed by matching grants are less likely to be sustainable than small-scale
infrastructure projects. Third, the discontinuities associated with the electoral cycle require
continuous advocacy by the Bank staff and frequent information campaigns to ensure that project
development objectives are kept alive from one administration to the next.
36. Some of these improvements were made in the course of the audited projects, others in the follow-on.
37. But, in Paraiba, the 8 percent option is not being exploited because it was poorly advertised and local staff are
unaware of the arrangement.






15                                            Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
BRAZIL: NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
CEARA PROJECT (LOAN 2763-BR)
Key Project Data
Appraisal                 Actual or               Actual as % of
Estimate               Latast estimate          appraisal estimate
Total project costs (US$)             254.3                     156.5                     61.54
Loan amount (USM$)                                              122.0
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96
Appraisal estimate                  9.80  20.10  36.60  55.00  75.80  95.20 107.50 117.40 122.00 122.00
Actual'                              -    8.80   18.96  28.28  36.74  38.18  43.85  47.68  55.18  84.86b
Actual as % of estimate              -      44     52    51      48     40    41    41       45      70
Date of final disbursement: May 21,1996
a. US$30.0 million cancelled December 1994.
b. Loan balance of US$7.14 million cancelled November 12,1996.
Project Dates
Steps in project cycle                                       Original                   Actual
Identification                                                  -                        1982
Preparation                                                     -                        1983
Appraisal                                                       -                    November 1985
Negotiations                                                    -                     July 7, 1986
Board presentation                                              -                   October 21, 1986
Signing                                                         -                     July 20,1987
Effectiveness                                                   -                   October 19, 1987
Closing                                                   March 31, 1995           December 31, 1995
Project Completion                                      September 30,1994          December31, 1995
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                    Planned                 Revised                 Actual
Staff      usr         Staff       US$,        Staff      USSOOO
Weekse                 Weeks'        S$        Weeks       U$0
Through appraisal                      -           -           -           -         65.2
Appraisal-Board                        -           -           -           -          5.6
Board-Effectiveness                    -           -           -          -
Supervision                            -           -           -          -          90.5
Completion                             -           -          -           -           4.0
Total                                  -           -          -           -          165.3



16                                            Annex A
Mission Data
Duration of                    Performnance ratings
Stage ofproject    Date     No. of staff    miss on    Specializations   Implement.  Develop.    Types of
cycle      (month/year)   in field    (# of days)   represented      Status    Objectives   problems'
Through Appraisal    2/85        n/a          n/a          Ec, Eng          n/a         n/a         n/a
7/85         3            6            Ec, Eng          n/a        n/a          n/a
Appraisal through   11/85         2           11              Ec            n/a         n/a         n/a
Board Approval
Supervision         11/86         1           6              n/a            n/a         n/a         n/a
5/87         2           n/a           Ec, Eng          n/a        n/a          n/a
6/87         1           n/a           Fin Ec           2           2           Fin
5/88         1           n/a             n/a            1           2           Fin
2/89         1           n/a             n/a            2           2       Fin, Eco, Pol
5/89         1           n/a             n/a            2           2       Fin, Eco, Pol
12/89         2           9            Ec, Fin           2           2          Fin
2/90         1           n/a             Fin            2           2         Fin, Inst
6/90         2            9            Fin, Eng         3           3      Fin, Man, Leg
7/90         1           n/a            FinEc           3           3      Fin, Inst, Tech,
Pol
7/91                 Updated 590                        2           2           Fin
5/92                 Updated 590                        1           2           Fin
11193         1           4             AgEc             2           2          Fin
2/94         1           n/a            AgEc            2           2        Fin, Man
4/94         1            8             AgEc            S           S        Fin, Man
9/95         1            4             AgEc            S           S          Man
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
Related Bank Loans
Loan title         Loan            Purpose             Year of        Status       Closing
approval                     date
Northeast Region Land    2593-BR   To improve land tenure      1986      Cancelled due
Tenure Improvement                and the legal and                     to institutional
Project                           institutional basis of land            and policy
markets in the Noitheast.             obstacles.
Ibiapaba Rural         1488-BR   To improve the incomes                                    1985
Development Project               and living standaris of
small farm families.
Second Ceara Rural     1924-BR   To improve the incomes                                    1986
Development Project               and living standards of
small farm families.



17                                              Annex A
BASIC DATA SHEET
BRAZIL: NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
PARAIIBA PROJECT (LOAN 2860-R)
Key Project Data
Appraisal estimate             Actual or           Actual as % of appraisal
Latest estimate               estimate
Total project costs (US$)             123.9                       96.0                      77.48
Loan amount (USM$)                                                60.0
Cancellation (US$)
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
Appraisal estimate                    4.8    9.6   18.0   27.0   37.2   46.8   52.8   57.6   60.0   60.0
Actual                                5.2    7.1   10.9   18.7   20.3   23.9   26.6   29.8   42.9  59.4a
Actual as% of estimate                108    74      60     69      54     51      50     52     72      99
Date of final disbursement: May 19, 1997
a. An estimated balance of US$0.6 million will be canceled.
Project Dates
Steps in project cycle                                          Original                    Actual
Identification                                                     --                        1984
Preparation                                                        --                       1984/86
Appraisal                                                         --                    December 1986
Negotiations                                                       --                    May 13,1987
Board presentation                                                 --                    June 30, 1987
Signing                                                                                  July 20, 1987
Effectiveness                                               November 1987              October 15,1987
Closing                                                     March 31,1996             December 31,1996
Project Completion                                        September 30, 1995          December 31, 1996
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of project cycle   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   Total
Preparation            32.4                                                                                      32.4
Appraisal              17.4                                                                                       17.4
Negotiations through    9.0                                                                                        9.0
Board Approval
Supervision                     10.4     7.8   13.7    10.1       8.0   10.5      9.3     5.2     4.1      6.6   85.7
Completion                                                                                                 3.5     3.5
Total                  58.8    10.4      7.8   13.7    10.1       8.0   10.5      9.3     5.2     4.1    10.1   148.0



18                                            Annex A
Mission Data
Durai'ion of                    Perfonnance ratings
Stage of project   Date      No. of staff    mission    Specializations   Implement.  Develop.  Types of
cycle      (month/year)   in field    (# of days)   represented       Status    Objectives problemsZ
Through Appraisal    5/86         3             3          Af. IrrEng        n/a         n/a        n/a
Appraisal through   12/86         1            10           FinAnal          n/a         n/a        n/a
Board Approval
Board Approval      9/87          1             3           FinAnal           2           2      Inst. Man
Through
Effectiveness
Supervision         3/88          1            10           FinAnal           2           2        Man
2/89         1            :3             Ec              2           2         Fin
5/89         1            21           FinAnal           2           2       Fin, Pol
12/89         2           11            FinAnal           2           2        Fin
6/90         2            12           FinAnal           3           2       Fin, Man
IngEng
5/91a         1                         FinAnal           3          2       Fin, Man
6/92                 Updated 590                         2           1         Fin
6/93                 Updated 590                         2           2         Fin
11/93         1            t             AgEc             2           1        Fin
5/94         1            !5            AgEc             S           S         n/a
5/95                 Updated 590                         S           S         n/a
9/95         1            :3             Ag              S           S         n/a
6/96                 Updated 590                         S           S         n/a
8/96         1            4              Ag              S           S         n/a
a. No Aide Memoire or Back-to-Office Report on file.
Other Project Data
Related Bank Loans
Loan title         Loan             Purpose             Year of        Status       Closing
approval                      date
Northeast Region Land    2593-BR   To improve land tenure       1986      Cancelled due
Tenure Improvement                 and the legal and                      to institutional
Project                            institutional basis cf land            and policy
markets in the Northeast.              obstacles.
Paraiba Rural           1537-BR   To improve the incomes        1978                        1986
Development Project                and living standards of
small farm families
Studies included in the Project
Study                  Purpose as Defined at                Status          Implact of Study
Appraisal/Redifined
Feasibility studies     To determine areas with irrigation          Done           Various schemes
potential                                                  implemented.



19                                           Annex B
Figure Bi. Sampling Frame for OED Audit Survey (N=90 subprojects)
Region: Areia, Paraiba
PAC                                                 FUMAC
01 Bananeiras Type: Eletr rural (N=1), Date: 22/10193  17-24 Bananeiras Type: Eletr. rural (N=8), Date: 20/06/94
02 Bananeiras Type: Avicultura (N=1), Date 26/12/93  25 Alagoa Nova Type: Fab doces (N=1), Date: 05/10/93
03-14 Bananeiras Type: ? (N=1 1), date 12/31/98     26-28 Alagoa Nova Type: ? (N=3), Date: 12/31/98
15 Esperanca Type: Olaria (N=1), Date 25/03/94
16 Esperanca Type: Banco seme (N=1), Date 16/12/93
Region: Patos, Paraiba
PAC                                                 FUMAC
29-32 Patos Type: Poco arte (N=4), Dates: 10/93     38-47 Agua Branca Type: Various (N=10), Dates: 1993-94
33 Patos Type: Irrigacao (Trincheiras 1) (N=1), Date:  48 Agua Branca Type: Irrigacao (Mereco) (N=1), Date
11/23/95                                            03/11/96
34 Patos Type: Irrigacao (Barragem da Farinha) (N=1)  49 Agua Branca Type: Irrigacao (Veado) (N=1), Date
Date: 11/23/95                                      12/20/96
35 Patos Type: Eletr (Trincheiras 1) (N=1) Date: 12/20/96    50 Agua Branca Type: ? (Sitio Cara) (N=1), Date: 1998
36 Patos Type: Eletr (Barragem da Farinha) (N=1) Date:
07/26/95
37 Patos Type: ? (Sitio San), (N=1) Date: 12/31/98
Region: Ubajara, Ceara
PAC                                                 FUMAC
51-53 Ubajara Type: Irrigacao (Tucuns) (N=3) Date:  61 Ibiapina Type: Irrigacao (Sta Tereza) (N=1) Date:
01/06/94                                            29/12/95
54 Ubajara Type: Trator (Tucuns) (N=1) Date: 27/06/95  62 Ibiapina Type: Eletr. (Sao Francisco) (N=1) Date:
18/12/95
55-57 Ubajara Type: lrrigacao (Nova Veneza) (N=3) Date   63 Ibiapina Type Eletr. (Alto do Major) (N=1) Date:
09/06/94                                            18/12/95
58 biapina Type: Trator (Sao Joao) (N=1) Date: 21/06/94    64 Ibiapina Type: Eletr. (Lagoinha) (N=1) Date: 18/12/95
59 lbiapina Type: Apetr. Agricola (Angelim) (N=1) Date:
01/10/95                                            _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
60 Ibiapina Type: Eletr. (Laranjeiras) (N=1) Date: 22/12/95
Region: Jaguaribe, Ceara
PAC                                                 FUMAC
65-67 Jaguaribe Type: Artesanato (N=3) Date: 13/12/94  77 Erere Type: Acude (Varjota) (N=1) Date: 21/01/94
68 Jaguaribe Type: lrrigacao (Curral Velho) (N=1) Date:  78 Erere Type: Barragem (Sitio Milagres) (N=1) Date:
19/12/94                                            21/01/94
69 Jaguaribe Type: Padaria (Mapua) (N=1) Date: 30/08/94   79 Erere Type: Cen. Ativ. Mul (Sede Distrital) (N=1) Date:
21/01/94
70 Jaguaribe Type: Bovinocultura (lIha Grande) (N=1)  80 Erere Type: Passg. Molhada (Remedio) (N=1) Date:
Date: 15/07/94                                      22/12/95
71 Jaguaribe Type: Irrigacao (lIha Grande) (N=1) Date:
13/04/94
72 Jaguaribe Type: Bovinocultura (Pedra Branca) (N=1)  81-83 Erere Type: Trator (Tome Vieira) (N=3) Date:
Date: 04/01/95                                      21/01/94
73 Jaguaribe Type: Bovinocultura (Genipapeiro) (N=1)  84 Erere Type: Eletr (Rajada) (N=1) Date: 20/12/95
Date: 16/06/95
74 Jaguaribe Type: Eletr.(Bom Sossego) (N=1) Date:  85 Iracema Type: Fab. Doce (Bastioes) (N=1) Date:
28/11/95                                            18/12/94
75 Jaguaribe Type: Trator (Sossego) (N=1) Date: 20/12/95   86-87 Iracema Type: Cen. Ativ. Mul (Sede) (N=2) Date:
05/04/94
76 Iracema Type: Casa de farinha (Varzea Alegre) (N=1)    88 Iracema Type: Trator (Pitombeira) (N=1) Date: 23/05/94
Date: 21/11/95
89-90 Iracema Type: Apetr.Agricola (Varzea Alegre) (N=2)
Date: 29/07/94
Source: Project database.



20                                      Annex B
Figure B2. Questionnaire Used in OED Audit Survey, December 1999
Dados de orientacao
Estado y microregiao                         Municipio
Categoria de subprojeto (IIP)                Tipo de subprojeto:
Valor do subprojeto (US$)                     Data de convenio [QO5]
Comunidade beneficiada                       Numero de beneficiarios [Q06]
Em relacao ao subprojeto
Como foi que os membros da Asociacao receberam
noticias/informacao do programa PAPP/NRDP?
O municipio/prefeito deu apoyo a Asociacao durante  [Q08]
o processo? (Sim/Nao)
Tem participacao dos ONGs? (SimlNao)         [Q09]
A Asociacao recebeu assistencia tecnica...
... na preparacao do subprojeto? (Sim/Nao)]  [Q10
... na execucao do subprojeto? (Sim/Nao)  [Q11]
... Para manutencao? (SimlNao)            [Q12]
O disenho do subprojeto foi bom? (Sim/Nao)   [Q13]
Quem fiz o disenho? (Unidade Tecnica, consultor)
Os membros da Asociacao participaram...
... com dinheiro? (SimlNao)               [015]
... com mao de obra? (SimlNao)            [Q16]
... com materiais? (Sim/Nao)              [Q17]
O subprojeto ainda esta funcionando? (SimlNao)    [Q18]
Quem e responsavel para a manutencao?
(concessionario, membros da Asociacao)
Os membros tem uma reserva de fondos para a  [020]
manutencao? (SimlNao)
Os membros pagan para o uso do... trator, casa da
farinha, etc (Sim/Nao)
Em relacao a Asociacao:
Nome da Asociacao                            PAC o FUMAC?
Si FUMAC, a Asociacao tem membros no
Conselho? [Q22]
Data de sua organizacao.                     Quantas pessoas sao inscrtas atualmente na
Asociacao? [Q24]
Quantos subprojetos foram financiados ate agora...
... via PAPPINRDP?                           [Q25]
... via outra fonte de fondos?               [Q26]
A Asociacao recebeu credito do banco? (Sim/Nao)   [Q27]
A vida das familias esta melhorando pelo resulto    [Q28]
dos subprojetos? (Sim/Nao)
Comentarios Adicionais
Numbers in square brackets refer to questionnaire iterns with results reported in Tables Bi and B2.



21                                     Annex B
Table B1. Poverty ranking of municipalities
Municipalities, State  Number of poor        Percent of families that  Percent of children in    Percent of children in    Percent of children in
families/1            are poor/l             households where       households with a      households with
head earns less than 1   male head who has   inadequate water
minimum salary/2      less than 1 year of    supply/2
schooling/2
Jaguaribe, CE                 4,681                  64.4                   72.3                   60.5                   61.3
Ibiapina, CE                  2,690                  63.7                   83.9                   57.5                   86.1
Ubajara, CE                   3,231                  63.5                   68.6                   55.2                   85.7
Agua Branca, PB               1,160                  62.0                   90.5                   61.2                   85.5
Bananeiras, PB                3,238                  60.0                   75.2                   74.5                   75.3
Alagoa Nova, PB               3,089                  58.4                   71.7                   58.0                   67.9
Esperanca, PB                 3,894                  56.9                   67.9                   54.2                   48.2
Iracema, CE                   2,362                  56.5                   67.5                   65.4                   66.4
Erere, CE                      810                   55.5                   85.9                   73.3                   99.4
Patos, PB                     9,510                  47.2                   47.7                   40.4                   20.3
/1 Source: 0 Mapa da Fome, Volume IlIl (Documento de Politica No. 17), Brasilia: IPEA, August 1993.
/2 Refers to children aged 0-6 years. Source: Municipios brasileiros: Cnancas e Suas Condicoes de Sobrevivencia (Censo Demografico de 1991), Brasilia:
UNICEF/IBGE, 1994.
CE Ceara, PB Paraiba.



22                                           Annex B
Table B2. Survey results
TOTAL         STATE            MICROREGION              PROJECT TYPE               PROCESSING
CHANNEL
[Questionnaire item number]                       (N=77)    Paraiba    Ceara   Brejo      Sertao      Electrification    Other project  PAC   FUMAC
(N=46)    (N=31)  (N=39)   (N=38)       (N=31)          (N=45)        (N=42)    (N=35)
(a) Wi#th respect to focus project
Project agreements signed before 01/01/96 (%) [Q05]  77      61        100      75        92          39             93            68         89
Number of beneficiaries (mean) [Q06]              64         71        52       58        71         42              82            46         85
Projects supported by mayor (%) [Q08]             71.4       84.7      51.6    79.4       63.1        93.5           55.5          50.0       97.1
Projects with NGO participation (%) [Q09]          18.1      28.2      3.2      23.8      13.1        29.3           11.1          11.9       25.7
Beneficiaries who received technical assistance...
... for project preparation (%) [Q10]             87.1       95.6      74.1    92.3       81.5       96.7            80.0          88.1       85.7
... .for project implementation (%) [Q11]         85.7       95.6      70.9    92.3       78.9       93.5            80.0          85.7       85.7
... for maintenance (%) [Q12]                     55.8       80.4      19.3    82.5       28.9       77.4            40.0          54.7       57.1
Project design rated "good" by beneficiaries (%) [Q13]  89.6  86.9     93.5    92.3       86.8        93.5           86.6          95.2       82.8
Beneficiaries who put in cash (%) [Q15]           7.7        2.1       16.1    2.5        13.1       3.2             11.1          9.5        5.7
Beneficiaries who put in labor (%) [Q16]          87.1       89.1      83.8    92.3       81.5       96.7            80.0          90.4       82.8
Beneficiaries who put in materials (%) [Q17]       16.8      17.3      16.1    12.8       21.5        3.2            26.6          14.2       20.0
Projects that are still operational (%) [Q18]     74.3       84.7      58.6    79.4       68.4        100.0          55.5          71.4       77.1
Benefiriaries who k.eep a maintenancne fund (%H) Q201  19.7  26.6      9.6      5.5.      1 .1        9.6            27.2          14.2       26.4
(b) With respect to associations
Association has members on municipal council (FUMAC  NA      NA         NA      NA        NA          NA              NA           NA         42.3
only) (%) [Q22]
Association organized more than three years before project 47  43      55       48        40          39             48            52         38
agreement was signed (%) [Q23, Q05]
Persons now registered with Association (mean) [Q24]  57     47        74       57        56         49              61            69         39
Subprojects financed with project funds (mean) [Q25]  1.4    1.5       1.2      1.4       1.4         1.2            1.4           1.5        1.2
Subprojects financed with other funds (mean) [Q26]  0.5      0.5       0.6      0.9       0.1         0.2            0.7           0.7        0.2
Associations that have received bank credit (%) [Q27]  23.3  28.2      16.1    35.9       10.5        22.5           24.4          40.4       2.8
Associations reporting that "life has improved" as a result   83.1  93.4  67.7    94.8    71.5        93.5           75.5          88.1       77.1
of project intervention (%) [Q28]
NA=Not applicable



23                                             Annex B
Table B3. Test of significant difference
Questionnaire items (p values)                        Difference       Difference      Difference      Difference
between          between brejo   between         between PAC and
Paraiba and      and sertao      electrification   FUMAC financing
Ceara            microregions    and other       channels
projects
(a) With respect to focus project
Number of beneficiaries (mean) [Q06]                  0.505 (NS)       0.673 (NS)       0.149 (NS)     0.238 (NS)
Projects supported by mayor (%) [Q08]                 0.002 (HS)       0.113 (NS)      0.001 (HS)      0.001 (HS)
Projects with NGO participation (%) [Q09]             0.005 (HS)       0.259 (NS)      0.048(S)        0.118 (NS)
Beneficiaries who received technical assistance...
... for project preparation (%) [Q10]                0.006 (HS)        0.161 (NS)      0.034(S)        0.757 (NS)
* . for project implementation (%) [Q111             0.002 (HS)        0.094 (NS)      0.099 (NS)      1.000 (NS)
... for maintenance (%) [Q12]                        0.001 (HS)        0.001 (HS)      0.001 (HS)      0.834 (NS)
Project design rated "good" by beneficiaries (%) [Ql 3]  0.353 (NS)    0.432 (NS)       0.337 (NS)     0.076 (NS)
Beneficiaries who put in cash (%) [Q15]               0.025 (S)        0.083 (NS)       0.210 (NS)     0.535 (NS)
Beneficiaries who put in labor (%) [Q16]              0.501 (NS)       0.161 (NS)       0.034 (S)      0.322 (NS)
Beneficiaries who put in materials (%) [Q17 ]         0.885 (NS)       0.335 (NS)       0.008 (HS)     0.505 (NS)
Projects that are still operational (%) [Q18]         0.009 (HS)       0.268 (NS)       0.001 (HS)     0.569 (NS)
Beneficiaries who keep a maintenance fund (%) [Q20]   0.067 (NS)       0.001 (HS)       0.061 (NS)     0.184 (NS)
(b) With respect to associations
Persons now registered with Association (mean) [Q24]  0.099 (NS)       0.949 (NS)       0.216 (NS)     0.006 (HS)
Projects financed via PAPP/PCPR (mean) [Q25]          0.1481 (NS)      0.813 (NS)       0.243 (NS)     0.088 (NS)
Projects financed with other funds (mean) [Q26]       0.5892 (NS)      0.002 (HS)       0.047 (S)      0.040 (S)
Associations who have received bank credit (%) [Q27]  0.217 (NS)       0.009 (HS)       0.851 (NS)     0.001 (HS)
Associations reporting that "life has improved" as a result   0.003 (HS)  0.005 (HS)    0.041 (S)      0.201 (NS)
of project intervention (%) [028]                     _                               1 _
S= Significant difference (p=<0.05). HS= Highly significant difference (p=<0.01). NS= No significant difference.
Comparison of percentages uses Chi-Square test. Comparison of means uses Student T test.



24                                            Annex B
Table B4. Test for significant correlation between variables
Correlation between       Hypothesized direction of    Result
respcnses to questionnaire   correlation
items (N=77)
Q18 vs. Q05               Negative                  Not significant
Q18 vs. Q08               Positive                  Phi coeff. =0.288 (p=0.02)
Q18 vs. Q09               Positive                  Not significant
Q18 vs. Q10               Positive                  Not significant
Q18 vs. Q11               Positive                  Not significant
Q18 vs. Q12               Positive                  Phi coeff. =0.248 (p=0.02)
Q18 vs. Q15               Positive                  Not significant
Q18 vs. Q20               Positive                  Not significant
Q18 vs. Q28               Positive                  Phi coeff. =0.455
(pQ<0.0l)
Q24 vs. Q25               Positive                  Not significant
Q25 vs. 026               Positive                  Not significant
Q26 vs. Q27               Positive                  Pearson =0.406 (p=<0.01)
See Table B2 for explanation of questionnaire items.
Note. Correlation of yes-no items was estimated using Phi coefficient, with Fisher Exact test of significance. Correlation between a
quantitative item and a yes-no item used Pearson coefficient, and T-test of significance.
Table B5. Project sequence and coverage
World Bank loan                           Coverage/d
Approval to closing    Value (USS million,   Direct beneficiaries  Project area
dates          current)/% of total  ('000 families)       ('000 km2)
project cost
Ceara
First cycle/a (L1488)     04/77 to 12/85        17.0 (34.2)            5.8                  4.8
First cycle/D (L1924)      12/80 to --/86       56.0 (34.3)            60.0                146.8
Second cycle (L2763)      10/86 to 12t95       122.0 (48.0)           122.8                144.3
Third cycle (L3918)       06/95 to 12/00
Paraiba               l
First cycle/c (L1537)    1 0379 to 09/86        24.0 (35.7)            7.4                  1.6
Second cycle (L2860)      06/87 to 12196        60.0 (48.4)            37.8                25.6
Third cycle (L4251)       11/97 to 06/03
Northeast
First cycle                  12/75 to          456.5 (35.0)           279.8               499.4
Second cycle                 04/85 to          826.7 (48.0)           572.5                925.6
Third cycle                  06/95 to     r
Source: Tendler, 1993, op. cit.
First cycle: POLONORDESTE (Program of Integrated Development for the Northeast) ; Second cycle: PAPP (Program of
Assistance to the Small Farmer); Third cycle: NRDP (Northeast Rural Development Program)
/a Ibiapaba
/b Follow on to /a
/c Brejo
Id Appraisal estimate



25                                            Annex B
Table B6. Project results (post-1993 reformulation)
Ceara (L2763)                 Paraiba (L2860)
Expected         Actual        Expected         Actual
Project cost                              US$254.3m/a      US$156.5m      US$123.9m/a     US$96.Om
N of subprojects implemented                  2,000           3,025           920           2,308
N of beneficiary families                    50,000         208,830/b       23,000          112,194
Spending per subproject                    Not specified   US$51,736      Not specified   US$41,594
Spending per beneficiary family            Not specified     US$749       Not specified     US$856
FUMAC projects/All projects                Not specified      11%         Not specified      37%
N of municipalities covered                    176            176             171             171
Distribution of subprojects by type:
Small rural infrastructure                Not applicable      56%         Not applicable     74%
Productive                                Not applicable      39%         Not applicable     23%
Social                                    Not applicable       5%         Not applicable      3%
Beneficiary contribution                     10-20%       Not specified/c   10-20%           5%/d
Source: Implementation completion reports.
/a Original appraisal estimate (before reformulation)
/b From Table 15 in Paraiba ICR. Number of beneficiaries is given as 178,800 on p. 15 of Ceara ICR (which was written one year
earlier, possibly before full results were in)
/c Subsumed under state contribution (US$46.2m)
/d Table 7, p. 61, Paraiba ICR.
Subproject cost ceiling supposed to be US$40,000 which does not tally with above table-maybe because of exchange rate
fluctuations.






27                                   Annex C
Comments from the Government
Translation from the original in Portuguese
STATE OF CEARA
SECRETARIAT OF PLANNING AND COORDINATION
Our ref:    Oficio GS. No. 438/00                                           Fortaleza
June 14, 2000
Mr. Ridley Nelson
Principal Evaluation Officer
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
We acknowledge receipt of your communication of May 15 last accompanying a draft version of
the Perfonnance Audit Report on Brazil's Northeast Rural Development Program, one component of
which was the Small Farmer Support Program, the subject of Loan Agreement No. 2763-BR between the
Government of Brazil and the World Bank.
Despite the fact that the sample investigated by the performance evaluation mission was not as
representative as it might have been, the relevance of its findings is unquestionable. However, we believe
there are a number of points worth clarifying and explaining, in the interests of ensuring that the
evaluator's final conclusions have the greatest possible credibility.
Our main interest was in the analysis of the issues of efficacy and sustainability: Did the
project achieve its stated objectives, and are the results of the subprojects financed likely to last? We
regard these as two difficult questions, and would like to make the following observations:
1.           Efficacy (paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the PAR):On the question whether the stated
objectives were achieved, the evaluator takes the position that Ceara did not meet the original target, to
provide assistance for 122,800 families, although he makes clear that the reformulated target was
exceeded more than fourfold (para. 3.3). On the question whether coverage varied by region (para. 3.4),
doubt is cast on the reliability of the physical and financial performance data stored in the project
database.
Our comments:In the first case, we believe there has been some confusion in the
interpretation of project figures: Table 2 of the Report shows the final number of beneficiary families as
208,830, which is more than twice the original target.
In the second case, there appears to have been an exchange of data: the information in
Table 3 of the Report does not coincide at all with what is in the project database. Our analysis of project



28                                       Annex C
execution data for 1994 and 1995 shows the av7erage number of beneficiaries per project to be very close
to what the Report gives for Paraiba.
2.             Sustainability (paragraphs U.1, 5.4, 5.5): The conclusion reached was that only 59% of
subprojects were still working in Ceara. The reasons given were the higher mean age of subprojects there
and the lower share of electrification (19%) in total investments (para. 5.1). On the other hand, on the
question whether sustainability varied according to type of subproject (para. 5.4), the performance audit
survey found that all electrification projects were in working order, while productive subprojects,
accounting for 39% of the total in Ceara, had a poor record, with just over half in working order, a
consequence of the prolonged drought that started in 1996.
Our comments:   According to the Small Farmer Support Program database, after reformulation of the
project in September 1993, a total of 3,025 subprojects were carried out. These included 1,678
electrification subprojects (or 55.5% of the totil), which were approved and launched in 1995, the last
year of the project. This percentage, added to half the percentage of productive subprojects (19.5%) in
working order and to the group of social subprojects, justify an inference that approximately 80% of all
subprojects were operating satisfactorily, despite the longer period of exposure to mishaps and to the
effects of persistent drought.
Correction of these figures in the body of the Report will necessitate corresponding
changes in paragraph 9.3.
Yours truly,
Isl (illegible)                                    Is!   (illegible)
M6nica Clark Nunes Cavalcante                      Pedro Sisnando Leite
Secretary of Planning and Coordination             Secretary of Rural Development



29                                   Annex C
GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF PARAIBA
SECRETARIAT OF PLANNING
Office of the Secretary
Our ref:        Oficio GS/SEPLAN/N
Joao Pessoa
June 15, 2000
Mr. Ridley Nelson
Sector and Thematic Evaluations Group
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
In response to your communication of May 15, 2000, we attach herewith comments on
the Project Performance Audit Report prepared by Task Manager John Heath and team after their mission
to the State of Paraiba in December 1999.
We are honored to see Paraiba selected as a subject of study in connection with the Rural
Poverty Reduction Program. We would like to take advantage of the opportunity to mark our successes in
connection with the project audited. At the same time, we believe that if we focus on the weak points in
our performance we will be in a better position to make the necessary rectifications and thus equip
ourselves better to achieve our shared goal of reducing the chronic, grim poverty affecting the Brazilian
Northeast.
The accompanying pages summarize our conclusions, which take into account the recent
information provided by the World Bank, and indicate our interest and satisfaction in being able to
participate in the ongoing discussion on this broad and complex topic.
We are copying these comments to the Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN),
Ministry of Planning, to enable it to take part in any ensuing discussions and decisions.
Yours truly,
/s/ Mario Silveira
Secretary



30                                  Annex C
GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF PARAIBA
SECRETARIAT OF PLANNING
Office of the Secretary
As a party to Loan Agreement No. 4251-BR signed on February 16, 1998 between the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Devzlopment and the State of Paraiba, and mindful of its
responsibility to be pro-active and transparent in its management of public affairs, the Government of the
State, through its Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN-PB), is intent on maintaining a system of planning
that will provide an institutionally and technically strong organization for combating poverty in the State
through community-based instruments and mechanisms of communication and collaboration. The
following short-tern, specific objectives will b. of assistance in achieving that longer-term, general goal:
Objective 1:     To structure and organize the technical and administrative management system
supporting Project Cooperate. The aim will be to increase its effectiveness and efficiency as regards
formulation, execution, and evaluation of the components of the Rural Poverty Reduction Project (Paraiba
State).
Objective 2:     To design and put into effect a training program that will improve the organizational
and management capabilities of rural communities targeted by the Rural Poverty Reduction Project.
Objective 3:     To support public sector institutional development, by fostering and promoting
organizational changes by public sector planning entities with responsibilities for activities associated
with development and the mitigation of rural poverty.
Objective 4:     To ensure that governmental activities aimed at combating rural poverty and social
exclusion are consistent at all times with the guidelines set out in the Sustainable Development Plan of the
State of Paraiba and its Goals Program.
Objective 5:     To carry out assessment studies on the results and impacts of institutional
development programs in districts covered by the governmental rural action program.
Objective 6:     To reduce present inequities and maintain a consistent process of poverty reduction
in the State.
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY:This strategy will incorporate: implementation of the
Rural Poverty Reduction Project; upgrading of ihe State's institutional capabilities; and identification and
formulation of new sustainable development programs, improvement of public sector management
systems, and decentralization of the decision-making process as it affects identification and design of new
projects conducive to the promotion of sustainable development.
In 1996, the State of Paraiba drDw up a Sustainable Development Plan based on
government, private sector, and civil society action up to the year 2010. This Plan enunciated the
development strategies to be followed during that period, and indicated the principles that were to guide
both the government sector and society as a whole and were to be translated into priority programs and
projects.



31                                  Annex C
Rural Poverty Reduction Project components need to be inter-related and to complement
one another if their outcome is to make a positive contribution to sustainable municipal, regional, and
state development in a nationwide and global context.
At the municipal level, Project activities planning should be focused on the whole
complex of local communities, with a view to fostering a habit of consultation and cooperation among
them, as a basis for future experimentation with a process of harmonious, integrated development. In
addition to providing community members with a broader vision of the problems of their own municipal
district or region, this strategy will give them opportunities to interact with other localities, enhancing
inter-group knowledge, familiarity with the collective learning process, and exchanges of experience.
Activities planning for the Project should generate technical recommendations on methods of
eliciting social participation in needs assessment, and on methods of formulating and then managing
subprojects. The general aim here should be to use technical, physical, and financial resources more
rationally, and the specific aim to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of this Project. This should
involve the development of simple participatory planning processes that will result in substantive
subprojects tailored to local potentialities and able to attract local communities and institutions into taking
part in their implementation and permanent upkeep.
Essential in this effort will be strategic support in the form of partnerships with the various
institutions, both governmental and non-governmental, active in the typical municipal district: religious
associations, organizations that provide services for their members, labor unions, the executive,
legislative, and judicial powers, banking institutions, etc. Equally important will be the participation of
representatives of civil society; this is essential to a clear and broad-based vision of local realities and of
the roads that must be followed to achieve sustainable development and create conditions conducive to
successful implementation of plans.
The Program in Paraiba State
During the previous and current periods of office, the State Government has taken major
steps to ensure Project quality levels. For instance:
1. Emphasis on development with a more emphatic rural focus, strengthening and assigning priority to
activities focused on those living from rural pursuits. Encouragement of more and better organization
in public sector management, and a more concerted effort on the part of municipal governments,
small farmers, and rural communities to find solutions to current problems.
2. With World Bank approval, the Small Farmers Support Program was expanded to cover 109 of the
State's then 171 municipal districts.
3. Incentives in the form of investments and technical support for all municipalities wishing to
strengthen both community and municipal government capabilities.
4. Investment in and upgrading of the administrative and managerial structure of the Project Technical
Unit, in view of its direct and vitally important links to small farmers.



32                                   Annex C
5. Support for the municipal governments participating in the Project, to improve their performance and
effectiveness.
6. Assignment of investment priority to infrastructure projects, since they are essential to satisfaction of
the basic requirements that facilitate the inter-community contacts without which subsequent social
and productive projects cannot be successfully executed and then maintained.
7. Encouragement of broader-based participation by communities in identifying the benefits they
consider to have the highest priority in their districts.
8. Encouragement of municipal government backing and support for subprojects before, during, and
after their implementation.
9. Investment in supporting, appraising, supervising, and evaluating subprojects, with a view to
obtaining more benefits with less investment while still ensuring subproject sustainability.
10. Cost-benefit analysis of subprojects.
i 1. Re-thinking of the current approach to the role and operations of municipal councils.
It is worthwhile noting that the organizati;onal advantage suggested by the formation of municipal
councils might be compromised by unforeseeable factors with a possible impact on the quality of results.
The involvement of municipal officials can be either a stimulus or hindrance in the access channels
available to communities for expression of their demands. They are able to do this by submitting
subproject proposals, which are analyzed, when the channel is FUMAC, by a municipal council, and
either selected or notfor presentation to Project Cooperate. In our opinion, the FUMAC solution needs a
longer period of study, it requires an advanceel community management structure which should be tested
more thoroughly.
Given the success Paraiba has achieved in implementing development activities through use of the
procedures indicated above, and its interest in successes and quality results that will prove replicable and
capable of ensuring the future viability of the whole investment process, we suggest more emphasis on
the following:
*  Encouragement of training for cooperative entities and of continuation of collective activities in
existing associations.
*  Characterization of human and social capital as the true foundation of all action to combat
poverty.
*  Technical, administrative, and financial management, monitoring, and operation of the State's
Rural Poverty Reduction Project.
*  Effectiveness and efficiency of comm anity subprojects in cost-benefit terms.
*  Involving rural communities in all stages of the Project: selection, preparation, execution,
operation, and subsequent refining of community subprojects, with a focus on ensuring their
sustainability.



33                                   Annex C
* Encouraging rural communities to become independent managers of the benefits they achieve
and upgrade their social and economic performance, so that they can add value to those
achievements, increase their income streams, and improve their standard of living.
* Efficiency in the coordination and integration of government action in pursuit of the central
objective of combating rural poverty.
* Encouragement of partnerships in the management of public interests.
* Strengthening of local development through actions linked to state, regional, national, and
international aims and priorities.
* Periodic re-evaluation of the status and relevance of activities introduced.
* Motivation of communities to participate and accept social responsibility, as an extension of the
individual's duties and obligations arising out of the daily realities of democratic life.
* Development of indicators to provide a basis for the qualitative evaluation of results achieved.
* Formulation of technical training proposals and development of alternative training methods.
* Coordination of the formulation, negotiation, and implementation of sustainable regional
development projects to combat rural poverty.
* Proposals for alternatives to be considered as State counterpart contributions.
* Awareness of the need to plan next steps in the light of changing situations and priorities. For
example: Subproject categories: water infrastructure (watershed protection, treatment, supply,
distribution, etc.); social and productive (irrigation, goat farming, etc.).
Introduction and enforcement of regulations governing time limits for rendering of accounts
following assignment of land plots.
* Use of different teams for different phases of activity: community sensitization, subproject
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation.
Prompted by the Project Performance Audit Report, which we regard as a solidly argued and
impartial document that is valuable for planning purposes, we would like to suggest an early round of
meetings between the financing institutions and the Government to discuss the agreement now in force in
the State of Paraiba. We believe this offers the best prospects for ensuring optimum resource allocation.



34                                  Annex C
GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF PARAIBA
SECRETARIAT OF PLANNING
PROJECT COOPERATE
Address:      BR 230, Km 14, S/N, Estrada de Cabedelo
58310-000, Cabedelo, Paraiba, Brazil
Tel: (083) 246.8757
Fax: (083) 246 7858 PABX
(083) 246 8644
FAX MESSAGE
June 14, 2000
Antonio Gustavo Rodrigues                       SEAIN
61.225.4022                                     Brasilia/DF
Jose Williams F. Gouveia                        Coordinator-General
In response to your fax message 967 of June 8, 2000, kindly allow me to note that: With
less than two years at the head of PROJECT COOPERATE, we did not take part in the execution of Loan
Agreement 2860-BR or in negotiation of the Agreement now in progress (4251-BR). However, against a
background of past experience, and drawing on the institutional memory of the Technical Unit as well as
the personal memory of Dr. Raimundo Caminha, the World Bank Representative in Recife, we are in a
position to comment on some of the points raised in the Performance Audit Report on the Northeast Rural
Development Program (Paraiba Project), a document dated May 15, 2000.
The change of direction, following reformulation of the program in 1993, by introducing a method of
proceeding that called for every community to become involved in solving its own problems, saved
this project from failure and converted it into a successful operation.
The demand from communities for infrastructure works rectified an earlier mistake, namely an
emphasis on implementing productive subprojects that were intended to create jobs and sources of
income but failed to give due importance to the question of subproject sustainability. Families in
communities that possessed energy, water, telephone, good access, properly designed latrines, a
school, etc. did manage, however, on their own initiative, to develop ways of producing that enabled
them to obtain production loans from local banks and in the process to become the best re-payers of
such obligations. In our view, since there has been considerable progress with infrastructure projects,
the time has come to make greater and more concerted efforts to engage in productive subprojects,
but without relaxing the sustainability requirement and focusing on the family as the production unit.
* The execution of subprojects in partnership with community entities not only reduced the cost of
works significantly and guaranteed their quality through efficient monitoring by the Supervision
Committee, but also fostered a feeling of ownership among the members of each community, thereby
helping to build social capital.



35                                  Annex C
* We believe that the choice of mono-phase electrification equipment was appropriate for the target
population groups. It allowed installation of 15 kVA per family, more than sufficient to run a
productive project (e.g. small irrigation system, commodity processing plant, small factory).
Instead of proving a false economy, this choice actually led to significant savings. Choice of the
triple-phase system, favored in the past, in addition to wasting power, produced technical situations
with damaging consequences for the system. Capacity can be increased over time, in step with the
growth of the family/community, allowing the system to accommodate increased demand.
* Mistakes made in implementation of the reformulated program doubtless laid the foundations for the
more successful execution of the second Loan Agreement. Community counterpart contributions, for
example, take the form of community work efforts, which, in addition to moving the implementation
process forward, reduce subproject costs, and increase the stock of social capital.
* The 8% of loan proceeds allocated to coverage of expenditure on technical projects should be used
cautiously. When these resources are made available to the community, an opportunity is lost for it to
mobilize equivalent resources itself and to participate actively in defining and planning the particular
project and its components. (The raffle of a goat, a bingo game, organization of the type of small
cooperative group known as a vaquinha all add to the sense of solidarity within a community.) Those
who see a benefit in the availability of these resources claim that it removes the community from the
reach of "political figures." While this is certainly a matter that needs to be confronted, in the case of
a program such as this it is impossible to ignore the political agent. Ultimately, every member of the
management organ of a community entity is a political agent, and appointment of its chairman a
"project" to be negotiated. What does need to be eradicated is unscrupulous politicking. If that
problem were eliminated, the allocation of these resources could be justified, provided they are used
sparingly. The more of these funds that can be saved, the more beneficiary families there will be.
e  Other resources that should also be carefully managed are those earmarked for consulting services
and training. Training should be objective and its subject-matter clearly necessary. Consultants
should be used only to cover any gaps in Technical Unit capabilities. The work done by competent
internal technical staff is better; it is also cheaper, which, here too, means more beneficiary poor
families.
*  Decentralization, based on partnerships with well-organized community entities that operate through
PAC, FUMAC, and FUMA-P channels, is so advantageous that hasty, careless introduction of it must
be avoided at all costs. This could well be the secret behind the building up of significant social
capital by communities in the State of Paraiba.
*  The re-establishment of full democracy, Brazil's current economic stability, the financial equilibrium
the State of Paraiba is now enjoying, the policy agenda renewal that has accompanied the arrival in
office of Jose Maranhao, the innovations introduced by the World Bank to speed up disbursements,
and the competence of our own technical personnel are factors that have coalesced into the scenario
which has made Project Cooperate highly satisfactory to the World Bank, and which encourages us to
work even harder.
Isl (illegible)
Jose Williams de Freitas Gouveia
Coordinator-General






MAP SECTION






NT$tw RURAL .EEOMN   ..... rtCAR
AJCUTRAt P0TENAL DnE)Y  PE$4DARLE RAINfALL
A Il; B R A Z I L 7NORTHfAS
J= 5 = t+ A X s '\4 >; i s.- j. -s - i z-- .--. \ ~~~~~~~AAAM EJ.R I C A -
5-
C'''--_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
(4                   S4  C I0m  
o 25 5~~~~~~~~~~~0              7539PERNAM      n noin onoe
,7b  COO CeAoels ya s eKce ss { b sor >  zffnral vae ol na    t  d   a d L   wewdf on .  f   i   >   <  1 7
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.-, p-0. 40                         mp. Sal.-eV 39.8






IBRD 20398
38   /                               31      ~~~~~~~~B R A  Z I L                                                                                                '          9-'-"5''!':  
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL DEFINED BY DEPENDABLE RAINFALL
CLASSIFICATION   DESCRIPTION.                                     ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS 
CEARA                        /VERY ARID                                       NOT SUITED FOR RAINPED AGRICULTURE          -   SELECTED ROADS                                                                     AI;
ARID            LIMITED SUITABILITY FOR RAN-FED AGRICULTURE       SATCPIL
/                      ~    ~~~~~~~~SEMI ARID  PRODUCTION POSSIRLE fOR CROPS REQUIRING  S NTOA   AIA                                             5~c~'A
A 3 TO R MONTHS GROWIND SEASON            _       NI MAN CEP AL BOUNDARIES .
W WET DRY              PRODUCTION POSSIBLE FOR CROPS              -      STATE BOUNDARIES
REUR [NO U GOOD LEVEL OF MOISTURE
ADEQUACY TURING S OR MORE MONTHSEGONBUDR
PECINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES'                                                 i
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
A
2-       ~              ~              ~              ~              ~             ~             -
CEARA     - '                '       '       Y* 
10OGRANGE
00NORTE
JOAO 
P A R A   8   A          PEBSOASV 
smses~3d 32 o ;S@  , , \RU     , i. ;     _
PERNAMBUECO
COLOM 1BIA       X~       F~THP 
~~~  N C., 111I1                                                        A                 VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GY  TUUA
BR AZ I L
PERU       I.SR,I
3, A&&Y0                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOLIVIA -  BRASSIIAS
PERNAMBUCO                                                                                                                                                                                           - 
U    25   SE   PS    ED                                                  -- 0I'' 
KILOMETERS                                                            H     I /  ARGA37V..Y1V
Z t Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ARGENTIN'        CU
W~                                                   37~                                                                                                     3                                                 JR'5HY 
MARCH S9E7



