D-owuumt- of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
./ AL ph2. -
Report No. 6135-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
September 26, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This dccument has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  Cruzeiro(Cr$)/Cruzado(Cz$) 11
US$1.00               2        Cr$8,891 2/
Cr$1.00               -        US$0.000112 2/
Cr$l million                   US$112 2,
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                            -   January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Develcpment Program             =   April 1 to March 31
Project                                         =   April 1 to March 31
1/ A new currency unit, the Cruzado (Cz$), equal to 1,000 cruzeiros (the former
currency), was introduced on February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate of
US$1.00=Cz$13.80. The cruzeiro will continue to be legal tender until March
1, 1987, but began being devalued against the Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45%
on February 28, 1986, and will continue to be devalued at that rate until it
goes out of use.
2/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (November/December 1985)



FOR OFMFCUIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BNDES          -  Banco Nacional de Desenvo'vimento Economico e Social
(National Bank for Economic and Social Development)
CAGE-CE        -  Companhia de Agua e Esgotos do Ceara
(Ceara State Water and Sewage Comnpany
CEASA-CE       -  Centrais de Abastecimento do Ceara
(Ceara State Food Supply Centers)
CEPA-CE        -  Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola-Ceara
(State Agricultural Planning Commission-Ceara)
COBAL          -  Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Brazilian Food Company)
CODAGRO        -  Companhia Cearense de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario
(Ceara State Agricultural Development Company)
CPATSA         -  Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid Tropics)
DNOCS          -  Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra Secas
(National Department of Works Against Droughts)
EMATER-CE      -  Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural do Ceara
(Ceara State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA        -  Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
FINSOCIAL      -  Fundo de Investimento Social
(Social Investment Fund)
IC             -  Comissao Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
ICM            -  Imposto sobre a Circulacao de Mercadorias
(Value Added Tax on Product Circulation)
INCRA          -  Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Land Reform Institute)
ITER-CE        -  Institito de Terra do Ceara
(Cearz State Land Institute)
LDP            -  Local Development Project
MINTER         -  Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of the Interior)
This document has a .estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorit-tion.



NRDP           -  Northeast Rural Development Program
OCEC           -  Organizacao de Cooperativas do Estado do Ceara
(Ceara State Organization of Cooperatives)
OTh            -  Obrigacoes do Tesoro Nacional
(Obligations of the National Treasury)
POLONORDESTE   -  Programa de DesenvoLvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast)
PROTERRA       -  Programa de Redistribuicao de Terras e de Estimulo a
Agro-lndustria do Norte e do Nordeste
(Land Redistribution and Agroindustrial Modernization Program
for the North and the Northeast)
RDC            -  Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SAAB-CE        -  Secretaria de Agricultura e Abastecimento do Estado do Ceara
(Ceara State Secretariat of Agriculture)
SCC            -  Comissao de Coordenacao Estadual
(State Coordinating Commission)
SEPLAN-CE      -  Secretaria de Planejamento do Estado do Ceara
(Ceara State Secretariat of Planning)
SERTANEJO      -  Programa Especial de Apolo do Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of the Semi-Arid
Region of the Northeast)
SIMA           -  Sistema de Informacao de Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing and Information System)
SOES-CE        -  Secretaria de Obras e Servicos do Estado do Ceara
(Ceara State Secretariat of Works and Services)
SOEC           -  Superintendencia de Obras do Estado do Ceara
(Ceara State Superintendency of Works)
SRDC           -  Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
SUDENE         -  Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
Table of Contents
Page
I,  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...................................      1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ...........
Agriculture in the National Economy                             3
The Rural Northeast                                             3
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast...      4
Experience with Past Bank Lending                               4
The State of Ceara                                              5
II.  THE PROJECT                                                         6
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement                       6
Pro3ect Area                                                    7
Project Objectives and Description                              7
Water Resource Development                                 7
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production            8
Agricultural  Extension                                    8
Rural Investment Credit                                    8
Marketing Services 8.......8
Support to Small Rural Communities                         8
Project Administration and Training        ................  9
Land Tenure Improvement  *       ....                           9
Project Organization and Impiementation                         9
Federal and Regional Levels                                9
State and Local Levels  ...9
Annual Planning and Budgeting                             10
Accounts and Auditing                ....                 10
Operating Agreements  ....... ................. .......    10
Monitoring and Evaluation  ..........................    1')
Project Cost                      .                            11
Financing Plan ll
On-lending Terms ll
Procurement  ...      .....  ................o...              12
Disbursements                                                  13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during November/December 1985. Ine mission comprised Messrs. J.P.
Delsalle, A. Berthier, H. von Pogrell, D. Mitchnik (LCPAB), P. Lucani
(FAO/CP), J. Vivas and M. Gil (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Cu.tinued)
Pae
Project Benefits and Justification ......      .................  14
Production, Benefits and Farm incomes ..................       14
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact         ........................  14
Economic Analysis ........ ....    ...................... ....  15
Project Risks                 .............                      15
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION       ..........         15
ANNEX 1 PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..0............      .................    18
Table 1.1 State Structure of Land Holdings       ...............    26
Table 1.2 Evolution of State Agricultural Production .....    27
Table 1.3 Project Priority Areas and Beneficiary
Distribution ....       ...............................  28
Table 1.4 List of Municipalities in the Project Area  .....    29
Table 1.5 Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities   ......    31
Table 1.6 Summary Account by Project Component ...........       32
Table 1.7 Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements 0004000       34
Table 1.8 Allocation of Loan Proceeds           ...              35
ANNEX 2 PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................       36
Table 2.1 List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies ...       39
Chart 1  Project Coordination and Management Chart ......    40
Chart 2   Implementation Schedule         ........................    41
ANNEX 3  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS ....................    42
Table 3.1 Total Annual Area, Marketable Production and
Value of Major Crops and Livestock without
Project and at Full Development        ................    44
Table 3.2 Characteristics of Illustrative Farm Models Used
in Financial and Economic Analyses       .............    45
Table 3.3 Estimated Areas and Yields of Major Crops at Farm
Level without Project and at Full Development ..    46
Table 3.4 Project Economic Analysis .....       .................    49
Table 3.5 Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic
Analysis evvwvsvv***v****s-o                          50
Table 3.6 Project Sensitivity Analysis        ...................  51
ANNEX 4 DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE P^OJECr FILE .............       52
MAPS:  IBRD 18686 - Yearly Land Adjudication Operations
IBRD 19516 - State of Ceara and Project Area
IBERD 19653 - Agricultural Potential Defined by
Dependable Rainfall



NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executing
Agencutsi            The Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA-CE) within
the Secretariat of Planning of the State of Ceara
(SEPLAN-CE).
Amotnt:              US$122 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayable In 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:       Some 122,800 low-income families operating farms of up
to 100 ha in all municipalities of the State of
Ceara, except those urban municipalities of the capital
city, would directly benefit from the project.
Project
Description:         The proposed project is the sixth in a series of
projects within the new Northeast Rural Development
Program (NRDP). The project objectives are to: (a)
increase agriculcural production and productivity in
the State of Ceara; (b) generate employment
opportunities for low-income rural families; (c)
increase Ceara's institutional capacity to provide
efficient agricultural services for small farmers; and
(d) promote water resource development and technology
generation and diffusion to decrease swzll farmer
vulnerability to recurring droughts. It would support
water resource development for both agriculture and
domestic use, fish hatcheries, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, investment credit, marketing
services, funding for community subprojects and project
administration and training.
Risks:               Project risks include:  (a) possible inefficient
delivery of project services; (b) lack of sufficient
inter-institutional cooperation; (c) delays and
shortfalls in counterpart funding; (d) insecurity of
land tenure; and (e) recurring drought conditions. The
project has been designed to minimize these risks.



-2-
Estimated Costs:
Local       Foreign    Total
---      US$ Million -----
A.  Water Resource Development               12.9        3.8          16.7
B. Agricultural Research and Basic Seed
Production                             6.4         0.6           7.0
C.  Agricultural Extension                  51.3         3.0          54.3
D.  Rural Investment Credit                  57.2       10.1          67.3
E.  Marketing Services                       2.0         0.5           2-5
F.  Support to Small Rural Communities    35.8           5.6          41.4
G.  Project Administration and Training   23.1           0.8          23.9
Total Baseline Costs                        188.7       24.4         213.1
Physical Contingencies                        3.6        0.9           4.5
Price Contingencies                         34.2         2.5          36.7
Total Project Costs                        226.5        27.8         254.3 1/
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
-… US$ Million------
Government                              132.3         -           132.3
IBRD                                     94.2        27.8         122.0
TOTAL                                   226.5        27.8         254.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:  1987   1988    1989    1990    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
--…---------…---------- US$ Million -…--------------- -
Annual     9.82/ 10.3    16.5    18.4    20.8   19.4   15.8    6.4    4.6
Cumulative 9.8   20.1    36.6    55.0    75.8   95.2  111.0  117.6  122.0
Rate of Return:  13%
Maps:   IBRD 18686, 19516, and 19653
1/ Including about US$10.9 million of local taxes.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$ 5.0 million into the Special Account.



- 3 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01      Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contrlbutor to GDP. In 1970,
agriculture accounted for 12X of GDP, 442 of the economically active population
and 67X of total exports. In 1984, these figures were 13X, 302 and 38%,
respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was rapid expansion in Brazil's
agriculture (52 per annum); during the recession in the early 1980s, output and
investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
2.02      The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply disparate
rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual crops. The most
dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy capital investment or
high levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus, tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane on
large commercial farms in central and southern Brazil. Much slower growth
rates, and in some cases declines, were recorded for such staple food crops as
rice, maize, wheat, beans, manioc and potatoes.
2.03      These trends in agricultural output were reflected in agricultural
trade. In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports depended heavily
on soy products, orange juice, tobacco, coe:oa and sugar. Of total agricultural
exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 152 were accounted fir by these five
crops. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of Brazil's US$9.S3 billion of
agricultural exports. After 1980, the v!lue of agricultural exports hardly grew
at all, except in 1984, when coffee and orange juice were aided by highly
;avorable price movements.
The Rural Northeast
2.04      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara,
Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia, the northern
portion of Minas Gerais, and the island of Fernanao do Noronha, with a total
area of over 1.5 million km2 (18% of the country's total area). The Northeast
has been the nation's foremost problem region since the late 1800s.
2.05      Drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land distribution, and limited
employment opportunities have resulted in high levels of pokverty and
underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated from the
region, partially in response to five years of severe drought (1979 to 1983).
In 1980, the Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about 292 of the
country's total), growing at 2.2% per annum with a population density of 22.5
inhabitants per km2. Half the population lives in rural areas and over 50% of
the work force is engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is highly
concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70X of all farms) occupy less than 62 of the
farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all farms) occupy more than 402 of the farm
area. Rural incomes are very low. In 1980, over 802 of the rural population
earned less than one minimum salary (about US$675 annually, or 352 of the
national average).
2.06      The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sisal, cassava,



-4 -
sugar and cotton) represent signific nt shares of national production.  The zota
da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains one-third of the regional
popuLation and a major proportion of industry and plantation agriculture. The
agreste, a transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas, is dominated by
mixed farming, as well as the rataing of cattle. The sparsely populated
semi-arid sertao is the largest of the subregions and the most vulnerable to
periodic droughts.
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
2.07      Until the 1950s, most Government interventions in the rural Northeast
were limited to drought relief works, emergency programs and incentives for
export crops. The slow pace of sociceconomic development and the. need for
improved regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of the Superintendency
for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE was originally
responsible for coordination of public investment, drought emergency measures
and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new private investment.
Initiative for regional policy formulation was transferred to various Federal
agencies in the 1970s with SVDENE continuing to play an important role in the
coordi.nation of federally funded special rural programs.
2.08      The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The first
was based on the integrated development of selected subregions. It included the
Bank-assisted Development Program for Integrated Areas of the P rtheast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), and the Special Program of
Support for Poor Populations of the Sugar Growing Zones. The second approach
was concerned with alleviating the effects of drought. It included several
parallel programs such as the Water Resources Use Program (PROHIDRO), the
Agricultural Research Program for the Semi-Arid Tropics,and the Drought
Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal public irrigation projects.
2.09      Planning for a major new development initiative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first two
approaches in alleviating rural poverty had been limited. The new initiative is
to be implemented through a series of sectoral projcts in such areas as land
tenure, federal irrigation, health, educat: )n and integrated rural development.
The Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) is a 15-year program based upon a
comprehensive regional policy framework, subsectoral strategy guidelines,
multiyear state rural investment plans and the integration of all rural special
programs under unified planning and implementation procedures.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
2.10      The Bank has made 38 loans, totalling US$2,897.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. Many of these loans were for
projects with nation-wide impact, but about eighteen were for variou.
settlement, irrigation and rural development projects in the Northeast3/e  The
A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank Country
Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development Programs for the
Northeast, Washington, D.C., 1983.



- 5 -
Project Performance Audit Report for the Alto Turi Land Settlement Project (Loan
853-BR) showed that the project raised settler incomes beyond expectations, but
was less successful in the areas of environmental protection, community
organization, and strengthening of cooperatives. The Project Performance Audit
Report for the Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR) showed that,
despite implementation delays due to design changes and social tension in the
area, beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original estimates and small
farmers were capable of moving successfully from subsistence to commercial
agriculture.
2.11      Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural development
projects located in eight Northeast states. Approved from 1976 to 1983, six of
the projects are still being executed; the other four have been substantially
completed. Implementation has improved over the years, especially in project
planning and agency coordination. All Trojects have experienced implementation
and disbursement delays, mainly because of the unusually severe and prolonged
1979-83 drought, delays in providing local funds, limited execution capacity for
carrying out small-scale irrigation activities and initial lags in the
generation of drought-resistant technology for small farmers. These problems
were addressed during the preparation of the NRDP.
The State of Ceara
2.12      Location and Natural Features.  With a total area of about 148,000
km2, Ceara is the fourth largest state in the Northeast (Map IBRD 19516).
Average annual rainfall ranges from about 1,600 mm in the highlands (serras) to
about 660 mm in the drought-prone semi-arid zone (sertao) (para. 2.06), which
covers half of the State's land area. The wide range of soil types found in the
State may be classified from fertile in the southern region, in several humid
highland areas and a few river valleys, to relatively infertile in the coastal
region.
2.13      Economic and Social Conditions.  Some 53% of the total population of
about 5.3 million live in small towi.s and cities.  Agriculture is the main
economic activity; it employs about 56% of the State's labor force and accounts
for 27% of the State GDP. Fortaleza, the capital city, has a population of over
one million and accounts for the bulk of the State's light industry. Average
per capita income in the rural areas is one of the lowest in the Northeast. As
in other rural areas of the Northeast. malnutrition, high infant mortality, and
a relatively high degree of illiteracy are major socioeconomic problems.
2.14      Land Use, Tenure and Production.  Some 60% of a totaL of about 304,000
rural producers are non-owners.  Holdings of less than 100 ha (91% of the total)
are currently producing, on about 32% of the arable land, about 60% of the basic
foods and 50% of the raw materials for agroindustries. Cotton, fruits, beef and
milk, beans, maize, sugarcane and cassava are presently the State's most
important agricultural products.   In part because Ceara was one of the areas
worst hit by the 1979-83 drought, the performance of the agricultural sector
during the last decade has been generally weak.
2.15      Agricultural Services.  The Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA-CE)
of the State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN-CE) is responrible for the



- 6 -
administration of the POLONORDESTE program, while the State Secretariat of
Agriculture (SAAB-CE) has been responsible for the SERTANEJO program. Through
these programs a number of Government agencies have been or are currently
providing services to support rural development. The State Agricultural
Research Company operates eight research stations. Agricultural extensixa is
provided by the State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
(EMATER-CE). Four major banks (the Bank of Brazil, the Bank of Northeast
Brazil, the National Bank for Cooperative Credit and the State Bank of Ceara)
provL'de credit to farmers through a generally adequate b-anch network.  The
Federal Food Company (COBAL) is active in food wholesaling and retailing in
rural and urban areas. The State Organization of Cooperatives (OCEC) and the
Agricultural Development Company (CODAGRO) provide input supply services
throughout the State. Public marketing is handled by the Ceara State Food
Supply Centers (CEASA-CE). Finally, cadastral activities are entrusted to the
State Land Institute (ITER-CE).
2.16      Rural Development.  To date, most investments in Ceara's rural areas
have been federally funded through the POLONORDESTE Program, the SERTANEJO
Program, the PROHIDRO Program (para. 2.08), and the Northeast Irrigation Program
executed by the National Department for Works Against Droughts (DNOCS). The
Bank has supported rural development through two POLONORDESTE projects: the
Ibiapaba Rural Development Project (Loan 1488-BR of US$1 million), and the
Second Ceara Rural Development Project (Loan 1924-BR of US$56 million), which
became effective in March 1977 and July 1981, respectively. The Ibiapaba
Project, after five years of implementation and mixed achievements, was
reformulated in June 1982 and the closing date extended for three years until
December 31, 1985. The implementation of this project has now been completed.
The implementation of the Second Ceara Rural Development Project, which covers
nearly the whole State (120 municipalities), was hampered by severe drought
during the first four years and has been hampered from the beginning by delays
in counterpart funding. Because of these delays, it is likely that the loan
closing date will have to be extended by at least one year to meet essential
project targets. (The proposed proiect has been designed such that actions
under the new project in areas already covered by the ongoing Second Ceara Rural
Development Project would be limited to new components not financed under the
ongoing project). The Government adopted several measures in M4ay and June 1986
to address the counterpart funds issue, including the establishment in Brasilia
of an ad-hoc interdepartmental working group which is now responsible for
avoiding further delays in the flow of Federal funds to the project
implementation units in the Northeast states, and this issue has now been
settled to the Bank's satisfaction.
III. THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01      The NRDP presents a new opportunity for the Bank to support poverty
alleviation and institution-building objectives in the Northeast of Brazil.
Common problems detected in the ongoing projects (paras. 2.11 and 2.16), skewed
pattern of land ownership and the exparience gained by SUDENE and state
institutions convinced both the Government and the Bank that a unified regional
and secLoral approach was needed.



-7-
3.02      In August 1982 the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP which will eventually consist of ten projects. In April
1985, as part of this Program, the Bank approved the Northeast Rural
Development I and II Projects (Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR) for the States of
Ssrgipe and Rio Grande do Norte. In addition to supporting the Sergipe Rural
Development Plan, the first project established the structure and operating
procedures for regional program planning, coordination and research to support
all ten Northeast State rural development plans. In June 1985, the Bank
approved the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan
-593-BR) which finances cadastral activities in all ten Northeastern States. A
Northeast Rural Development for the State of Pernambuco was approved in June
1986 (Loan 2718-BR). Projects for the States of Bahia and Piaui
are being submitted for Board approval concurrently with the proposed project.
A project for the State of Maranhao has already been appraised, and projects for
the three remaining States of Alagoas, Paraiba and Minas Gerais are being
prepared for Bank appraisal.
3.03      The project was appraised by the Bank in November/December 1985, and
negotiations took place in Washington in July 1986. The Brazilian delegation
was led by Ms. Stael Martins Baltar of the Federal Ministry of Planning.
Project Area
3.04      As a follow-up to the ongoing POLONORDESTE project (Loan 1924-BR), the
proposed project would encompass the State except for the six urban
municipalLties of the capital city of Fortaleza. Hovwever, since secure tenure
of land is essential for sustained rural development, the 69 municipalities
selected to benefit from the _adastral activities financed under the Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) would be considered as
high priority areas for intensive action; the remaining 75 municipalities would
receive more limited support.
Project Objectives and Description
3.05      The main objectives of the proposed project would be to:  (a) increase
agricultural production and productivity in the State; (b) generate employment
opportunities for low-income farm families; (c) increase Ceara's capacity to
provide efficient agricultural services to its small farmers; and (d) promote
water res'urce development and technology generation and diffusion to decrease
small farmer vulnerability to recurring droughts. The project would benefit an
estimated 122,800 low-income farm families, mostly without secure land tenure.
The oroject components are described briefly below and are expanded upon in
Annex 1.
3.06      Water Resource Development.  This component would include:
(a) construction of four state-managed medium-sized irrigation schemes totalling
1834 ha of irrigated land and benefiting about 975 farm families; (b) studies to
support the development of the State's irrigation plan and the preparation of
irrigation projects (6300 ha) for implementation under a subsequent stage of the
NRDP; (c) construction or rehabilitation of 400 simple water supply systems
benefiting a total of 32,000 families in small rural communities;
(d) strengthening of SAAB-CE's Water Resource Department; and (e) construction
or expansion of three fish hatcheries to reach, at full development, an annual
production of 10 million fingerlings. In addition, individual private
irrigation schemes covering about 3,400 ha would be financed under the rural
investment credit component (para. 3.09). During negotiations, the State
Government provided assurances that, within six months of loan signature,



it would: (i) define, with SUDENE's assistance and in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, the internal structure of SAAB-CE's Water Resource Department and its
staffing requirements and staff profiles; and (ii) put the preceeding
organizational improvements into effect (para. 4.01 (a)).
3.07      Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production.  Research would be
directed towards simple technology to make farming systems more productive and
resistant to possibly adverse climatic conditions and would include: (a) four
agroecological and natural resource studies to assist in future research
planning; (b) 84 short- and medium-term applied research trials 6t experiment
stations to improve production technology; (c) 36 farm-level observation units
to test and adapt integrated farm production te-hnology; and (d) basic seed and
nursery stock production on a total of about 630 ha.
3.08      Agricultural Extension.  This component would include:  (a)
construction and equipping of 55 district offices; (b) establishment and
maintenance of up to 410 demonstration plots and farms annually; (c) salaries
and recurrent costs for about 552 agricultural and social extension agents,
about 80 subject-matter specialists and supervisory personnel and 214
administrative staff; and (d) production of about 4 million seedlings for social
reforestation.
3.09      Rural Investment Credit.  The project would finance medium- and
long-term credit for on-farm investments for 37,600 farmers (31% of the 122,800
direct beneficiaries). A greater number would receive short-term production
credit to be financed by the participating banks (para. 2.15). Farmers would
contribute their labor to on-farm investments; however, because of farmers'
limited savings after the drought, financing would cover up to 100% of the cost
of goods required for on-farm investment, with a maximum repayment period of
twelve years and a maximum grace period of three years. Sugarcane plantations,
irrigation schemes larger than 4 ha, and automobiles would not be eligible.
Financing would not exceed ceilings established for the NRDP credit program in
the Central Bank's Manual for Rural Credit for individual farmers and, also, for
farmer's associations and cooperatives, provided that 70% of their members are
small farmers who would directly benefit from the investments (see paras. 3.22
and 3.23).
3.10      Marketing Services.  This component is designed to increase farmers'
knowledge of marketing and prices, improve the timely provision, storage and
marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs, and help the State expand its food
wholesaling service in rural areas. To achieve this, the project would include:
(a) expanding the State-run marketing information service (SIMA); (b)
establishing :0 storage and input supply facilities at the cooperative level;
(c) establishing five additional posts to strengthen CODAGRO's crop purchasing
network; and (d) expanding COBAL's food wholesaling service (Rede Somar) and
improving marketing services for locally produced vegetables.
3.11      Support to Small Rural Communities.  The objectives of this component
are to help formal and informal groups of farmers participate in the development
of their communities. The component would include: (a) creation of a community
development (CD) fund of about US$34.4 million to make grants for local
subprojects; (b) purchase of vehicles and equipment; and (c) training and
recurrent costs for 46 community development agents. CEPA-CE would be
responsible for administering the fund, and EMATER-CE for implementing the
component. Farmers' groups would identify, plan and execute subprojects that



-9-
would eneompass economic activities or community infrastructure and would
include training for community leaders. Written proposals explaining
objectives, benefits, implementation methodology and cost-sharing would be
subject to Municipal Councils' approval. During negotiations, the State
Government provided assurances that: (a) the CD fund would be established and
maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (b) no funds
would be released to beneficiary groups prior to the signing of the agreement
between CEPA-CE and the groups; and (c) no later than December 31, 1988, the
Bank and CEPA-CE would review the performance of the grants for economic
subprojects to establish the feasibility of carrying out further funding of
subproiects on a loan basis (para. 4.01 (b)).
3.12      Project Administration and Training.  CEPA-CE would be responsible for
administering, coordinating. and integrating all federally-funded rural programs
under the project. All project-related training would be centrally coordinated
by CEPA-CE. The project would strengthen CEPA-CE's administrative capabilities
by financing salaries of up to 222 higher level and related support staff,
travel expenses, office equipment, and other operating cests. CEPA-CE's current
administrative organization would be restructured to enable it to implement the
proposed state-wide project. During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that CEPA-CE would be reorganized, staffed and maintained under
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01 (c)).
Land Tenure Improvement.
3.13      Land regularization and redistribution in the 63 priority
municipalities selected for intensive action would result from the cadastral
activities initiated under the ongoing project (Loan 1924-BR) and expanded under
the regional land project (Loan 2593-BR). Redistribution targets, procedures
for land acquisition, allotment and selection of beneficiaries were agreed upon
as conditions for that loan. During negotiations, the Federal and State
Governments provided assurances that in the project priority areas: (a) at
least 212,000 ha would be available for redistribution to project beneficiaries
by March 31, 1988; and (b) at least an additional 330,000 ha would be available
by March 31, 1990 (para. 4.03 (a)).
Project Organization and Implementation
3.14      Federai and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission (IC),
chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior (MINTER) and
comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Land
Reform, and Agricultu-e and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall policy
planning responsibility for the NRDP.  As regional coordinator of the NRDP,
SUDENE's Directorate for the Program of Support to Small Farmers, would be
receiving policy backing from a regional Rural Development Council (RDC), which
now is being established and would include representatives of all ten
Northeastern states.
3.15      State and Local Levels.  A State Rural Development Council (SRDC),
chaired by the Governor, with the Secretary of Planning as Executive Secretary
and with up to two other State Secretaries as members, would provide overall
guidance for project-supported rural development activities. A State
Coordinating Commission (SCC), composed of CEPA-CE's Executive Secretary and
representatives of all executing agencies operating within the project, would



-o -
ensure proper implementation of SRDC's guidelines and integration of project
activities.  Day-to-day project implementation would be carried out by CEPA-CE,
whose specific duties are detailed in Annex 2. It would be a condition of loan
effectiveness that the Bank be provided with evidence that the planning,
budgeting, staffing and administration of all federally-funded rural special
programs in Ceara have been unified under the coordination of CEPA-CE (para.
4.04).
3.16      Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the project implementation period.
Once the Federal Government establishes overall funding availability for the
NRDP for the next year, state allocations would be established by SUDENE in
consultation with the RDC. CEPA-CE's Planning Division would consolidate each
executing agency's detailed annual operating plan, ensure internal consistency
and then submit them to SRDC and SUDENE for approval. SUDENE would consolidate
state plans into a regional operating plan, to be presented to the IC as the
basis for the administrative re   ation (portaria) signed by the various
Ministers involved, and legall) e-stablishing budget allocations for each State.
During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a) the regional operating plan would be sent each year to the Bank for comment
prior to approval; (b) the portaria, the final regional operating plan and the
State of Ceara's operating plan would be sent to the Bank no later than April 1
of each year; and (c) agreed planning and budgeting procedures would not be
changed without the Bank's concurrence (para. 4.02 (a)).
3.17      Accounts and Auditing.  Each participating agency would maintain its
own separate accounts for project expenditures, to be audited annually by
auditors acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, the Federal and the State
Governments provided assurances that: (a) project accounts would be maintained
according to practices satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of reference for the
auditors wculd include verification of the Statements of Expenditure and the
Special Account (para. 3.26); and (c) copies of the audit report would be sent
to the Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal year (para.4.03 (b)).
3.18      Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered into between: (a) CEPA-CE and the federal
agencies involved; (b) executing agencies, with the participation of
CEPA-CE when more than one is involved in executing a project component; and
(c) CEPA-CE or an executing agency and the concerned municipality or group prior
to implementing a community subproject. These agreements would include
execution guidelines and targets, reporting requirements, procedures for
inter-agency collaboration and funding conditions linked to performance
criteria. During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that they would enter into all necessary agreements not later than
six months after loan signing (para. 4.03, (c)).
3.19      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
have simplified reporting requirements and would aim at providing accurate and
timely information for project management and annual planning. CEPA-CE's Rural
Development Division would receive monthly reports from execu ing agencies on
key physical and financial indicators, and would produce quarterly consolidated
monitoring summaries. During negotiations, the State Government provided



- 11 -
assurances that: (a) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank no
later than three months after the end of the respective fiscal quarter; (b) the
Evaluation Unit of CEPA-CE's Institutional Development Division would be fully
staffed under conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) terms of reference
and institutional arrangements for evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.01 (d)).
Project Cost
3.20      Total project costs are estimated at US$254.3 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$27.8 million, or about 11% (see Loan and Project
Summary). The total cost is based on the assumption that all goods and services
would be acquired in Brazil, with the exception of some specialized consultants'
services. The cost estimate includes about US$10.9 million equivalent in
applicEble local taxes. Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 2%
and 17% of baseline costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were added to
baseline costs at 15% for irrigation and water supply construction; 10% for
other construction; and 5% for equipment, furniture and vehicles. Price
contingencies were estimated in US dollar terms, based on international
inflation rates estimated at 7.2% for 1986, 6.8% for 1987 and 1988, 7.0% for
1989, 7 1% for 1990 and 4.0% thereafter. It was assumed that periodic currency
adjustwents, estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for
differeaces between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
3.21      The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$122.0 million
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of taxes.
The proposed loan would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs and 41.5% of
local costs. The loan would be repayable over 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The loan
would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil which would carry the foreign
exchange risk and provide counterpart funds as necessary to complete the
project. Funding procedures would be those described in para. 3.16. Funds
would be channeled from the Treasury through the Ministry of the Interior and
SUDENE to either a specific project account in the State for activities executed
by state agencies or directly to Federal executing agencies. Monthly advances
of government counterpart funds would also be made through the Central Bank to
cover the estimated Bank share of monthly expenditures. During negotiations,
the Federal Government provided assurances that the administrative regulation
(portaria) establishing these funding procedures, once approved by the Bank.
would not be changed without Bank approvaL (para. 4.02(b)). The Government,
*     moreover, took additional decisions in August 1986 to ensure the timely
availability of counterpart funds. These decisions include the provision in the
annual Federal Budget of the  ull amount required for the execution of all the
Northeast Rural Development projects; the monthly release of these resources in
accordance with schedules and amounts agreed upon with the Bank; and the
simplification of procedures for channelling the released funds to the project
executing units.
On-Lending Terms
3.22      Proceeds of the loan would be made available, on a grant basis, to
participating federal agencies and the State of Ceara. In the case of



- 12 -
agricultural credit, the Central Bank would rediscount the subloans disbursed by
the participating banks. Following the February 28, 1986 financial and monetary
reform, the Government decided, in May 1986, to adopt a new interest rate policy
for rural credit. This policy - which is part of the policy framework for the
Credit and Marketing Reform Project - aims at maintaining, in general, interest
rates that would be positive in real terms and would fluctuate according to
market conditions. Another important policy objective is to reduce credit
subsidies substantially. There would be a general agricultural interest rate,
applicable to rural investment credit operations outside the North and the
Northeast regions, equal to the rate on commercial banks' certificates of
deposit (Certificados de Deposito Bancario, CDB) minus 10 percentage points.
This rate would be adjusted every six months, on March 1st and September 1st of
each year, to a level 10 percentage points below the CDB rate prevailing then.
For short-term credit, the interest rate would be initially set at the level
prevailing for investment credit at the time of signing the contract and would
remain fixed for the term of the loan. Until February 28, 1987, the general
rate for investment and short-term credit has been fixed at 10% and it is
expected that, in subsequent periods, the rate will fluctuate near 10% in real
terms. The interest rates for investment and short-term credit to be applied to
the small Northeast farmers who would benefit from the proposed project would
be: 2 percentage points below the general rate, for investments in sugarcane,
cocoa, coffee and rubber; 3 percentage points below the general rate, for
investments in irrigation, which would be changed to 2.5 percentage points below
the general rate in 1987, and to 2 percentage points below in 1988 and
thereafter; and 30% of the general rate, for other iuivestments. These rates
represent a substantial improvement over the ones prevailing until last
February.
3.23      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the participating banks
to carry out the project's investment credit component; (b) the Central Bank and
the other participeting banks would carry out this component in accordance with
the lending terms and conditions set forth in paras. 3.09 and 3.22 above; (c)
each of the participating banks would provide monthly information to SUDENE and
CEPA-CE on investment credit availability, demand and lending per bank agency;
and (d) priority would be given by the participating banks to allocations of
short-term production credit to their agencies serving the project area in
amounts adequete to finance the working capital requirements of project
beneficiaries (para. 4.02(c)). The new rural interest policy referred to in
para. 3.22 above has provided the basis for an amendment to the original
agreement between the Bank and the Government on rural interest rates
(negotiated in February 1983), in connection with the Agricultural Credit and
Export Project (Loan 2348-BR). This amendment also provides for an annual
review of Brazil's agricultural credit policy by the Bank and the Government.
Procurement
3.24      Civil works, estimated at US$17.1 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry
that is capable of carrying out project works. As individual construction works
are small and dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested,
but would not be excluded from bidding. Some community development civil works
(para. 3.11) would be carried out by the beneficiaries under written agreements
with CEPA-CE. Equipment, materials and vehicles required by the project,



- 13 -
totalling some US$9.2 million, would be procured by the several executing
agencies at various locations over the project implementation period, in
accordance with local cotapetitive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to
the Bank. Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000 and
goods and services contracts for more than US$100,000 would be subject to prior
Bank review of procurement documentation (about 70% and 40% of the value of
civil works, and goods and services, respectively). Consultants' services for
special studies, totalling some 20 man-years equivalent, would be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines. During negotiations, the Federal and State
Governments provided assurances that they would follow the procurement
arrangements outlined above and summarized in the following table (para.
4.03(d)).
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Type of Project Expenditure      LCB      Other       N.A.       Total Cost
Civil Works                    17.1(9.7)                          17.1   (9.7)
Equipment, Vehicles
and Furniture                  9.2(2.7)                           9.2   (2.7)
Studies and Training                      8.2(3.4)                8.2   (3.4)
Rural Investment Credit                              67.3(47.1)  67.3  (47.1)
Community Subprojects                                34.4(25.0)  34.4  (25.0)
Salaries and Allowances                              87.2(25.1)  87.2  (25.1)
Other Operating Expenses                             30.9 (9.0)  30.9   (9.0)
Total                         26.3(12.4) 8.2(3.4)219.8(106.2) 254.3 (122.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the estimated respective amounts to be
financed by the Bank.
Disbursements
3.25      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout the
eight-and-one-half-year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against project
expenditures made for water resource development, credit and support to small
commmunities, and at a rate of 50% against expenditures made for marketing.
Disbursements for the remaining components, which have a high share of recurrent
costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project expenditures until aggregate
amounts of US$1.1 million for agricultural research, US$11.9 million for
extension and US$3.4 million for administrationt and training have been
disbursed.  Thereafter, disburser nts for those categories would be made at a
rate of 30% of project expendituz.:c until an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million
for agricultural research, US$15.1 million for extension and US$7.1 million for
administration and training have been disbursed; the remaining funds for these
categories would be disbursed at 10% of expenditures. To enable project
executing agencies to prepare for an early start of project execution, project
expenditures (except agricultural credit) incurred prior to loan signing, but
after December 5, 1985 (end of project appraisal), would be eligible for
reimbursement up to US$3.0 million equivalent. However, no disbursements would
be made for the extension, domestic water supply, research and administration
components in the 112 municipalities of the ongoing project until funds



^ 14 -
allocated for those components under Loan 1924-BR have been fully committed
(para. 2.16). Disbursement projections reflect the diabursement profile for
previous rural development projects in Brazil.
3.26      Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical assistance
expens2s under US$250,000 would be made under Statements of Expenditure prepared
by the various executing agencies and certified by CEPA-CE. Supporting
documentation would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be made available
during project supervision. Standard documentation for contracts exceeding
US$250,000 would be submitted to the Bank.  To reduce Government prefinancing
requirements, a Special Account would be opened and thereafter maintained in the
Central Bank with an initial deposit equivalent to US$5.0 million. Withdrawals
in cruzados from the Special Account, supported by Statements of Expenditure and
other required documentation, would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed
on the date of the expenditure. Receipt by the Bank of proof of acquisition of
the land required for the irrigation schemes and Bank approval of the detailed
engineering designs, resettlement plans, and operation and maintenance
standards, would be conditions of disbursement of any loan proceeds allocated to
finance the construction of public irrigation schemes (para. 4.05). Any loan
proceeds so allocated which by June 30, 1988, are not committed to a specific
public irrigation scheme approved by the Bank would be cancelled (para. 4.06).
Project Benefits and Justification
3.27      Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The impact of the project on
agricultural production would result from increased productivity and the
expansion of the cropped area. The annual value of incremental marketable
production at full development, is expected to be US$64 million, at December
1985 farmgate prices. Approximately 80% of this amount would come from crops
and 20% from livestock. This is not expected to lead to marketing constraints
as Ceara's present production does not meet demand. Production surpluses would
be marketed through existing channels. Improved marketing facilities, water
supply systems and community activities would also provide substantial benefits
to the population, especially to women. Expanded agricultural activities would
create jobs equivalent to some 81,000 man-years annually. Improved farming
practices and soil conservation would have a beneficial impact on the
environment. Estimated financial rates of return for the nine illustrative farm
models range from 11% to 40%. All project beneficiaries belcag to the poverty
target group. Net annual farm incomes, which, taking into account supplemental
income from off-farm work, currently vary between US$65 and US$320 per capita,
would increase, at full development, to a range of US$220 to US$430, ir. conszant
terms.
3.28      Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact.  Although it is not Government policy
to obtain full cost recovery on rural programs for low-income families, current
legislation allows SAAB-CE to recover 100% of operation and maintenance costs
and public investments in common irrigation and drainage infrastructure over a
50-year period. The initial investment is revalued but without charging
interest4!. The municipalities would cover the costs of operation and
4/    For further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects see
Brazil: Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project, Staff
Appraisal Report (Report No. 5975-BR), dated May 12, 1986.



- 15 -
maintenance of the water supply services until the Northeast Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Program begins in 1988; at that stage, consumers would be
expected to pay for the service. During negotiations, the State Government
would provide assurances that: (a) cost recovery provisions for public
irrigation schemes would be implemented in accordance with Government
legislation that is satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) drinking water supply
charges covering full operation and maintenance costs would begin to be charged
to consumers in 1988 (para. 4.01 (e)).
3.29.     Additional recurrent costs to the Government of about US$6.0 million
per annum to sustain the project following the investment period would be offset
by additional fiscal revenues of about US$9.0 million annually generated by the
value added tax on product circulation that would apply to the incremental
marketable production.
3.30      Economic Analysis. The economic rate of return for the project has
been estimated at 13%. The cost and benefit streams are detailed in Annex 3.
Sensitivity tests show that when project benefits fall by 17% or project costs
rise by over 21% the rate of return falls below the estimated 11% opportunity
cost of capital. A lag of three years in achieving project benefits, such as
might occur during a severe drought, would result in a 10% rate of return.
Project Risks
3.31      Although projects under NRDP are simpler in design than previous rural
development projects, efficient delivery of project services and
inter-institutional cooperation would still be important for project success.
The project includes an improved monitoring and evaluation component to foster a
more efficient institutional environment. Delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding and rural credit could decrease the proposed project's impact. Recent
changes in funding procedures, the merging of the rural special programs, the
regional scope of the Northeast Rural Development Program, of which the project
is part, and the broad support which the program enjoys among Government and
local leaders, should help the project to receive adequate funding. At the farm
level, the security of land tenure is still a problem; implementation of the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and of the
Government's agrarian reform should help minimize this risk. Many farmers still
face recurring drought conditions. Decreasing these risks has influenced
project design by increasing the focus on water resource development and small
farmer technology generation and diffusion.
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION
4.01     During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that:
(a)  within six months of loan signature, it would: (i) define, with
SUDENE's assistance and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the
internal structure of SAAB-CE's Water Resource Department and its
staffing requirements and staff profiles; and (ii) put the preceeding
organizational improvements into effect (para. 3.06);
(b)  (i) the community development fund would be established and maintained
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (i$) no funds
would be released to beneficiary groups prior to the signing of a
written agreement between CEPA-CE and the groups or municipalities;



- 16 -
and (iii) no later than December 31, 1988, the Bank and CEPA-CE would
review performance of the grants for the economic subprojects to
establish the feasibility of carrying out further community fund
operations on a loan basis (para. 3.11);
(c) CEPA-CE would be reorganized, staffed and maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.12);
(d) (i) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank no later
than three months after the end of the respective fiscal quarter; (ii)
CEPA-CE Institutional Development Division's Evaluation Unit would be
fully staffed, under conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii)
terms of reference and institutional arrangements for evaluations
would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.19); and
(e)  (i) cost recovery provisions for public irrigation schemes woule be
implemented in accordance with Government legislation; and (ii)
drinking water supply charges covering full operation and maintenance
costs would begin to be charged to consumers in 1988 (para. 3.28).
4.02      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a) (i) the regional operating plan would be sent each year to the Bank
for comment prior to approval; (ii) the portaria, the final regional
operating plan and the State of Ceara's operating plan would be
submitted to the Bank not later than April 1 of each year; and (iii)
agreed planning and budgeting procedures would not be changed without
the Bank's concurrence (para. 3.16);
(b) the administrative regulation establishing the current funding
procedures would not be changed without Bank approval (para. 3.21);
and
(c) for rural credit, the sufficiency of funds, the eligibility criteria,
terms and conditions, reporting provisions, and credit priorities
would be applied as outlined in paras. 3.09 and 3.23.
4.03      During negotiations, both the Federal and the State Governments
provided assurances that:
(a) at least 212,000 ha by March 31, 1988, and an additional 330,000 ha by
March 31, 1990, would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries in priority areas (para. 3.13);
(b) (i) project accounts would be maintained and audited annually
according to practices satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the terms of
reference for the auditors would include verification of the
Statements of Expenditures and the Special Account; and (iii) copies
of the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months
of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.17);
(c) all necessary operating agreements would be entered into no later than
six months after loan signature (para. 3.18); and



- 17 -
(d) procurement procedures would be as specified in para. 3.24.
4.04      It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the Bank be
provided with evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing and administration
of all current special programs in Ceara be unified under the coordination of
CEPA-CE (pEra. 3.15).
4.05      It would be a condition of disbursement for loan proceeds financing
the construction of public irrigation schemes that the Bank had:(i) received
proof of acquisition of the land required for irrigation schemes; and (ii)
approved the detailed engineering designs, resettlement plans, and operation
and maintenance standards (para. 3.26).
4.06      Any loan proceeds allocated for the construction of public irrigation
schemes which by June 30, 1988 are not committed to a specific public irrigation
scheme approved by the Bank, would be cancelled (para. 3.26).
4.n7      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$122.0 million equivalent with a term of
15 years, including a 3-year grace period.
September 26, 1986



-18-
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOFMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PR(JECT - CEARA
Project Description
A. Land Tenure and Agricultural Production
1.        About 91% of Ceara's 304,000 farms are smaller than 100 ha, yet they
account for only 32% of the total farm area. Furthermore, about 60%of the small
farms (less than 100 ha) are worked by farmers without legal title to their land
(Table 1.1). More than half of these producers work on rainfed farms that are
smaller than 10 ha; they are, however, responsible for 60% of the State's basic
food production.
2.        Ceara has an overall deficit of basic food crops and livestock
products such as rice, beans, cassava, maize, beef and milk, pork and fish. It
is a net exporter of cotton, cashewnut, coconut and lobster. In 1984, the
State's gross agricultural product was distributed as follows: 55% for crop
production, 41% for livestock production and 4% for extractive products (Table
1.2).
B. Project Area
3.        The project, like the ongoing Second Ceara Rural Development Project
which covers 120 municipalities (out of a total of 150), has been prepared
within the framework of a statewide planning exercise, with, however, an
emphasis on 'E9 municipalities (distributed among the State eight Regional
Planning Units) that were selected as priority areas to benefit from the land
cadastral activities financed under the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project (Loan 2593-BR) as shown on Map IBRD 18686. Thuse municipalities would
be considered as high priority areas for intensive action while the remaining 75
(after excluding the 6 municipalities of the urban district of Fortaleza) would
receive a more extensive support limited to some irrigation, community
development, extension and credit (Tables 1.3 and 1.4 and Map IBRD 19516).
C. Detailed Features of Project Components
waLer Resource Development
4.        The public irrigation activities would include the construction of:
(a) the following four schemes: Santo Antonio de Russas (563 ha), Riacho do
Sangue (334 ha), Realejo (405 ha), and Poco do Barro (532 ha). In all four
schemes, totalling 1,834 ha, some 975 farm families would benefit. In addition,
about 3,400 ha of private irrigation financed under the rural investment credi-
component is expected to benefit 7,000 farm families.
5.        The execution of the public irrigation subcomponent would be carried
out by the recently created Water Resource Department (DRH) within the



-19-
Secretariat of Agriculture (SAAB) that would be strengthened under the project.
0R1  would be responsible with SPE for planning and coordinating irrigation
activities, elaborating further feasibility studies, preparing engineering
designs and carrying out civil works (usually by contractors), supervising,
executing settlement programs, managing the irrigation schemes during the first
three years, collecting water charges and providing technical assistance to
farmers in hydro-agronomic practices. ESIATER-CE would be responsible for all
agronomic technical assistance to farmers in public irrigated perimeters as well
as those undertaking private irrigation.
6.        The planning and execution of the irrigation subprojects would be
subject to the following conditions: (i) receipt by the Bank of the proof of
acquisition of the land required for the irrigation schemes; and (ii) Bank
approval of detailed engineering designs, resettlement plans, and operation and
maintenance standards for such schemes (para. 4.05). Cost recovery through
water tariffs would be implemented in accordance with Government legislation.
Measures to strengthen the DRH would be carried out within six months of project
start-up. All funds financed fran the Bank Loan that are not committed to a
specific public irrigation scheme approved by the Bank, by June 30, 1988, would
be cancelled.
7.        Investmen, costs, including small dams, pumping equipment, powerline,
access road, pipelines, sprinklers, and canals and drains range from US$2,415/ha
for Santo Antonio de Russas (short distance pumping from existing storage dam
with sprinkler and gravity irrigation) to US/3,840/ha for Riacho fo Sangue
(short distance pumping from existing storage dam with sprinkler irrigation) and
US$8,570/ha for Poco de Barro (long distance pumping from existing storage dam
with sprinkler irrigation). On-farm works average about US$600/ha.
8.        The public irrigation subcomponent would also finance identification
and preparation by consultants, under SAAB-CE supervision, of future projects
for the second phase of the NRDP as follows: reconnaissance studies for 16,000
ha; pre-feasibility studies for 8,000 ha; and feasibility studies for 6,300 ha
of irrigated land.
9.        The water supply subcomponent would consist of the construction of:
106 simple water supply systems with bore-holed wells, 74 smaller systems using
hand-dug wells (pocos amazonas) and the rehabilitation of 220 water supply
systems that have stopped functioning or need repairs. This subcomponent would
benefit some 32,000 families (160,000 people) located in 39 municipalities of
the area of intensive action (see Table 1-4). It is only expected to be
financed for the first two years as this action would later be funded by the
Bank-financed Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (NRWSS) Project that
is currently under preparation. Each simple water supply system would include a
deep or shallow well or surface source of water, pumping equipment, a
transmission line, a storage tank, laundry facilities and one or more standpipes
that would serve from 10 to 106 families. Water supply systems would be
designed for an average flow of 30 liters per capita per day; the per capita
investment cost of new systems are estimated to vary from US$17.5 (for the
hand-dug wells) to US$20 (for the bore-holed wells).
10.       CAGE-CE would be responsible for the implementation of the
subcomponent, including planning, civil works supervision, and monitoring. The



-20-
construction of the water supply systems would be carried out by the State
Superintendency for Civil Works (SOEC) or by small contractors under the
supervision of CAGE-CE. Selection criteria for communities would include
village size, per capita investment costs, location (preference would be given
to areas where the density of communities to have new systems installed is
highest) and community willingness to gradually assume responsibility for
operation and maintenance. During a transition period until the NRWSS becomes
effective, the municipalities and the State would assist the communities in
meeting operating expenses. CAGE-CE would discuss the location of the wells and
standpipes with the recipients and the municipal authorities before installation
of the systems; it would also provide technical backstopping and training to the
community.
11.       The fishery subcomponent would consist of: (a) expanding two existing
fish hatcheries in Quixada and Barbalha; and (b) establishing one new hatchery
in Inhamuns/Salgado, to reach at full development a total annua:. production of
10 million fingerlings (mostly native Amazon river species) to xe distributed by
the executing agency, SAAB-CE, directly to individual fish farms through on-farm
credit and to rural communities to stock public ponds and lakes. The expansion
of the Quixada hatchery and the construction of the new unit are scheduled in
Year 1. The expansion of the Barbalha unit would depend on the successful
performance of the first two hatcheries. Breeding stock would be provided by
the National Department of Works Against Drought (DNOCS) and the Sao Francisco
Valley evelopment Company (CODEVASF). For all three units, sales of fingerlings
would allow the operation and maintenance costs to be fully covered. Technical
assistance would be provided to some 200 fish farms (totalling 200 ha of fish
ponds) by specially trained extensionists assigned to each hatchery.
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production
12,       The state research program has developed during the past ten years and
will continue to develop technical recommendatlons to improve agricultural
productivity. However, there is a recognized need to redirect their research
program towards improved adaptation of low-cost technology, prophylactic
programs (for cotton in particular) and crop diversification to make small
farmers more resistant to drought cycles. The project would finance four
specific activities: (a) four natural resource studies, to be completed within
the first three years of the project, to assist in future research planning; (c)
about 84 applied research trials to be carried out at experiment stations to
improve production technology; (d) installation of about 36 farm-level
observation units to test improved technology using farmer participation; (e)
basic seed production (cotton, maize, beans, rice and sorghum) from 630 ha, and
production and distribution of improved breeding goats.
13.       The implementing agency would be the State Agricultural Research
Company (EPA-CE). Technical supervision, training, coordination with research
programs in other States and review of annual plans would be the respon£ibility
of the Federal Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid Tropics
(CPATSA), which is receiving support for these activities under the First
Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan 2523-BR). EPA-CE would develop the
research in cooperation with both farmers and extension officers and appraise
both technical and economic results from farm-level observation units.
Cooperating farmers who have observation units on their farms would contribute
to the investments (mostly in the form of labor). Once the results of these



-21-
observation units have been proveu, they would be diffused among farmers through
demonstration plots under the aegis of FIMTER-CE. EPA-CE would expand the
existing program to produce basic seeds of five major crops: cotton, maize,
beans, rice and sorghum. The project would finance investment coats for sheds,
vehicles, agricultural equipment and recurrent costs. The basic seed produced
would be sold to cooperatives for multiplication. The improved seeds would be
processed by EPA-CE and marketed through the existing CODAGRO and/or cooperative
networks.
Rural Extension
14.       EMATER-CE is already providing technical assistance to some 45,000
(out of a target of 60,000) small farmers in the major part of the State (112
municipalities) under the ongoing Bank-assisted POLONORDESTE project (Loan
1924-BR). Un,der the proposed project, the extension service would be expanded
to reach about 122,800 farm families at full development (91,000 in the area of
intensive action and 31,800 in the area of extensive action). This represents
about 44% of Ceara's small farmers. The project would finance: (a) c4vil works,
equipment and vehicles for 55 district offices; (b) establishment ar.d
maintenance of up to about 410 demonstration plots and farms annually; (c)
recurrent costs for 552 agricultural and social extension agents (two
agricultural agents for every social extension agent), 80 subject-matter
specialists and supervisory personnel and about 214 administrative staff; (d)
the production of about 4 million seedlings of algaroba, sabia and fruit trees
to plant about 17,500 ha; and (e) project-related vehicles, training and
operating costs.
15.       EMATER-CE field staff is organized into 13 regional, 77 district and
129 local offices. Most supervisory personnel and subject-matter specialists
would be located in regional offices or in Fortaleza and would travel 50% of the
time to supervise local extension agents. At field level, each extension agent
would assist on a fixed schedule six to eight groups of 20-25 farmers organized
around contact farmers and demonstration plots. The ratio of extension agents
to farm families in the area of intensive action would decline from 1:120 in
Year I to 1:300 by Year 8. Some extensionists would be specialized, namely
those dealing with farmers who also fish and also those dealing with farmers who
live in irrigated perimeters.  Social extension workers, cooperating in teams
with agricultural extensionists, would work with farm families to improve
sanitation, child care, family nutrition, small animal husbandry and vegetable
gardening.  About 46 extensionists would work exclusively on the Support to the
Small Communities component to be financed under the project (paras. 28 and
29).  Specialists from the Federil Company for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension (EMBRATER) would supervise EMATER-CE at least once a month.
In-service training for extension staff would include assistance from EPA-CE and
EMBRAPA through CPATSA.
16.       Extension activities would encourage adoption of simple, low-cost
practices which would improve crop yields, preserve soil fertility, expand the
cultivated area and increase livestock production. Many practices to reach
these objectives are already proven, such as: (a) increased use of animal
traction to improve land preparation and labor productivity; (b) increased use
of improved seeds; (c) contour ploughing and more appropriate crop rotations to
improve water and soil conservation; (d) improved weed,and pest and disease
control; (e) increased use of drought-resistant and perennial crops; (f)



-22-
improved animal husbandry; and (g) improved pastures and cultivated forage
crops.
17.       Agricultural extension agents would also be responsible for the
implementation of the forestry activities aimed at producing some 4
millionseedlings for farmers to plant for fuelwood, fodder and fruit trees.
Small nurseries would be installed at village and farm level and EMATER-CE
technical staff would be specifically trained in seedling production,
distribution, and wood lot management.
Rural Investment Credit
18.       See paras. 3.09, 3.22 and 3.23.
Marketing Services
19.       The marketing component is designed to increase farmers' knowledge of
markets and prices, improve the timely provision of agricultural inputs, and
expand an efficient food retail service throughout the project area. A
Marketing Fund grouping ongoing Government schemes,such as the Minimum Price
Scheme (CEP) and the Advance Purchase of Farmers' Surpluses (CAP), would be
established but without Bank support.
20.       The Marketing Information Service (SIMA) is an ongoing activity
carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. It provides farmers with timely
advise on local and regional prices, storage facilities, transport, and selling
options. The project would establish two additional regional SIMA offices in
Limoeiro do Norte and Quixada. It would also finance the operation and
maintenance of four SIMA agencies (Tiangua, Baturite, Crato, B. Santo) installed
under the ongoing POLONORDESTE project (Loan 1924-BR). Each office would have
two marketing technicians and a clerk. Data would be collected at markets and
disseminated by radio and printed bulletins.
21.       Storage/Input Supply Network.  The project would finance the
installation of 20 storage/input supply outlets for 18 cooperatives. These
posts would supply basic goods and inputs to cooperative members and provide
storage for the purchase of crops (mainly cotton) through CSP. The field posts
would consist of a storage unit of 200 m2 including 75 m2 for the sales section
and 125 i2, for storage of farm products. Each post is estimated to cost about
US$15,000. Feasibility studies would be carried out before the installation of
each outlet on the basis of a minimum volume of sales, transportation and
distribution costs. Costs to be financed by the project would include
construction and equipment of facilities. Operation and maintenance would be
the responsibility of the State Organization for Cooperatives (OCEC).
22.       The project would also finance equipment arA vehicles for five buying
posts to expand CODAGRO's CEP program. The unit cost of each post, which would
be rented by CODAGRO is estimated a^- US$67,500. Operation and maintenance costs
for each unit would be borne by CODAGRO through its margin on sales.
23.       Basic Food Supply.  The project would expand the Rede Somar activities
of the Federal Food Company (COBAL) throughout the State. It would finance: (a)
the construction of four service centers (Sobral, Iguatu, Quixada and Russas);



-23-
(b) the purchase of one van to expand the existing fleet of mobile markets; an6
(c) the expansion of the marketing network for perishables. This latter item
would include the installation of a purchasing center in Tiangua, the expansion
of the CEASA-CE-operated center in Fortaleza/Maranguape and the installation of
four selling outlets in the new COBAL service centers, six at the existing COBAL
retail outlets in Fortaleza and another five outlets in the interior (Baturite,
Sobral, Iguatu, Quixada and Quixeramobim). Feasibility studies for the three
service centers of Sobral, Iguatu and Quixada have been prepared by COBAL; the
study for Russas will be prepared during the initial project years, before
construction. These four centers would be established in Years 1, 3, 5 and 6,
the installation of the last three depending on the successful performance of
the one (Sobral) established in Year 1. Working capital for the four COBAL
service centers and the perishable marketing center would be financed under the
Marketing Fund without Bank support.
24.       Training.  EMATER-CE would train extension agents in marketing
echniques. The courses would include product marketing systems, marketing
margins, product classification, market preferences, processing, handling and
crop storage.
25.       Marketing Fund.  The marketing fund (para. 19) would be entirely
financed by the Government and would include:
(a) the working capital for one month's stock of the four COBAL service
centers and of the CEASA-CE buying center for perishables in Fortaleza
(about US$1.6 million);
(b) the advance purchase of farmers' surpluses (CAP) program (about US$7.3
million) for about 15,000 producers, or 12% of the project
beneficiaries, to be executed under the responsibility of CODAGRO.
(c) the minimum price scheme (CEP) program (about US$8 million) for about
15,000 farmers, to be executed under the responsibility of CODAGRO and
cooperatives; and
(d) the working capital for the CODAGRO's and cooperatives-operated input
supply network expanded under the project (about US$3.5 million).
Support to Small Rural Communities (SSRC)
26.       The objectives of the SSRC component, which would expand an ongoing
satisfactory pilote program (FADA) in the State, are to help formal and informal
groups of farmers participate in their own development by: (a) providing them
with a system whereby they select, plan, implement, manage and monitor local
development projects suited to their own needs; (b) safeguarding their own
interests through group representation; and (c) enabling them to improve their
economic base through organfzing joint resources for increased production. In
order to carry out these objectives, the component would include: (a) creation
of a community grant fund of US$34.4 million to finance local development
projects; (b) purchase of vehicles and equipment; and (c) training and recurrent
costs for about 46 community development agents. Most of the 122,80u project
beneficiaries would benefit directly as a result of the local development
projects (LDP).



-24-
27.       The community development (CD) fund would finance three categories of
LDPs: (a) economically based LDPs (representing in total at least 60% of the
fund) such as cottage industries, building of fish ponds and small animal
production schemes; (b) community infrastructural LDPs (representing at least
25% of the fund) such as construction of communal laundry facilities, small
irrigation and drainage schemes, and repair of small access roads; and (c)
community organization LDPs (representing not more than 151 of the fund) such as
training group leaders and giving legal assistance for land tenure matters.
Guidelines have been established to help select LDPs:
(a) LDPs would be submitted in writing to Municipal Councils and would
include objectives, justification, expected benefits, method of
implementation, cost sharing (groups would participate with about 151
of cost) and monitoring and evaluation;
(b) the fund would not finance subprojects funded by other project
components nor the construction of schools, health posts, roads or
rural electrification;
(c) the fund would not finance recurrent costs of LDPs; and
(d) the group would be solely responsible for the management and
administration of the LDPs that should attempt to benefit the
community and eventually become self-sustaining.
28.       EMATER-CE would be responsible for the implementation of the SSRCs.
It would recruit, mainly from within its own staff, 46 full-time CD agents who
would be university graduates. These agents, each one covering three
municipalities, would stimulate community organization and assist in the
formulation of group requests for LCPs. Group requests would then be submitted
to Municipal Councils fir discussion, analysis, evaluation and approval.
Municipal Council members would be elected by village and each village would
send two representatives to the Council. The relevant CD agent and regional
coordinators from CEPA-CE and EMATER-CE would also participate in the analysis
and evaluation of group requests. CEPA-CE could reverse the Municipal Council's
recommendation if it does not conform with the stated guidelines, or postpone
funding if funds have been exhausted for the current fiscal year.
29.       Disbursements would be made by installments and progress in
implementation would be supervised by the CD agent.  In the case of a legally
registered association or group, disbursements would be made directly to the
group through a bank account. In the case of an unregistered group, the
agreement would be signed by the municipality on behalf of the group, and funds
would be channelled through the municipality. At present all funds would be
disbursed on a grant basis; but by March 31, 1989, CEPA-CE and the Bank would
review the experience to date on the economically based LDCs to study the
possibility of carrying out further CD fund operations on a loan basis.
30.       Monitoring and evaluation of the LDCs would be extremely important to
oth the groups themselves and the development of the SSRC component itself.
During the preparation of a group request the CD agent and the group would
determine the procedures required for participatory monitoring and evaluation.



-25-
The fact that monitoring and evaluation would be a participatory effort would:
(a) increase the awareness and commitment within the community; (b) allow
findings to be fed back immediately to the group; and (c) as an ongoing process,
give the CD agent a closer understanding of the project and of the community's
evolution.
D. Project Cost
31.       See para. 3.20 and Tables 1.5 and 1.6
-         E. Project Financing
32.       Funding procedures would be those adopted for the NRDP.  Funds would
be channelled from the Treasury through the Ministry of Interior (MINTER) and
SUDENE for both the Land Redistribution and Agroindustrial Modernization Program
Fund (PROTERRA) and the Social Investment Fund (FINSOCIAL), to either a specific
project account in the State for activities executed by state agencies or
directly to federal executing agencies. Monthly advances of Government
counterpart funds would also be made through the Central Bank to cover the
estimated Bank share of monthly expenditures.
P. Procurement
33.       See para. 3.24
G. Disbursement
34.       See para. 3.25 and 3.26 and Tables 1.7 and 1.8
H. Accounts and Audit ng
35.       See para. 3.17
I. Progress Reporting - Monitoring and Evaluation
36.       See para. 3.19 and Annex 2



AZIE
- r r - INNA
NOZFlIASF IMRA iEVEUThWr~ PRDEC - CEARA
State Stnucture of la-d   H Adi
PlanmdTg                    Less 10 ha Farm                  10-100 he Farmiil                               AZnk FaZin
Regicms         ~~~No.    %     Are      %      NO.      %      Aria       %       No.   Z        Aream    2     ZofLaxms-wrsa
(ha)                   ~~~~~~~~(ba)                      (he)
Garld                17,14  4&4   72,578  5.5    15,536  43.8    518,691  39.0   35,483  100   1,328,553  100                74.1
Sertoes de I_twms
e Salgado            7,967  27.1   42,198  2.3    16,883  57.4    599,917  33.1   29,404  100   1,812,387  100               87.0
Sertoes de Qiix.
e Medlio Jauaribe    8,526  27.5   45,005  1.9    17,584  56.7    604,725  25.8   30,988  100   2,342,417  100              87.0
Sertoes Cearense     17,762  38.4   84,706  2.8    22,570  489    734,636  24.7   46,204  100   2,978,946  100               59.1
BaiXD Juaqribe        9,875  50.8   40,624  4.5       8,094  41.6    247,517  29.1   19,440  100      912,837  100           83.1
Baturite              9,913  68.7   27,123  8.6       3,884  26.9    117,267  37.3   14,426  100       314,192  100           62.0
Ibtapaba              7,200  55.0   29,109  7.7      5,267  40.3    146,661  38.5   13,084  100       38D,722  100           70.4
Litoral              39,392  69.1  119,273  6.5    14,669  25.7    440,371  23.9   57,039  100   1,840,955  100              50.0
IUrAL 1980 D3N1B    117,809  47.9  460,616  3.9   104,487  42.5  3,409,785  28.6  246,068  100  11,910,979  100             68.7 a/
rJTAL SE b/        146,000    -       -      -    132,000    -         -       -   304,,050   -   13,324,033   -             39.0
Soree:  D( Ceuue-1980 - Pretninayr (ad inonplete) figues.
a/  of these fatmne classified a  onerse" by the Cewsus, ab   40% haoe no lepl title to their land.                                          I.
b/  Source DM  1978 survey. 



N?RFASr MRAL E               RM
NW FASr R L tEUHf FHKJr - CEAMA
Eyolm of State AgriuLbxral Production
1978                        197981 a/                          1982                        1984
Czk Ae                          Yield   Prductm        Area      Yield  Prohtimn       Area   Yield  Prductit       Area   Yield   Productiii
(ha)   (kg/a)    (tons)        (ha)    fkg/a)b/  (torn)        (ha)  (kgha)   (toe)         (ha)  O;/)    (to)
Perenial ODttzn           1,200,000     198    237,600    1,150,000     108    123,750    997,750     144    140,766  523,033      192    100,693
Herb. Cotton                 84,000     330     27,720       55,270     210     11,612    124,010     465      57,690  269,899     672    181,436
Rice (paddy)                56,000   1,200      67,200       28,184   1,160     32,716     57,876   1,219      70,525   40,553   2,048     83,047
Beans                       400,000     300    12D,000      294,12D     217     63,944    593,540     283    168,228  471,553      :63    171,213
Cassava (roots)             175,000   9,000   1,575,000     143,667   7,232  1,039,000     74,621   7,735    577,214   95,075   9,300    884,197
MaLze                       480,000     540    259,200      309,337     312     96,605    510,226      300    153,349  422,300     610    257,603
Towtoen                        700  28,000      19,600          833  29,988     24,990      1,148  23,929      27,470    1,494  20,338     30,3S5
Sugar cwne                   52,500  40,000  2,100,000       54,714  28,843  1,578,100     55,176  41,619  2,296,346   46,133  42,835  1,976,097
Ebnymias                    36,000  12,188    438,750        34,200   9,075    310,375     29,750   8,938    265,889   28,722  lO,112    292,435
Coffee (dried cherries)      9,979      621      6,199       11,807     547      6,458     13,700     330      4,515   17,184      527      9,056
Csudw Nut                   84,065      773     64,995      106,312     406     43,135    137,623     503      69,186  216,220     400     86,488
Cooxmat (uzs)                20,500   3,750     76,875       21,500   3,610     77,625     2D,195   3,738      75,481   19,200   4,050     77,760
Livestock
-feef rsat (ton carcass)                      51,858                          38,103                         42,100                      29,568
-iLk ('OOD 1)                                194,869                          192,254                       184,2B7                     199,806
a/ Drought period cparable in 1981 to tte very severe drougt of 1983.
edtal awrag.
Source: IOlE - Statistical Yearly Bulletins.
LIX
N 



MZL
"Nam         "AL arEal3I  PM        - (VA
Proect Priotlty Areas ad Benefitiy Ditrlbuttin 
Enite State/RLizs                               rnternsiv Action
hKro-f8Ic01cRl         l        b er cc          Law        Ravel         tu43er Of       aod   b nal             lRnwr of   t ehaer t            taM        Ravel         Mr at
Regiomr     mau               M lddpalities      Aea   PcpdAiam at Mmd4mmltie.            A       Pmation a/ Drneficiarifa   MdicipUtles    Arta   PIull     at  Beefidarto
CWRI                                 26         16,902       342 725          12           6,414      171,999       13,366            14          10t488      170,72          9,020
-&rii hA Carlri*cu                 -                          83,  -  -              --                               -                7- 85 4
-6ertm  de CarSri                    9           5,026       118,548           7           3,513       85,856        6,651             2           1,513       32,69Z          1,540
-wala dp ArarSpe                      5          5,153        54,176           -                         -            -                5           5,153       54,176         3,300
-<ariri                               5          2,9)1        86,143           5           2,901       86,143        6,715                   -                   -             -
SR01     P IM DM  1AW                18         22,192       299,5b4           4           5,437       83,843        6,439            14          16,755      215,721          7,120
E RW34~D
4SertnU dos btama                    6          11,742        95,216           -            -            -            -                6          11,742       9f,216          3,757
-Iguatu                               5          6,021       117,048           3           3,470       46,786        3,594             3           2,551       70,262          1,188
-%ertAD de Salgeb                    6           4,429        87,30D           1            1,967      37,057        2,845             5           2,462       50,243          2,175
SESM O!QILX. E                       15         27,413       360,610           5           12,408     154,894        9,223             10         15,0D5      205.716         6 3____
-Sertoa  ee qtdx.                    5          13,050       168,871           3           9,786      131,818        6,9D9             2           3,264       36,853           66
fiertoes do S. Pml                    5          7,768       122,812           -            -            -            -                5           7,768      122,812          3,960
-#ISo J te                           3           4,535        37,396           2           2,622       23,076        2,314             1           1,913       14,320           660
-.erra dF Peretro                     2          2,06D        31,731           -            -            -            -                2           2,040       31,731          1,1(10
BAMUX.JNGbUE                         12         11,943       186,471          10           7,559      131,114       14,183             2           4,384       55,357           66D
BA¶I                                 10          3,822       132,381          10           3.822      132,3B1        8,418             -            -            -             -
S___EB _ _BE15                       33         33 767       500D609          11           8 994      158 741       13.013            22          24,773      341 68           5 IO
-id  e aWeloA harm                                                                             2   4  T   1' 62 905
6ohrol                               15          7,177       168,487           8           4,576       93,226        7,636             7           2,601       75,261         t,320
-IbSapha MerSdidnal                   3          3,418        61,493           -            -            -            -                3           3,418       61,493           5)
-Sertoes de Orsterm                  5          11,066       120,912                                    -             -                5          11,0I6      120,912          1,81D
-fiprrtwA de Cnie                    6           9,666       113,133           1           2,885       38,833        2,991             5           6,783       74,30f2          88D
IBIAPAUA                             7           4,786       146,647           7           4.78       146,647       11,812             -           -             -              -
Lll3L                                29         25,992       508,895          10           9,949      226,749       14,546            13          13,560      26,831          3,52
-eorl de cmm
e Acram                           9           8,620       137,442           5           3,636       82,762        6,962             4           4,84        54,60            8D)
4Jubmrra,n                          11          10,717      229,433            5           5,313      143,987        7,S56             6           5,404       85,451         1,540          ,  x
-Fortaleza                           6           3,483       78,597                                        -            -            - _____1 
-Uterl de Parats                     3           3,172       66,7M0            -            -           -             -                3           3,172       66,700          1,100
lrAj                               150        146,817    2,477,902           69          58,369    1,206,368       91,0XX            75          84,965    1,196,219        31,800W
8, At fsill develment.



-29 -                                             I
1R 1.4
NUEAST PRAL MWZOF!I P
WFJIEAS DuL EEVIARMI Raw- -UP
List of I          In tte Pmoject Am
(Area of Intensive Actlmn)
Agro-Icogical '--ima.
pqliuf            pieniz                                         Estimted Nudber of Beneficiaries a/
Sufwgim              units            muicipalty                  Itsve Area           Ek tersve Area
CWEM                                                                        13,366               9,020
B   criri    Cariri             Abat.Nra*                   499      6,651
Brejo Santo*              1,103
Jjti*                       45D
Mauriti*                  2,089
Miagres*                  1,186
Pecaforte*                  295
Pbrteras*                 1,029
-Cairi                                  Barbaba*                  1,270      6,715
cMato*                    1,770
Jard1n*                   1,418
Juazeiro do Perte*          961
Missao ve]ji*             1,296
m          INHHDOS  IMO                                                      6,439               7,12D
E SAUAL)M
Q -                  Serto   dos        Tguatu*  )                2,954)    3,594
Iztaan e          Qdlo*) 
Sgado               O*                         740
-Setao de Salgado                      IcoW                       2,845      2,845
seaM E  LE Wm E                                                              9,223               6,380
MEDIO JAGLaARI
-Sertao de Qdx.      Serto  de Q4x.   Itatira*                      753      6,909
e M. Jagaribe      Quixadm*                  2,964
qsmoawbbdk                3,192
-Ifio Jaguaribe                         Jmguaribara*                436      2,314
Jaguarlbe*                1,878
UAIJ JAGJARIE                                                               14,183                 660
B- -o Jqa4sribe    Arcti* )                  1,878)   14,183
ICWd*  ))
Itaicba*                    349
Jaguarusma                1,975
Limefro do Norte*         2,648
Pahnk                       42
QAxere*                   1,172
Ibs*ook                   2,983
S. Joao de Jagaribe*        874
Tabulefro do NorteA       1,884



- 30                                                ANNEXI
Table 1.4
Page 2 of 2
Ag~logical                                ~'~''~~~       
Ragions           Paning                                         Estmated Nbter of Beneficiaries a1
Sub-flegio!w        Regions           ?IiC±pality               litve Area                Extensive Aea
SEBRA, IE BA:TU                                                             8,418
Baturite          Aracolaba*                 1,252     8,418
Aratuba*                    619
Baturite*                   832
Capistrano*                 439
Guamdraga*                  349
Itapiuna*                   439
tiAdum                      475
Pacoti*                     731
Palmacia*                   665
ncao*                     2,517
SEEM=  CEAENE                                                               13,013               5,100
-oai   edo           Sertoes           Morrinos                     767      2,386
Acaral              GC ;ers            Santana de Acarau          1,619
-Sobral                                Carire                     1,116      7,636
Frechelriha                 524
Groairas                    500
Massape                    1,404
Reriutuba )                1,237
Vajota )
Forquiha)                 2,855
Sobral )
-Sertoes de Caninie                     Canrdne                   2,991      2,991
IBIAPAE&                                                                    11 812
Ibispaba          Canaubal                     535    11,812
Guaraciaba do Norte       2,009
Ibiapina                    923
Sao Benedito              2,894
Tiangum                    1,865
Ubajara                    1,50
Vicosa do Ceara           2,046
LnWRAL                                                                      14,546                3,520
-Litoral de Caiciim
e AcaraL          Litora}           AcsraL  )                  4,655      6,962
ltarerna)
Bela Cruz )               1,383
CNz )
Marco                       924
4lrubsretam                             Itapipoc                  3,236      7,566
Paracuru                  1,248
Sao G. de Aisrante        1,536
Sao lAis de QC2ru89
Train                      1,257
¶DYAL 8/8-14/23      8                 69/150                               91,000               31,800/b
a7 At full developent.
b/   istributed =am  the 75 reminiig uinicipalities under the project.
*  41 Mimidpalties wlected to bheit froa d tic water supply  s8tems.



- 31 -                                                        ANNEX I
Table 1.5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    - CEARA
Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities
(US$ 000)
1986J1"7 19W/I1M  193t/1989 IM/IWO 190/191 1991/12 19/19  193/1Y94  10tet
A. IIATEII RESaUREES aDt1A1PIEI
3567W  671 S URP.?I   1ur                              ,157.3  2r:;64,1          -                        - -  -'/2e
PJIC 1MlCTII                                            407.t  1,342*0   7rl31.l  4.468.8    493.4    410.8    212,7              4.9  149477.4
FEStITLITY ST1OtES                                           -         -   1,025*7     45542     218.2     294           -          -   1,928.5
FISERIES DEKLOPNEIT                                     376.9      185.2     113.5      28.6      12.6         -         -         -      716.8
INSTITUTIIO  ST11111M16                                     -     296.8      362.6     303.5    323.t    368.2    34.4         368.0   2,391.2
-ttuul MATER T    Sat  LEv TW                             1         a91.    3,308.8   ti4., S,l.l   1,04?,9   1,008.5    87.1      372.9  22r236.0
P.   ItRIOLTWL  RERCH
6wERATION OF TEcIULY                                     9.3        59.4     54).1    570.1      752.0    672.)    682.1        691.   41072.e
DIFFUSION OF lECLt                                       35.3          -     279.9     364.7    470.?      462.0    406.2    422.4   2441.2
IISIC SEED PfI TIOI                                         -         -     430.9    353.0    38.7    408.6         432.4    44V,6   2,463.1
8ASiC STtIS                                              173.6    tM1.0    161,4    212.2            -         -         -          -    6".2
S9iu-Tub  AtIOCLTUW. RESEANC                              307.2    210.5   I,419.2   1,4.9   1.611.4   1t543.4    620.5   1.,63.1  9,675.2
1:. RI. El1VIS0N,
:-1 EXTENSION                                           657.7    80,   119110.8  11tW7.7  124818.5  1248.1  12.387.9  12,8.5  74,431.7
SOCIAL FORESTRY                                          58.6       85.5     121.8    162.8      194.4    219.0    242.9        276.3   19361.2
Sj-Tutal U1   EXTENSION                                     716.3     886.0  11,2i       W 55 1i,250.4  134012.9  12,904.1  12s630.8  13t159.8  759792.9
D. NT1NG
MIIETINS MI NATION                                        5.4      127.1     151.2    161.8      172. 5    181.3     188.6      196.1   m,i84.1
SUPPLY  REl                                             570.4      44.5      198.2      24.1    215.1    242.0        15.9         -   1t310.8
IIT SIJPPLY NET70RK                                      73.9      152.2     162.6     173.9    185.4       93.6                   - -    841.6
S.i-,ot,l IdRIETtiIE                                       649.13    323.8      512S.     35$.t   573S.       517.0    204.5      196.1   3,336.5
Et RURAL IUESNTIET CREDIT                                3t084.3  'If 7.1   8540.?2   Y  74.7  $1250.3  llO.47.0  110487,8   tI108.3  61rJ39.7
F. SUPPRT TO SIM.LL RURAL CO    ITIES                    3,086.4   3     .699.7   4r523,2  5S209.2   6Y231.8  6.561.0   /,193.!   1.152.?  43.657.3
S. 8R0JECt CORnDAth t tiIlORIND AND EVALUATION             747.7  14M.2   44060.0  46393.3  46639.6  I4r?38.8  3*.58.4  2137.9  ;.6,006.8
H. TRAINING                                                360.3      622.7    S1J67   1.001.4   1.)23.1   1.')49.0    778.6      4.8i4  6.257.3
Ttl PROJECT COSTS                                         10,8939  108654.1  399856.7  37Q24.9  37.39Q.6  31.558.6  3,9M.09   .4,10,.-? 254.301.6
IRIa 8O  1986  12.17



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    - CEARA
Summary Account by Project Component
(US$)
ml ___                                                                             -- _m  wam
*011 IC VAUD   PNtCt   FEOSIIlltY FI133S  ISTYIIV               iFNtl    W VOIH   OF -i*: SO
*. z1t5ti  to!6T        I
A. CIVl.    1. 109J13                  I.129.h0.0-                         MeI8.20.            -      e~00                                               262- .069 *f"
C. IIEE  Iumis                                  -           -          -          -            -o.  -       -           -                 -                     -      fD
C* 121 l a uli,              -      -    -     -      -       -     -     -      -       -                                                                            3340.
ENICES                                        -          -           -   2m#4.o       56A400.0     237.300.0   175.60*0   56.100.0     59.0.0       4.1tf3. e
t,mIfbID                                      -    73.500.0          -   33.r00.0     68#.o. t071000.0   202,200.0    he.00o.e                -       151,ee
S IeA  lobI W   CI  -  10291E[o                 -    73,50.W -   6120.0    *2^                 e     4eBJC0.0  3V91160.0   w00.0          590.9o.      4.32.3   0
E. 011513351 51511                               -          -          -          -            '             '           '
r. SItIES                                        -          - a.e4etOs.oo-               -            -                  -          -            -              -              -
S. cMun FIIQ
lea.s 1ITIM? cISI                         t.69 .0 s.2os1 o..0 1#40t o  31300.0    t24o60.               457.00.9   315.00,   *21.0.0          960c0.6    4.4ei0.9          WAWA
Ito m _m _ co,
51*es                                       -   697tn.0            -  IS6,73.0    84800.0   1*267.c00.0   sn,7.eo..  420.000.e    263.600.0    24. 6? e0.0
||.W2I M_JE                                  -           - -             -           -            -            -          -           -              -                     -
scL twSin                                    -   223M42.1           -   w9753,6    271It.0 e          M7n.9   22.676.0  *76.40.0    110#7n2.0      f1d61.0e
TOM   SONU                                  -    7115W.40          -   24,720.0    130160.0       1113.10.0   163,00   42,0.0         63#.600      3.W 712.0 
Wi "l SAuEs M  MI#S -                                92.017.4         -  2V.233.6  2.250.268.0   2.012442.0    M3.82O.      M 6UM 4389110 ..0    36.4. .0
3. 0011321.
WNIO.IS   1IIB CllStS-c                                            -    71250.0     60e t.0       91.ttlco    l*  o.4e0.    U1200.0   *.660.0     6445.4113.0 
eIlmR 00l0l2                         287.6w 0,0   6fn'900.          -    6.2000      52400.0      146,160.0    36s00.0   3t#000.0     36,00.0      2.*0 M.0 
-ts!l 001221                            287,020.0    97,500.0         -     520.0    1*2.560.0       237.00 e     92,400.0   07,26.0     49em.6       3.5f06#f00
C.  Wllll31  60RVZCES
111CIEI IINUICII                             -           -          -   10,400.0     4000t.0       8e10.0 e    3Iea.0   54,00.0       12,000.6     1.7*9.0
one  2181CE2                                     611700.e10         -   10,30 e         .009e      46e#60.0    3640.0  6              m71. 36.06 7e212#4*. e
E.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .A                                                                                  -
fo t11  cwon                             Wo91M  - .0    te.o-         -   20.700,0        000.0      227,169.0  1  2274*O.  o4,700.01     .00.e2.0    64163 o                 -
*. slER  _III 11 610  5                 29.3.500.0         -          -           -           -.            -           -          -            -              -              -
1~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ __ __ _ _                                                                   _ __. 1____2  ..    __ _ .. . . .. __  __-  -.. .. . . . .       . . -  -  - . _   - >
Tal "AM       COSTS                       233.320,0 2,348467.4            -  nu24 M.6  2.63241.06    2.476n#.662.0   1401.0 2.59.230        1011,109 7712.0  .0 8se0    2                      a       B
low                                          013k Urno..  207 740.0 1.30.6s.04 14t-*00  32,475.  44,560 .0 *§       i4SO    10110          117.9        s
9ieC Cdwe                                 61924507  &2517622     315.024   17.I4.S    56793,0         352.7.212.  M57A3RA.  46570.2.5         50.1     *S*6111191164                              _t-
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  .
Tod tcal UETOT                             2.722.139.7 14,477.32' ............ 3 3.9Ts26024   716.71,   2.mW>.741,    4.012.78^4.9 2,44J1,17.92.4631073.  698,167.  74.4320.1  .361.13.5 o
ar_.                                      432,165.3 2.146,63l.7         -   63,75t7,2    113,65.0     23i32.7   274,746.2  1v47.0.         50,317.0     5.336.
Fm.13  1e6693.0  3.7*0.60.   944.7*1.2  107.237,5   t2b23.03                                          332247.2   2987*.   164.460,2        50,7*2.      4.231.2*.0



NMtJI                                                     PREC1                                    Phvic.s1
------------- --         g7 D1 Sattt   cNm                                                 CwItl nt*Les
lUAElBI                IIFIIT Sltmv  uIK*  II1EST*iT     RURAt       NUNIT3io No
FUttU   O9L1Y  EiW        IElI           cni           CREtlIfh11ES    EW41MTIll    TRAININS      TftA1            Alm.ut
~~gm3,.'3a~~~~~8    ~ ~   ~~   ~~**...  -  -   ,,*~~~~~~* ~~~*             -;u -1 nz=.             
-     934,300.0   300.400,0              -                                              3 3,619.520.0 10.0  3610?52.0
-  -  -                         -              -          -   RP162.000.0 15.0 2.224.39.0
-  -       -                -               -             -           -     '10,400.0  3O   46,024.0
-       *6.700.0   265000.0             -        747,2O0.O      2061600.0          -   6*17V900.0  :;.e  3060.S53.0
1oroo4.0            -    7,000.0                -               -        6,0Po0.0         -     Q72500.0  'i.0   43M.MOi.0
30,o0o.0     86620.0   349,000.0                -        747*200.0     3374600.0          -   79051.60.0  5.0  3=6570.0
-            -           -     E1,3V.60, #                                            67094560.0  4.0         0.0
-  -  -  -      -             -           -   1.409.00000 10.0  140,900.0
-            -           -               -      :14,3540M .0            -              34. i94.D4.O  0.0       0.e
- - -- - -- - - - - --#--- -  - _--- ------ --------- --- -                 -       ---- - ---
10,000.0   1e0219000.0   60to000,0    67,37,660.0     35t311200.0      337,69.0           - 1;Ms2,6.140.0  1.) 20;171.50.0
174.240,0           -           -               -       3,877.250.0    9.324,400.0         -  41.024.300.0  0.0        0.0
-  -  -  -      -    1,092.000.0          -   1.92.040  4.0          C0.
52,m.0              -          -                -      8.12O037.5    3.260.040.0          -  14.756.249.5  0.0        0.0 
50,610.0            -          -                -      12330,260..01t574.600.             -   6.993.445.0  0.0        0.9
2m,200.0             -          -               -       5.9M.47.5   15.t 40,0              -  6416659904.5  0.0        0.0
- -                      -               -        2271200.0      206,000.0          -   2..044,750t,  10.9  232,475.0
232,100.0            -                          -         76e90         516900.0           -   4--96920.0  10.0  41-56s.0
2328000              -          -                         347    0      724000o.0          -   61l0.0  10.0  654,33.0
-            -           -               -                -      366,000.0          -   1.932.909.0 10,0  193,290.0
312,00.0             -          -               -                -    2,'40.400.0          -  122.2.660.0  10.0 2.22,366.0
312.G0O.0            -          -                -               -    3.10640.0            -  14.156.56.  10.0   1#415465O
-       -          -             -                       -              -          -      245tso.00    0.0     0.0
-            -           -               -                -             - F4#6653.0   O649#653.0  3,9  230,22.7
g~,ooo.o            -           -               -       6.269./47.5   19.023.440..006530  90.24.o0.5  2.5 2300O021.7
w .0o.o   1t021.000.0   640,000.0    67339bo,O    4OrW97.5  J1961040.0 04604.653.0 21M3V,177.5  2.1 4t,27.m77M
54 .         W7P7M5.0   47,000.0                -         721.0m       400,120.0   2309M.7   4427.71.7  0.0           0.0
297129.35    192M036.1   1534619.7              -       2.64245.8    6t245#621.6 1.422.402.6  36iA43,66.1  3.3 1,205.6504
I.1.s29s   10350t6011   841.6*9.7       67.339660.0     43.657.273.3   26,004.761.6   252M.2  54301,630.2  2.2 5.6322.1                                                                     0o i 
-V= ro rs= mu  f       i;: C 6rT:a": -4  wt:. W..   "f. ~.=Su ."4=8994=......................................... t=;::,                                                                      0cg f".........w.::. ::r sru;4:c r r rr  _
63,92.0     2650.22   296.39.4                 -        67.614,5       66730.9   31W2064,4  10907t2634.  7.6   WO6.675.0 
t41006.7    Wr1Z6.9   252r.W5        10,4100.490      596"O666at       SB4* .     M2T572a.9  27W41    39 I.69,002.2                                                                       o      .
0.



34                          ANEX 1
Table 1.7
BRAZIL
IUNfEASR RURAL i/VBUW  RA
NRAST UAL UVEFMW~  WPROM  - CEA
Estimated Schedule of Bank D i8
(US$ Million)
Bank      Qiarter     fLisbursement  Qmulative Disbursenmit    Balanoe
iscal    Ediitg         D1rirg                                  of len
Year                     Qarter    Amont        % Total
1987      Sept 30, 1986    -
Dec 31, 1986    5.0 1,      5.0           4          117.0
Mardi 31, 1987  2.4         7.4                      114.6
June 30, 1987   2.4         9.8           8          112.2
1988      Sept 30, 1987   2.0        11.8                      110.2
Diec 31, 1987    1.8       13.6          11          108.4
MNardh 31, 1988  2.4       16.0                      106.0
AJum 30, 1988   4.1        20.1          16          101.9
1989      Sept 30, 1988   3.5        23.6                       98.4
1-c 31, 1988    3.5       27.1          22           94.8
Mardh 31, 1989  4.7        31.8                       90.2
June 30, 1989   4.8        36.6          30           85.4
1990      Sept 30, 1989   4.4        41.0                       81.0
Dec 31, 1989    4.1        45.1          37           76.9
Mardh 31, 1990  5.4        50.5                       71.5
June 30, 1990   4.5        55.0          45           67.0
1991      Sept 30, 1990   5.0        60.0                       62.0
Dec 31, 1990    4.7        64.7          53           57.3
March 31, 1991  5.4        70.1                       51.9
June 30,1991    5.7        75.8          62           46.2
1992      Sept 30, 1991   5.3        81.1                       40.9
Dec 31, 1991    5.4        86.5          71           35.5
Mardh 31, 1992  3.0        89.5                       32.5
June 30, 1992   5.7        95.2          78           26.8
1993      Sept 30, 1992   4.0        99.2                       22.8
Dwc 31, 1992    2.3       101.5          83           2D.5
Mardh 31, 1993  3.0       104.5                       17.5
June 30, 1993   3.0       107.5          88           14.5
1994      Sept 30, 1993   3.0       110.5                       11.5
Dec 31, 1993    2.9       113.4          93            86
Mardh 31, 1994  2.0      115.4                        6.6
June 30, 1994   2.0       117.4          96            4.6
1995      Sept 30, 1994   1.6       119.0                        3.0
Dec 31, 1994    1.5       120.5          99            1.5
March 31, 1995  1.5       122.0         100             -
I/  Thitial deposit of 1S$5.0 million inito the Special Accwnt.



-35 -                           ANNEXlI
BR~AZIL
NWEASr WnAL EVMNW PROGM
NDKaWASrAL DEVEIMRff PX)JECr - CARA
AllocatiOf loan Proceeds
Mwt
Categoxy                         Item                               (U$ Milli))
I        Water Resotwres  eve10opent.                               12.6
70% of ependiture
(of *iich US$7.9 million for pulic irrigation)
II        Agrlctltural Research.                                      2.2
50% of eediture up to an aggregte disbursement
under this category of US$1.1 million; 30% thereafter until
the a     te reaches US$2.0 million; and 10% threafter
Tn         Rural Exteision.                                           16.9
5% of eKPenditure up to an aggregate disbursemet
under this category of US$11.9 million;
30% tiereafter until the aggregate rewbes
US$15.1 million; and 10% thereater
IV        Credit.                                                   42.4
70% of expnditure
V        1lrktirg.                                                   1.1
50% of exenditure
VI        Support to Sull Comuiities.                                27.0
70% of exenditure
VII        Aministration.                                              6.1
50% of exenditure up to an agregate disburseint
under this category of US$2.8 million; 30% thereafter
until aggregate readbs US$5.7 miUnon; and 10% thereafter
VIII        Traing.                                                     1.5
50% of elxnditure up to an aggregate disbursent
unier this categDry of US$0.6 million; 30% theafter
util aggregate reaches US$1.4 and 107% thereafter
ix        Unallocated                                                12.2
122.0



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Aspects
Federal and Regional Levels
1.        An Interministerial Commission (IC) for the Northeast Rural
Development Program (NRDP), chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of
Interior, and comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Finance,
Planning, Land Reform and Agriculture and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has
overall policy and planning responsibility for the NRDP. The Director for the
Program of Support to Small Farmers within SUDENE would be the regional
coordinator of the NRDP in which the proposed project participates. The
Directorate would receive policy backing for its work through the Regional Rural
Development Council (RDC) linked to SUDENE's Deliberative Council, which
includes all of the Northeast State Governors. The RDC would consist of the
Superintendent of SUDENE, senior management of the Directorate representatives,
of the involved federal Ministries and banks and the Northeast State Secretaries
responsible for program coordination.
State and Local Levels
2.        A State Rural Development Council (SRDC) chaired by the Governor with
the Secretary of Planning as Executive-Secretary and incluting the Secretaries
of Agriculture (SAAB), Works and Services (SOEC), and representatives from
participating banks, SUDENE regional office and beneficiary associations, would
provide overall guidance for rurr:. development activities. A State Coordinating
Commission (SCC) chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture and composed of
CEPA-CE's Executive Secretary and representatives of all executing agencies
operating within the project, would ensure proper implemertation of SRDC
guidelines and integration of project activities. The SCC would meet monthly to
plan, supervise and evaluate the implementation of the annual work plans to
ensure theircompatibility with overall project goals and methodology.
3.        CEPA-CE, a foundation with its own budget, salary structure and
personnel administration procedures, located within the Secretariat of Planning,
would be the agency responsible for administering and coordinating all
federally-funded rural programs and for fully integrating them under the
project. It would be responsible for: (a) consolidating annual coperating plans
drafted by the executing agencies (Table 2.1); (b) supervising project
performance and advising the SRDC on institutional or technical difficulties;
(c) monitoring progress and preparing reimbursement requests; (d) evaluating
ongoing projects; (e) administering training activities and the community
development fund.



- 37 -
4.        CEPA-CE would reorganize its administrative structure to adjust to the
needs of the NRDP (Chart 1). Its headquarters in Fortaleza would have up to
about 130 technicians organized into an executive secretariat directly in charge
of three departments, namely: The Technical Department comprising the Planning
and the Rural Development Divisions, the Institutional Development Department
comprising the Institutional and the Human Resource Development Divisions, and
the Administrative/Finance Department comprising the Administrative and Finance
Divisions. The Rural Development Division would be responsible for supervising
and monitoring project implementation through the elever regional and
sub-regional offices, as well as for administering the community development
fund. Regional/subregional offices' staff would reach 92 (12 managers, 44
technicians and 36 support staff). Each office would typically be composed of a
regional-coordinator and three to five officers covering economic activities
(such as extension) and social activities (such as SSRC).
B. Project Execution
5.        See Chart 2.
C. Training
6.        All training programs would be emphasized and would be centrally
coordinated and administered by the Human Resource Division within CEPA-CE
Planning Division to avoid duplication and conflicting strategies among State
agencies. The five types of training given would be:
(a)  Induction Trainin.  The objective would be to give an initial
orientation for staff, farmers and community leaders as to the basic
project concepts, components expectations and the underlying strategy
of "participation" in the implementation of project activities. It
would be given by CEPA-CE;
(b) Project Component Related Training. The objective would be to provide
technical training by component for project staff. Responsibility for
assessing the needs and undertaking the execution of the training
program would remain with the implementing agencies, but CEPA-CE's
Human Resource Division would have to give its clearance before
releasing project funds;
(c) Management Training. The objective would be to improve both CEPA-CE's
own managerial skills (both at central and regional level) as well as
those of the implementing agencies. Though organized by CEPA-CE the
courses themselves would be given by consultants;
(d) Training of Trainers. CEPA-CE in cooperation with SUDENE would train
trainers usually with the assistance of consultants; and
(e) Farmer Training. Farmers would receive training on specific
components, such as credit, marketing and community development. In
each case, the respective implementing agency would be responsible for
the training.



- 38-
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
7.        Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to simplify
reporting requirements to provide accurate and timely information for project
management and to allow annual planning. CEPA-CE's Technical Department would
receive from executing agencies monthly reports on key physical and financial
indicators. In addition, CEPA-CE's Evaluation Unit within the Intitutional
Development Division would be strengthened to assist regional offices to carry
out ongoing evaluation of project activities. State evaluation activities under
the proposed project would comprise: (a) a baseline survey; (b) ongoing
evaluation and special studies of selected topics; (c) mid-term evaluation; and
(d) post project evaluation.



AIlNEX 2
- 39 -                                       Table 2.1
BRAZIL
NOFM04S RMRAL   nW  PROM
NUREAM RRAL DEVEIPMN PW  - -EARA
List of Exeutinig a o             Agencies
Project Activity                      Main Exectig Ag          Main ConabortdM Agecies
Water Resurce Deve1opunt
-Rural Comimnity Water Supply         CAM-CE                  S903, Private Contractors, Mmicipalities
-State Fiblic Irrltion                SAAB-E                   Consultanwt, Private Contractors
-feasibility Studies                  SAAB-CE                  Conltants
-Fingerling Production                SAAB-CE                   4A=EM-C, EPA(E, £NOCS, ODIEVASF
Adaptive Agriultdural Reearch
-Studies, Trias, Observation Units    EPA(E                    CPAaSA, EMBRAPA, COxwutaets
-Basic Seed Production                EPACE                    BME<
Agricultural Extension
-Agricultural Extemsion               IMA]ER-CE                EMARUER, EPACE
-Social Forestry                     EBAIER-(E                 IBIF
Rural Credit                          BB, ENEB B=C, BE         EMAJER-CE, WamwO
Marketing Services
-Marketing Infonmation and            (EASA-CE/SIMA             MAZKER-CE
Orientation Service
-Storage an Input Supply Network      ODMAXM)/OCEC             Cooperatives, aO)tQK
-Food WhDlesaling Serviee             05AL                     (FASA-CE, Private Retailers
-Marketing Fund                       aDm                      OCEC
Support to Snall. Rural Cmndities
-Ci2unity Activities                  Camunity Grcps           CEPA-E, R4ATER-CE
-Technical Assistance and Training    CEPA-CE                  1MATER-t
Project Administration and Trnin
-Admnistration, Mrtorirg aid          CEPA-(E                   =MENE, al project executing agencies,
Evaluation                                                    Consultants
-Trainirg                             (EPA-CE and Executirg
Agencies



-40 -                                                 ANNER-2
Chart I
NORTEAS RURAL ObLOPMENT PROGRAM
NOR ST DRURAL    OPMENTVPRoCT (CERA)
PRo9sct CooibwIonnd       _ ManagCem   Chat
momww ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~       n            ,OWW ,o e cc ., .._._ . _ _  ._ .
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o _l.- oeGa                                             C (la
. . rso~~~~ptm               S      .£F WFC ofr I Sr       
NW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NO
lcRre
o"m~~~~~~~
SW_ r.IO  L
"IC Os*flce
LOCAL LemT
E~~~~ecurw Agrc5



.
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT VI PROJECT (CEARA)
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IMPLEM.                   1         18         1          1          1
PROJECT COMPONENT                       AGENCiY    1986  1987  1988  1989  1990   19911992  199
WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Public Irrigotion Schomes               -SAA8-Ct                _
Santo Antonio de Russas                .SAAt-CE               EZZ      _  _
Riocho do Songue                       1SAAB-CE                Z_
Other Schemes (2I                       SAAB-CE
InsUltution Srengthening                 SAA0Ct                          _
reosibilicy Studies (NRDP subsequent phose) SAAB-CE           _____
Domestic Waler SuPPty                   ,CCPA-Ct            __
rish Hatcheries                          SAAB-CE
Ouixodo Unit (exponsion)                5AAB -CE
Inhamuns/Solgodo Unit (new)            ;SAAB -CE
oarbalho Unil (exponsion)               SAAB-CE
AGR. RESEARCf & BASIC SEED PRODUCTION   tEPA-Ct              _
Baosic Agroecologicol Studies            EPA-CE                       - _           _
Civil Works                              EPA-CE
Reseorch Trials                          EPA-Ct                      ..
ObsCrvltion Units                        |EPA-CE           '_-_iS                  ..                                   -
Basic Seed Production                    tPA-CE                                                      T                        -     -
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                   EMATER-CE
C~i'iI Works                             EMATER-CE
Demonslrotion Units                      EMATER-CE         ___________
Soclol roreslry Nurserirs                EMATER-CE            -_                                    -_ 
RURAL INVESTUtNT CREDIT                  9&B8NP.BEC.BtNCC
MARKCTING                                                  __
Marketing information Service            SIMA                         _-                                                        _
Storoae/I put Supply Network             CODAGRO/OCEC                        _            _                                        _
Oasic Food Supply                        COBAL               r                                                                 m
Marketing fund                           CODAGRO                                   m
SUPORT TO SMALL RURAL COMMUNITIES                           _
Hiring of CD Agents                      CEPA-CC t                                  m     L
Train,og of CD Agents                    CEPA-CE            _
Community Activilies                     CtATER-CE          _       _                -           m         -         -                   -
PROJECT DiilNlSTRiOt1N & TRAININ4G       CEPA-CE
induecion Training                       CEPA-CE             _
Mnagemen'tf itchat;al Training           CEPA-CE   _   _             _                                                                    m
M,enitorlng   Ongoing Evoluotion         CEPA-CL_
Mid-Term Review                          CEPA-CE
_ a                                       Cpt-Ct -o.   view  .CEPA--C,
Lag end,
Activilios financed under tho ongoing POLONOROESTE projecl (Loon 1924-BR)    -
Preparary Aclivilies                                                                                                                                                    Pt >4
rt s4
" .3r'



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
A. Financial Benefits
1.        The estimated increase in crop and livestock production (Table 3.1)
due to the project was derived from nine illustrative farm models. The farm
models (Table 3.2) take into account the present low level of production and the
assumption that only relatively simple on-farm investments will be made by
farmers. The financial rates of return range from 11% to 40%, with a weighted
average rate of 15%. The projected increases in crop yields are shown in Table
3.3. The impact of the project on agricultural production would be achieved
through a combination of increased productivity and the expansion of an cropped
area by about 59% (mainly resulting from improved security of land tenure). The
increased productivity would result from increasing the cropping intensity on
irrigated lands, more widespread use of improved seeds and better cultivation
practices. The expansion of the cropped area would be possible due to the
increased use of animal traction. Cropping patterns are not expected to change
dramatically but in the rainfed areas use of drought-resistant crops (such as
short-cycle maize and grain sorghum) and perennial crops would be encouraged.
In areas benefiting from irrigation, farmers are expected to increase the
proportion or the more profitable cash crops such as fruits and vegetables.
Expansion of the cattle and goat herds (for both milk and meat production) would
occur mainly from improved animal husbandry and better feeding, resulting from
increased use of artificial pastures (such as buffel grass), cactus and legume
fodder trees (algaroba). At full development (Year 14) the annual incremental
marketed production generated by the project is estimated to be US$64.0 million
(in November/December 1985 farm-gate prices) with 80% of the incremental value
of production resulting from crops (of which 32% from subsistence crops, 27%
from cotton and 21% from fruits and vegetables) and 20% from animal products.
2.        The increased production would raise incomes substantially and would
give greater food security as thle effects of droughts would have been reduced.
Net annual family farm benefits, which currently range from US$65 to US$320 per
capita after taking into account supplemental income from off-farm work, would
increase at full development to US$220 and US$430, respectively. The expansion
of agricultural activities alone would create new on-farm employment
opportunitiei equivalent to about 81,000 man-years annually. Most of this
demand would be for unskilled labor that would be met with family labor.
However, many small rural community subprojects would also generate demand for
local employment, possibly of a semi-skilled nature.
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
3.        The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to be about 13%
with a 20-year analysis (Table 3.4). The cost stream for the economic analysis



- 43 -
is based on five elements: (a) all Ceara project costs, except those related to
domestic water supply, feasibility studies for NRDP second phase irrigation
project, sociai forestry, marketing fund and the community development
component, or 75% of total project cost; (b) 10% of regional administration
costs financed under the Northeast Rural Development Project-Sergipe (Loan
2523-BR); (c) 13.9% of regional research costs financed under the Northeast
Rural Development Projects for Sergipe and Bahia (this percentage is equal to
the proportion of Ceara's rural population within the Northeast's rural
population); (d) 80% of Ceara's share of cadastral activity costs financed under
Loan 2593-BR; and (e) recurrent costs on a declining basis from Year 9 to 12 and
25% of Year 8 costs during Years 13 to 20.
4.        The evaluation of incremental net benefits included two elements: (a)
benefits from 37,600 farmers expected to use investment credit (8,O0Oirigated
farms and 29,600 rainfed farms) equivalent to 31% of the 122,800 beneficiaries
in the project area; and (b) an estimate for the incremental benefits accruing
to the reitaining rainfed farmers who would be reached by the extension service
and who wduld adopt improved farming practices without using institutional
credit (24,000 or 28% of the remaining 85,000 farmers). No benefits were
included from the fish hatchery and social forestry subcomponents because they
are too small to have any substantial weight when compared to on-farm benefits.
5.        Economic prices (Table 3.5) at the farm-gate were derived for the main
traded goods, including cotton, maize, rice, and chemical fertilizers, taking
into account international trading prices, freight, insurance, processing and
handling costs with price trends projected according to those estimated by the
Bank's Economic Analysis and Projection Department at 1985 constant prices.
Sorghum and cassava were valued at financial farm-gate prices. All other
outputs and inputs (including labor) were adjusted by the standard conversion
factor (0.83) to account for domestic price distortions.
6.        Sensitivity tests (Table 3.6) showed that the rate of return is
moderately sensitive to possible variations in costs and benefits. If benefits
fall by 17% or project costs rise by 21%, the rate of return would fall below
the estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three years in
achieving project results, such as might occur during a severe drought, would
result in a 10% rate of return. Also, a lag of two years in funding productive
investments combined with a decline of 20% in project benefits, such as might
result from chronic delays in counterpart funding, would result in a 8% rate of
return.



- 44 -                                               Aex3
Wjle 3.1
BRAZi
NMASr UIAL iEvmff  FGR4         M
NMWST rURAL IEVEW PRWECT - CEARA
Total Ammal Area, Marketable Production and Value of Major Crops and Livestock withot Project and at Ful Deopnet
Wi,thot Project        At Ful DvoMt 
Crops and                  Area t/    Marketable      Area LI Maketajle            Ar'1   Marketable        Vaue
tivestock                   (ha)      Production       (haF  Praduction                   fProdution    (US$ '000)
(tans)                  (tans)                        (tons)
Arn¢al ard Semi-Peremnial Crops:-         -             -         -                            -             43,475
Cassava (fresh root)        -        120,472          -      155,343               -       34,871         --W
Maize                       -         29,194          -      40,481                -        11,287            997
Beans                       -          1,232          -      75,277                -       74,045          14,8E6
Sortbgn                           -                   -      67,656                -       67,656           4,794
Rice                        -            140          -       1,705                _         1,565           221
C-otton (grain)             -         31,417          -      100,110               -        68,693         17,191
S. Cane                  5,978       169,504        3,788   122,460              (2,190)  (47,044)          (454)
Tomato                     438        19,491          876    39,201                 438    19,710           2,649
S%eet Pepper                -           -             438     5,256                 438     5,256           1,478
Chyote                     142         7, 1Q0         426    21,300                 284    14,200            670
melon                       -           -             395     2,370                 395      2,370            166
Carrot                     284         3,550          284     3,550                -          -               -
Perenndal Crops:          50.388          -          58.328       -                 7,940       -            8 663
Cashew nut              317010        10,589       31,010    11,262                -          673
Custard Apple                           -             850     2,490                 850     2,490            420
Guava                       -           -             850     6,149                 850     6,149             356
Avocado                  4,380        18,067        5,694    23,102               1,314      5,035            459
Maracock                  3,942       25,623        4,974    32,334               1,032     6,711           1,019
Bananas                  2,840        14,626        4,149    45,914               1,309    31,288           1,847
okang                       -           -           2,19D    32,781               2,190    32,781           3,980
Lemon                       -           -             395     4,703                 395     4,703            390
Coffe                    7,706        6,111         7,706     6,111                 -        -                -
coconut                    510          765           510       765                 -        -
Total rtoDS:             322,187          -         512,766        -              190,579      -             52,138
Beef (Live s1nIgMt)                      34                  10,859                        10,825
Goat meat (Live veight)                  51                   6,870                         6,819           ,854
Milk ('000 1Lter)                       646                  15,151                         14,505          2,529
Total T.ivestok                           -                  -                                 -            12,026
64,164
1/  Area under Tdre croppirg (consort) cannot be differentiated per crop



BRAZtL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEvgLoPENT PROGRAM
NORThEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CZARA
Characteristics of Illustrative Farm Models Used In Financtal and Economic Analy es
Esttmated                                                                                            Net Family Prm Benefits
Model No.    Distribution    Sse  (ha)                     rmi                        ain          Climate5/                  (US$ )                  Years to           pFR
of Fares       Wo     wp        Vype-             Livestock       Location                         NO Project  VI Project  lIncr.   Full Devel.   (over 2Oyrs)
(at Full Devel.)                         X
I           11000           5     15        Rainfed              D.A.         Litoral          Semi-Arld          542           708       166        5              20.2
2            1700          37     37        Rainfed           Beef/Milk       Litoral          Semi-Arid         1546          1786       242        9              11.2
Goats
3             790           7      71/      Rainfed/Private  BeeftMilk        Vales            Semi-Arid          542          1675      1133       11              14.0
Irrigated                         Irrigavels
4            1420           6      62/      Rainted/Private      D.A.         Baturite         Wet-Dry           1265          1668       403        7              40.3
Irrigated
5            2065           4     15        Rainfed              D.A.         Ibtapaba         Semi-Arid          734          1387      653         4              24.2
6            4380          13     132/      Rainfed/Private      D.A.         Ibtapaba         $em-Arid           1918         2585       667        9              21.6
Irrigated
7           38770          13     53        Rainfed           Beef/Milk       Sertoes       Arid/Semi-Arid        384          1322       938        5              14.3
Goats
8             460          13     133/      Rainfed/Private      D.A.         Sertoes       Arid/Semi-Arid        406           773       367        4               30.4
Irrigated
9             975           5      61/      Public Irrigated Beef/Milk        All Regions      Var.               431          1460      1O29         5              13.0
TOTAL        61, 5604/
1/  of which 2 ha ore trrtgated
7/ of which an incremental .2 ha is irrigated
VI  of which 1.5 he Is irrigated
4/ Equivalent to 30S of the benefieiaries recetving institutionalized credit plus 302 of the remaining rainfed farmers vho will adopt improved technology ustig othei
sources of credit
5/ See Map 1BRD 196S3
FE
w w



- 46 -                                               AMEX 3
Table 3.3
Page I of 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
Estimated Areas and Yields of Major Crops at Farm Level without Project and at Full Development
Area (ha)               Crop/Pasture Yield (Kg or AU/ha)
Regional Planning Units/Model                 WO     WP            WO                 WP       _           increase
Litoral
- Model 1 (Rainfed with D.A. a/             5.0  15.0
Crops:                                   T.    4.
Cons. Cassava + Maize + Beans             1.3  T1.       8000/380/200        9600/450/240            20/18/20
Cons. Cassava t Sorghum + Beans           -    0.5              -           10000/1000/240                -
Cons. Maize + Beans                       -    0.5              -              530/340
Cons. Sorghum + Beans                      -    0.5             -              1350/320
Cons. Cashew nut + Bens                  0.8   1.0           350/300           380/350               9/17
Cashew nut                                1.2   1.0          380-350           400-380               5
Pasture/Forage                            1.5   3.6            0.4 b/           1.5 b/
Native Pasture                            2.0    .0            0. -              .1i
Improved N. Pasture                      0.5   1.0             0.2              0.2
Artificial Pasture                        -    0.5              -               1.2
Planted Forage                            -    0.1              -               5.0
Forest, Fallow and Other                 0.2   6.9              -                  -
- Model 2 (Rainfed + Cattle/Goats)         37.0  37.0
mrops:                                   10.1  10. 8
Cons. Cassava + Maize + Beans            4.0   2.0        8000/380/200       9600/450/240            20/18/20
Cons. Cassava + Sorghum + Beans           -    0.7              -           10000/1000/240                -
Cons. Maize f Beans                      0.2   0.5           450/280           1350/320              18/21
Cons. Sorghum + Beans                     -    1.0                             530/340                    _
Beans                                    0.3    -              450
Cons. Cashew nut + Beans                  -    2.0              -              380/350                    -
Cashew nut                               5.3   3.3             400               400                      -
Guava (intercropped with Beans)            -    0.5             -              9000/315                   -
Custard Apple (interc. with Beans)        -    0.5              -              3200/315                   -
Coconut (nut)                            0.3   0.3          1800-1500          1800-1500                  -
Pasture/Fo.age                           19.6  16.2            3.7 b/           6.4 b/
Native Pasture                          17.5   8.0             0.1              0.1
Improved N. Pasture                      1.0   5.0             0.2              0.2
Artificial Pasture                        1.0   3.0            1.2              1.2
Planted Forage                           0.1   0.2             5.0              5.0
Forest, Fallow and Other                  7.3  10.0
Valleys with irrigation potential (Litoral, Ibiapaba, Sertoes)
- Model 3 (Rainfed/Irrig. + Cattle)         7.0   7.0
Crops: Rainfed                           T.7   2.0
Cons. Cotton Herb. + Maize + Beans        2.2    -         330/320/250             -
Cons. Cotton Herb + Beans                 -    1.7              -               480/380                   -
Cons. Maize + Beans                      0.3   0.3           500/300            610/370              22/23
Cotton Herb                              0.5    -              500                 _
Beans                                    0.4    -              500



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3.3
Page 2of 3
Area (ha)                 Crop/Pasture Yield (Kg or AU/ha)
Regional Planning Units/Model                  WO      WP                iOW~e-ase
Crops - Irrigated                           -   1.5
Bananas (intercropped vith Beans)          -    ;                -             26ton/900
Lemon (intercropped with Beans)             -   0.5              -             20ton/800
Melon                                       -   0.5              -             6000
Pasture/Forage                            2.8  0.5              0.3 b,           5.0 b
Native Fssture                                                  :T. -
Irrigated Planted Forage                   -   0.5               -               10.0
Forest/Fallow and Other                   0.8  3.0
Baturite
- Model 4 (Rainfed/Irrig with D.A.)          6.0  6.0
Crops - Rainfed                            2.5  3.0
Cons. Coffee t Bananas                    0.8  177            400/4500          400/4500                    -
Cons. Rice + Maize                        0.3  0.2            1000/250          1200/300                20/20
Rice                                       -   0.3               -                1650                      -
Bananas                                    1.2  1.5             9000            10-12000                11-33
Sugar Cane (intercropped with Beans)   0.2  0.2                35 ton         40ton/380                 14/-
Crops - Irrigated                         0.3  0.5
Carrot                                    0.2  0,2              12500            12500                      -
Chayote                                   0.1  0.3            50 tonO            50 ton
PasturelForage                             1.9  0.6             0.8 bl            1.5
Native Pasture                            1.7   -               0.1                0
Artificial Pasture                        0.1  0.4              1.2               1.2
Planted Forage                            0.1  0.2              5.0               5
Forest/Fallow and Other                    1.6  1.9
Ibiapaba
Model 5 (Rainfed with D.A.)               4.0 15.0
Crops:                                    4.0  5.5
Cons. Cassava t Maize, Beans              4.0  3.0         10000/500/300    11900/580/350               19/16/15
Cons. Cassava + Sorghum + Beans            -   2.0               -            11600/1000/340                -
Karacock (intercropped with Reans)         -   0.5               -              5-8000/450
Pasture/Forage                             -   4.0               -                1.5 b/
Native Pasture                              -   7                -               0.1
Artificial Pasture                         -   1.0               -                1.2
Forest/Fallow and Other                    -   5.5
- Model 6 (Rainted/Irrig. with D.A.)        13.0 13.0
Crops - Rainfed                           67.6 TT7
Cons. Cassava + Maize t Beans             1.2  1.0         10000/500/300     11900/580/350              19/16/15
Cons. Coffee + Avocado                    1.0  1.0           ,00/1500          500/1500                     -
Avocado                                   0.7  0.7          4500-4000         4500-4000
Coffee                                     1.5  1.5          800-650             800-650
New Avocado (intercropped with Beans)   -   0.3                  -              6000/430
Karacock (intercropped with Beans)        0.9  0.9         5-8000/450          5-8000/450                   -
Sugar Cane (intercropped with Beans)   1.3  0.8             40ton/360         46ton/430                 15/19



-                                                             8 
ANNX 3
Table 3.3
Page 3 of 3
Area (ha)               Crop/Pasture Yield (Ki or AU/ha
Reslonal Planning Units/Model                WO      WP            WO               VP                  Z increase
Orange (intercropped vith Seans)          -   Q*5               -            18ton/410
Crovs - Irrigated                        0.1  0.3
Tomatoes                                 0.1  02         22.Ston/Crop      22.Ston/Crop
Sweet Pepper                              -   0.1              -              12 ton
PasturelForage                           1.7  1.6            0.4 b,            1.S b/
Native Pasture                           TTg -T               -T              -T
Artificial Pasture                       0.2  1.1            1.2               1.2
Forest/Fallow and ether                  4.6  4.4              -
Sertoes
- Model 7 (Rainfed + Cattle/Goats)          13.0 53.0
Ctovs:                                    =.  9.4
P Cotton (intercropped with Kaize+Beans34 T T            75-210/400/200   90-240/520/260             14/30/30
Cons. Cotton Herb + Beans                 -   5.0              -              420/250                    -
Cons. Maize + Seans                      0.6  1.2           500/300           610/370                22/23
Cons. Sorghum + Beans                     -   1.0              -             1350/320                    -
Pasture/Forage                           4.7 24.0             1.0 b/          9.5 b
Native Pasture                           ZW 11-5             0.1               t
Improved N. Pasture                      0.5  7.0            0.2              0.2
Artifical Pasture                        0.1  5.0            1.0              1.0
Planted Forage                           0.1  0.5            4.0              4.0
Forest. Fallow and Other                 3.3 19.6              -                                         -
- Model 8 (Rainfed/Irrig.with D.A.)       13.0 13.0
Crops - Rainfed                        -4.    4.0
P.Cotton(intercropped with Maize+Beans4.4   1.0          75-210/400/200   90-240/520/260             14/30/30
Cons. Cotton Herbs + Beans               -    2.0              -              420/250                    -
Cons. Maize + Beans                     0.5   0.5           500/300           610/360                22/23
Cons. Sorghum + leans                    -    0.5              -           1350/3200/350                 -
Crops-Irrigated                          -    1.5
nice                                     -    aT               -             2300/crop
Beans                                    -    1.0              -             750/crop
Pasture/Forage                          4.7   5.2            1.0 bt           1.5 b/
Native Pasture                          4  7                   i 0.1
Improved N. Pasture                     0.5   0.5            0.2              0.2
Artificial Pasture                      0.1   0.6            1.0              1.0
Planted Forage                          0.1   0.1            4.0              4.0
Forest, Fallow and Other                3.4   2.3              -                 -
All Regions
- Model 9 (Rainfed/trrig.4Cattle)           0   6.0
Crops - Rainfed                         3.    -
Cons. Cotton Herb+Maize+Beans)          2.2    -         330/320/250             -
Cons. Maize + Beans                     0.5    -           500/300               _
Cotton Herbs                            0.5    -             500                 _
Beans                                   0.2    -             500                 -
Crops - Irrigated                         -   1.5
sananas (intercropped with leans)         -   :S               -            26ton/900
Cotton Herb/leans                         -   1.0              -            1050/1000
Pasture/Forae                            1.6  4.5            0.2 b/           9.8 b/
Native Pasture                                 =-            0.- 
Artificial Pasture                        -   4.0              -              1.2
Irrigated Planted Forage                  -   0.5              -              10.0
Forest/Fallow and Other                   -    -
a/   D.A. -  Draft Animal
b/   Total number of AUs - (Animal-Units)



BRAZ.IL
NORTHEAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT _(iP.ARA)
Project F.conomic Analysis
(in Millions of Cruzeiroa of Nov./Dec. 1905)
I 2                                                                          0       U1      12       33       14      Is       1£       17      to
FMJ WIFFTS
NET O"-Fw PEI~FTS                      -4254.9 -104772.6  -88849.5  -39127.1   -1866.4   3311.0  36271.9 134860. 260614.3 341145.4 362694.6 35802.? 364700.6 3784004 M3469.2 370524.4 35641.6 35951.3
TOIAL 0NFA84 JARIIKEITAL. NET ftENEFITS  -42540.9 -104772.6  -8884.5  -39827.1  -8186.4   3311.0 36?71.9 13486.9 26064o3 341145.4 3626?4.6 35802.7 3647008 37890.2 3814692 37054.4 3564716 3S9'l.
PIlIACT COSTS
IRRIIIAIIN                               2759.3   9128.1  41649.5  25050.2   4286.2   3842.   2831.7  1762.0            -            -       -        -            -        -       -        --
RESEARC                                  1559.0   1341.4   8186.0   8686.7   7951,5   7597.9  72,76.4  7236.8  6875.0  560.5  4342.0  3075.5  1809.0  1489.0 IW 1609.0 109.   18090   160.0
EXTENSION                                2534.1   2978.3  6W591.4  62351. 0   65679o.2  63901.6  62160.1 62224.0 59160.0  40262,0  37364.0 2646.0  15568.0  3368.0  1556.0  1556.0  155680  1556.0
NM11E11K                                 3610.1   1779.2   2703.0   1737.5   2652.9   2433.6   970.4   980.3   85.0   697.5   540.0   382.5   225.0   225.0   295.0   225.0   M2.0   225.0
ANIlNISTRATION                           5230.9  12107.8  24882.1  25016.5  24994.5  20059.6  11607.0  12945.8  99792  9?31.8  7484.4  6237.0  6287.0  623.0  62)7.0  6237.0  62137.0  6237.0
URAtNIWB                                 2491.6   4026.1   5668.    566%.8   5427.9   5294.6  3778.6  2265.1  2152.0  1749.5  134v5.0   941.5   538.0   5380   538,0   5380.0   538.0   538.0
S'EGIINM  P1068R6 CODI3ONAIII            3019,0   1810.0  21013,0          -        -         -        --                        -                -       -        -        -        -       -
W3r10gSL RESEARCHI 1                      858.0   1491.0   1491.0          -                  -        -                -       -        ---                                        -
RX'.I0WU RESEARCH 11                     1137.0   1226.0   1102.0   1066.0   1022.0   1022.0  1013.0           -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -'
XE'I1W. LOll TEOME  FRJEr.T             33715.0  33715.0  33715.0  33715.0  33715.0           -       -        -        -                -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
TOTAL. FlUid  COSTS                     57914.0  70302.9  186688.1 628W2.7  145641.2  104151'.0 95637.2 8738.8  79021.  61504.3 51075.4  37102.5 24377.0  24377.0 24371.0  24377.0  243)7.0  24377.0
IOYA,. FlOCT INERINEITM. NEt SENFITS  -100454.9 -175075.5 -275537.6 -20271.9.8 -153827.6 -100346.0 -59365.3  47476.1 181793.1 276097.1 311619.2 37020.2 340323.8 354523.21 357092.2 346147.4 312094.6 13520.3



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3.5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
Principal Prices Used or Financial and Economic Analysis
(Cruzeiros in Constant Nov/December 1985 prices)
Price
Selected Products                  Unit  Financial            Economic
- Imported Products                                        1986 1987 1990 1995
Cotton                           Kg      2225            2169 2258 4095 4154
Maize                             Kg      785            1610 1459 1797 1797
Rice (paddy)                     Kg      1260            1587 1470 2270 2214
- Non Traded Products
Cassava (fresh root)             Ton  228800                   228800--
Sorghum                          Kg   630               ---630- -
- Imported Inputs
Urea (45% N)                     Kg      2275            2185 2416 2807 2958
Triple Super Phosphate (42% P205)Kg    2805              2176 2176 2212 2336
Potassium Chloride (60% K 0)    Kg       2645            1696 1696 1838 1879
- All Other Inputs/Outputs:                            Financial Price x.83 1/
1/   Standard conversion factor
Source: Bank Mission



- 51 -
'AMIIX  3
Table 3.6
NOR-O' AST RU&AlU     V          Mh                       (clOGA
project S t ty 3Analysis
omi U0w  T 8111*  uJIm  61  usn
l.owT           4   W 2U126 v *SI                1h Na       M   MnS g*I1mLm2SwSLS3ym
c.Mor          14 3..  3n.ma   31439.4m*   S.910.4    61.2.5  -12Mn.m    -v.,m.e    U.Ut.t  -12,14.7  -80,17.5
UP 101         76498.3  160,64.7  244,.    49739.9   -7,6.,  -91.83.  -30433M2    4.90.7   -6.M                          -14741.0
UP 201           6,937.9   t1104.2   175270.5   4.70.5   -h23.4  -l394.t -413.M.?  -76470.2  45162.6  -219,301.4
UP 502        -201.743.4  -111.5??.t  -33.410.8  219#0.2  -23W.?  -370.076.1  -257.0  -21.151    -360.s.9  -42.917
VAN 1in        215.619.2   299.7#5.5  383.951.9   66450.8   131,452.9    479286.  -205.212.4   132,211.2   5704S6.1  -108.62.1
Dow 201      2205479.7   3694.40   453,512.3   76011.3  201t013.3   116.947.6  -13.61a.9   31,71.    1229.2    58933.3
O  502        493.641.0  379,027.3   429193.6  914,692.6  409P64.7   35952.3    73.0 4   410452.   335M310.5  26,614.7
LAS I YAR- -                      -           -                                                    31,8.5    56442.1  -11.253.8
LAS 2 YEARS           -           -           -           -           *                       *           -   I8544.    50".7
LAO 3 TMIIS           -           -           -           -           -                                               - -  -    9
WO         RATES OF EtEI  OF IIET SIlt
.TOT    lUp 102       lP .20      UP 501    DOW 101    Vh   2            SU  LAO I E  LAO 2 LB     WLAS 3 YENS
cMTOT             12.953      3.938       4          1685        11.899      10.652       5.370      11.831      10.68        9.80
UP 10%            12.003    1.9S3       :3.1;       15.992      10.893       9.619       4.245      10.M12       9.9         9.177
uP 202           11.088      12.0 o      .:..83      15.177       e 955       8.658       3.203      10.051       9.t84       8.437
UP Sol            '.458       9.710      :0.052      12.983       7.473       6.122       0.464       1.814       7.109       6.513
DW l10t          14.03P      14.9.3      15.784      17.M74      12.983      11.769       6.593      12.128      11.74       10.815
MW 202           15.177      16.068      16.85       18.755      14.160      12.M3        7.935      13.914      12.802      11.32
DOWN S01         19.271      20.004      20.646      22.160      18.421      17.423      12.3        17.923      16.6        15.527
LAG I YER                         -           -           -                       -                  12.983      11.31      10.83=
LAS 2 YEARS           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -      12.98       11.831
AG 3 YEARS                                                                                               -           -      12.
SWITCHING VALUES Al I12
~SSS      3uA5S    ::S5 t:
APPWSK      SWITCHING       PERAcEJI
StREM@                       VUE            WINJl
M.TOT                 841,463.18    69504.40               -17.35
r TOT                 695v 04.40    34I1663.18              2 1.002
Net Presefit          if Ct:C  ll%   .144458.9
'r     e sn.l r .t  ~f        ReLum 11-9
<,uPnrt_t E           c *wR+    f .Relumn=1.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CEARA
Documents Available in Project File
1.   Selected Bank Reports and Studies on Northeast Brazil:
- World Bank Report 3938-BR 'Rural Development Programs for Brazil's
Northeast: an Interim Assessment," February 7, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5350-BR "Northeast Rural Development I Project
(Sergipe)," March 12, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5349-BR "Northeast Rural Development II Project (Rio
Grande do Norte), "April 8, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5360-BR "Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project," May 31, 1985.
- World Bank Report (Green Cover - 5709-BR "Northeast Rural Development III
ProJect (Bahia)," July 16, 1985.
- World Bank Report (Yellow Cover - 6117-BR "Northeast Rural Development IV
Project (Plaui)," March 21, 1986.
- World Bank Report (Yellow Cover - 6118-BR "Northeast Rural Development V
Project (Pernambuco)," March 21, 1986.
2.   SUDENE:  Analysis Report on Feasibility Studies for Public Irrigation
Schemes,
3.   State Government of Ceara (November 1985):
Volume I - Program Summary
Volume II - General Reference
Part 1 - The State of Ceara
Part 2 - The Small Farmer
Part 3 - Project Priority Areas
Volume III - The Project
Part 1 - General Concept
Part 2 - Land Tenancy
Part 3 - Water Resource Development
- Water Supviy
- Public Irrigation
- Private Irrigation
- Fish Hatcheries
Part 4 - Agricultural Research
Part 5 - Rural Extension
Part 6 - Marketing



- 53 -
Part 7 - Rural Credit
Part 8 - Support to Small Rural Communities
Part 9 - ta.m Models
Annexes Volume III:
Part 2 - Annex I Land Diagnosis
- Annex 2 Institutional Diagnosis
Part 3 - Annex I Diagnosis
- Annex 2 Water Supply
- Annex 3 Fish Hatcheries
- Annex 4 Water Tariff-Cost Recovery
- Annex 5 SAAB-CE Irrigation Structure
- Annex 6 Pre-Feasibility and Feasibility Studies for Public
Irrigation Schemes
Part 6 - Marketing Feasibility Studies, Diagnosis
Part 9 - Annex 1 Farm Model Analysis
- Annex 2 Input Costs
Annexes Volume IV: Annex - Project Administration
4.   IBRD, SUDENE and State Government of Ceara:  'Minutes of
Understanding," December 1985.
5.   IBRD Supplementary Staff Working Papers
a) Water Supply
b) Public Irrigation
c) Agricultural Research
d) Rural Extension
e) Marketing
f) COSTAB Documents
g) FARMOD Documents
h) Economic Analysis



0 xa                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZL                    -5    R-  
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM    l)
JIr                 ~~~~NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE         :        _D'S\ A
5                        ~~~~~~~~IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                           BRAZ21L- ,
PAA        f        °J                  YEARLY LAND ADJUDICATION OPERtATIONS            :nSW,,  7   ,
, ~       J    .  SA3>                                                                          _,6j 
/K_S;           ¢WOMV    DICSO   X,               5          CEARA          1e6A-.]              ' 
,/           ~MARANHA&0r UA                _ZR\   CaX                      Ou=        O/     
'  A  oG             !                 S                 w  .            R10 ~~~~~~il6GRANDE   r;
i                                         l   °'             ° ,/~~~~~ * 1 ,s~0  D O NO RT E
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'F- --du  io '
C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or y   t.:, ,
! J ) i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-;. A 4e 
<S  |   u         °J¢e° S;               ,           \      N\ F ^    ~~~~ALAGOAS
;  ,J i                                    °~~~~~~~~~~~0-- op-/                  /                          0,o;
O~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .; d. W..ET
I   t:   !       t               5o5                                0       ' Vd   ~~~~~~~~ ~~~ALAGOAS   
S'    Xs  L"     . X                  *¢wswdo~~~>ge',:,'St,  !  ERGIPE
/il  de-O           a                          l r ; t    @Ats~~~~~~~ocafu
G O i A S   t  5 dovhW                               O VD               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Projed Baouory
; 2                                     Olq6>~~~~~~~~~~~ Lande adjudicalion:  
\          o e   o>do                                 11    ~~~~~     ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~Yeor O  
%   g  ~~~~~~ '?                                     ,   ,, E F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yeor I
> ) > <> > of W ~~~~~~d. C-. b- o~                                     Yo "r:r 2,
F . D .                                                                                     a Jw          Nucl iCenterd
f.^re,ffr Sw* \E  O                            ,.S                    : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'- ~~State 3oundcwries  
]W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ttrairo Bounclaer VWejs
21 w   > 7Z                          MI N AS         G E RA iS          f                             -  neroonZBondre
rer 4rr # ._ coonn  ;)                                    oAbiD                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200    ,300 KILoZmETERS
ra   K   /                                   f: ESIVIRITO  '           O     ~     ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 1llO  200 MILES
sn                                                                        g   .                                     4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AII



41'                            W          B R A Z I L                                      y9.A    i
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT VI PROJECT (CEARA)
38'4T
0%S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8RAZILNRAt
'. ...... 1.".4 '.~~~~~~~~~~s.5i'':N> '<' u t
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H    .   
.  , ,  ,' S {, ,t',, ~~~~~ ,, 1 .' H ,,4.~~~, ,, ,., ru A J  IR I C 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
§   48-                4°'                   So i. _  .                             18                       ,. 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOTAEZ



NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT VI PROJECT (CEARA)                            ' Io,
AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL DEFINED BY DEPENDABLE RAINFALL     r                  I
.1C,  '       oI .                                                   B.A   B R A Z I L
A-, .,
-3                       L                                                                      u   
M.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
i ~~tt Fk ! vwrrild- AXW roraRAde                                   T ofosorsiro
- ! XX n _XPOZO / ffl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wet-Or?               oor-  gop Mop off 0,5
7- .+( _-4 8 r i i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~> Easshn; R"eb SQ1CI,4Opoolo, otfso4itCsr
.4
To Soooo,tA o,-d
K,;osE:rrs P E ~~~~~~R                     N                             uMB UCOr-_     tb8oce
0      25   t                         420  1o  S:/zv20           5                         t



