Page  1
June 18, 1990
Exma. Sra. 
Dra. Zdlia Cardoso de Mello
Ministra da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento 
Esplanada dos Ministerios 
Bloco P, 5o andar 
70.048 - Brasilia, D.F. 
Brazil
Dear Madam Minister:
Re.:
BRAZIL - Northeast Rural Development Project Ceara
(Loan 2763-BR)
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated June 13, 1985 (the Loan Agreement), 
between the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).
Following discussions held in Brazil in December 1989 between the Bank staff and 
Federal and State officials in relation to SUDENE's and the State's request to finance 
from the Loan 10O% of costs of foreign technical assistance under the Water Resources 
component, the Bank is pleased
to inform you of its agreement to amend the Loan Agreement as follows: The 
disbursement percentage for Categories (1) and (2) of Paragraph 1, Schedule 1 of the 
Loan Agreement will be changed to read:
"10O% of foreign and local expenditures for the provision of services of 
consultants 
domiciled outside the territory of the Borrower and 70% of all 
other local 
expenditures."
The following paragraph is added to Schedule 1 as Paragraph 2, and existing 
Paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 are renumbered as Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, respectively:
"2. for the purposes of this Schedule: 
a)
the term foreign expenditures' means expenditures in the currency 
of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from 
the'territory of any country other than that 
of the Borrower; and 
b)
the term 'local expenditures' means expenditures in the currency 
of the 
Borrower or for goods and services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower." 
If you are in agreement with the foregoing proposal, please indicate by signing 
and dating the form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter and returning 
it to us.
On receipt by the Bank of the form of confirmation signed and dated by you, the 
amendment shall take effect retroactively to January 1st, 1990.
Because of their interest in this matter, a copy of this letter is being sent to 
the Central Bank, DEAIN, the Secretariat of Regional Development and SUDENE.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane M. Choksi
Director
Country Department I (Brazil)
Page  2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Confirmed:
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Helio Gil Gracindo 
Procurador-Geral Adjunto da Fazenda Nacional
Date:
