,cument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  10760
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FIRST AND SECOND FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
(LOANS 1985-TU AND 2131-TU)
JUNE 19, 1992
MrCrtOFICHE COpY
Report No. 1.07630-TU  Type: (PCF)
MASON-ANDE/ X31676 / T911l/ CEDD)l
Industry and Energy Division
Technical Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Annual Rate (TL/USS 1.0)
1980           76
1981          110
1982          161
1983          224
1984          367
1985          522
1986          675
1987          857
1988        1,422
1989        2,122
1990        2,609
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARGUBRE               Akdeniz Gubre Sanayii A.S.
AS                    Ammonium Sulfate
CAN                   Calcium Ammonium Nitrate
DAP                   Diammcnium Phosphate
DONATIM, TZDK         Turkiye Zirai Donatim Kurumu
EGE                   Ege Gubre Sanayii A.S.
GUBRE                 Gubre Fabrikalari T.A.S.
GOT                   Government of Turkey
IGSAS                 Istanbul Gubre Sanayii A.S.
KBI                   Karadeniz Bakir Isletmeleri A.S.
N                     Nitrogen Content in Fertilizer
NPK                   Nitrogen-Phospahte Potash Complex Fertilizer
P(P205)               Phosphorous Nutrient Content in Fertilizer
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
SPC                   State Planning Organization
TAN                   Technical Ammonium Nitrate
TSP                   Triple Superphosphate
TUGSAS                Turkiye Gubre Sanayii A.S.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIL4 USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
of Directw-General
Wtirns Evaluation
June 19, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DTRECTO013 AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on Turkey
First and Second Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving
Prolects (Loans 1985-TU and 2131-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Turkey - First and Second Fertilizer Rationalization and
Energy Saving Projects (Loans 1985-TU and 2131-TU" prepared by the Industry and
Energy Division, Technical Department of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this t4me.
Attachment                                              2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FIRST AND SECOND FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECTS
(LOANS 1985-TU AND 2131-TU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
PREFACE . . .....          . . .....            ...... ....  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . .
1.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
2.  Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
3.  Project Objectives and Lescription . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
4.  Project Design and Organizat4on  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
5.  Project Implementatior. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
7.  Compliance with Covenants  ....  .  .      .  .  .  .    ..... .    .    15
8.  Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
9.  Bank Performance ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    *.6
10.  Borrower's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .        17
11.  Consulting Services  ..........  .    -.                           17
12.  Lessons  .                      . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .    18
PART IT  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .    19
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . ............... .   29
1. Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
3. Loan Disbursements .      .     .  .     . . . . .   . . . . . .   30
Table  1.  Loan Disbursement Schedule (Loan 1985-TU) . . .   30
Table  2.  Loan Disbursement (L.oan 2131-TU)  . . . . . . .    31
4,  Implementation Schedule .. ...                   .                  32
Table  3.  Project Completion Schedule . . . . . . . . .         32
5. List of Subprojects Financed Under Loans 1985-TU
and 2131-TU  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         33
Table  4.  List of Loan Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . .   33
6.  Project Cost  . . . . .                      .                      34
Table 5. Project Costs . . . . .34
7.  Project Financing .                     . . . . . . . . . .  . .    35
Table  6.  Project Financing (Loan 1985-TU)  . . . . . . .    35
Table  7.  Allocation of Bank (Loan 1985-TU) . . . . . . .    35
Table  8.  Project Financing (Loan 2131-TU)  . . . . . . .    36
Table  9.  Allocation of Bank Loan (Loan 2131-TU)  . . . .    36
8.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . .                                 37
Table 10.  Capacity Utilization of Plants Before
and After Rehabilitation  . . . . . . . . . .   37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
lable 11.  Economic Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
Table 12.  Financial Impact  . ..... .  . . . . . . .   38
Table 13.  Studies . . . . . .. . . .....  . . . .  .   39
9.  Fertilizer Production and Consumption (1986-91) . . . . . . .   40
Table 14.  Fertilize- Production and Consumption
(1986-91)    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  40
10. Import Duties on Fertilizer . . . . . . . . . .    . .   . . .   41
Table 15.  Import Duties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   41
11.  Fertilizer Prices and Subsidy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
Table 16.  Fertilizer Prices and Subsidy . .  .  .  . . . . .   42
12.  Company Financial Statements  . . . . . . . .... . . .. .   43
Table 17.  IGSAS:  Income Statement (1986-90)  . . . . . .   44
Table 18.  IGSAS:  Balance Sheet (1986-90) . . . . . . . .   45
Table 19.  TUGSAS:  Income Statement (1986-90) . . . . . .   46
Table 20.  TUGSAS:  Balance Sheet (1986-90)  . . . . . . .   47
Table 21.  GUBRE FABRIKALARI:  Income Statement  . . . . .   48
Table 22.  GUBRE FABRIKALARI:  Balance Sheet (1986-90) . .   49
Table 23.  AKENDIZ GUBRE:  Income Statement (1989-91)  . .   50
Table 24.  AKENDIZ GUBRE:  Balance Sheet (1989-91) . . . .   51
Table 25.  EGE GUBRE A.S.:  Income Statement (1986-91) . .   52
Table 26.  EGE GUBRE:  Balance Sheet (1986-91) . . . . . .   53
Table 27.  KBI:  Financial Highlights (1986-90)  . . . . .   54
Table 28.  KBI:  Balance Sheet (1986-90) .  . . . . . . .   55
13.  Use of Bank Resources .   . . .  . ..  . . .........    56
A.  Staff Input  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   56
B.    Missions   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  57



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FIRST AND SECOND FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECTS
(LOANS 1985 AND 2131-TU)
PREFACE
This is the combined Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
First and Second Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving Projects, for
which Loan 1985-TU (US$110 million) and Loan 2131-TU (US$ 44.1 million)
were approved on May 7, 1981 and April 27, 1982, respectively. The first
loan was closed on December 31, 1989, and the second loan, on December 31,
1987. From the first loan, an undisbursed amount of US$ 11.81 million was
cancelled and, from the second loan, an undisbursed amount of US$ .7.14
million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the EMENA Technical Department (on
behalf of the Industry, Trade and Finance Operations Division of the EMENA
Country Department I) and the main comments of some loan beneficiaries in
their project completion reports are summarized in Part II.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision missions of the projects in 1990 and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Reports, the Loan Agreements, the Project Agreements,
supervision reports, and financial reports of the companies.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FIRST AND SECO!1 FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECTS
(LOANS 1985 AND 2131-TU)
EVALUATION SUNMARY
Obiectives
The objectives of the Projects were to: (i) rehabilitate and
modernize six major fertilizer plants and one copper smelter (which
produces sulfuric acid as a byproduct for fertilizer production) with
particular attention to eu:.gy saving and pollution control, and help raise
capacity utilization in the fertilizer sector from low levels; (ii) expand
training programs; and (ii) carry out three studies (i.e. the Financial
Management Improvement Study for TUGSAS, the Fertilizer Marketing and
Pricing btudy, and the Fertilizer Raw Material Resource Study) to
facilitate institutional and policy reforms as well as future planning of
the fertilizer industry. The objectives of the Projects have been largely
met.
Im2lementation Experience
The implementation of both the Projects took significantly more
time than envisaged at the time of appraisal partly be;cause of project
scope changes following detailed inspection by engineerirng firms as well as
by the changing pattern of demand for particular type of fertilizers.
However, the main reason for the implementation delays was the change in
the approach to the rehabilitation work. At the time of the appraisal, it
was envisaged that the plants would be closed for the duration of the
implementation, and the rehabilitation work would be carried in one step.
However, the companies decided subsequently at the suggestion of the
Government to carry out the rehabilitation work with minimum dislocation to
annual production as the country was experiencing foreign exchange
shortages to allow adequate import of fertilizers. Therefore, the actual
rehabilitation work was carried out mostly during the emergency plant
shutdowns and annual plant turn-arounds. In spite of project delays, there
was no cost increase in the first Project. However, in the second Project,
there was significant cost increase mainly because the detailed inspection
by engineering firms showed that the copper smelter/sulfuric complex of KBI
at Samsun required substantially more investment than estimated during
appraisal based on a consultant study. Even though the internal cash
generation of companies fell short of the appraisal estimate to finance the
Projects, the companies were able to make up the deficit through additional
capital increases and/or domestic borrowing.



- iv -
Results
The design of the Projects were well-suited to rhe needs of
Turkey's fertilizer industry, considering that a large part of the
production facilities were old and inefficient, and the capacity
utilization in the fertilizer r3ctor was as Low as 40X in 1979, when the
Bank started evaluation of the Projects.  The Bank-financed Projects have
helped increase the average capacity utilization in the fertilizer sector
to 75X in spite of the cutback of production in some plants because of
imports at artificially low prices due to fertilizer oversupply in the
world. As this oversupply situation is not expected to last long, the
domestic plants are expected to increase capacity utilization in the near
future when the world prices rise toward their long-term equilibrium
levels.
Technical problems of the plants have been overcome and the
plant management is now giving mo-e attention to both preven.:ive and normal
maintenance. Companies have introduced computerized accounting and
financial management systems but some have problems in retaining trained
people because of low salary scales. Local training of operating and
maintenance personnel were carried out as expected but the overseas
training of middle level management staff was curtailed because of the
Government's reluctance to use Bank funds for overseas training. Technical
advisors were not used effectively by all the beneficiary companies. Some
of them (i.e. AKDENIZ, GUBRE and KBI) used technical advisors only during
the initial part of the project implementation. The three studies
undertaken as part of the Projects had a major impact on pol.cy reforms and
sector development. The Fertilizer Marketing and Pricing Study helped in
the process of fertilizer marketing and pricing reforms carried ou't in mid-
1986. The Fertilizer Raw Material Resource Study helped in the planning of
the fertilizer sector development. The Management Improvement Study for
TUGSAS was carried out as Phase I of the overall Management Improvement
Program. The recommendations of the Study were impleme.sted as part of
Phase II of the Program. The objectives of this program were not fully
realized because of lack of adequate capable middle level managers.
Further, the consultant services ended before they had trained adequate
TUGSAS personnel for the computerized accounting and financial management
systems.
SustainabiU&It
In spite of project delays, all plants rehabilitated under the
two Projects are economically viable. The rehabilitation work has made the
six companies more attractive to privatization. One company, AKDENIZ, has
already been privatized and Its performance has improved remarkably since
privatization in January 1990. Another company, GUBRE, is going through
the procedures for privatization. Its operation became profitable in 1990
after losses during the previous three years partly due to competition from
fertilizer imports at depressed world prices. The public sector bank,
Ziraat Bankasi, is trying to sell its 49Z stake in the company. EGE, a
private sector company, experienced losses during the last two years
because of import competition at depressed prices and also due to labor
strikes. However, the company is expected to show regain profitability
this year. IGSAS, a public sector company, is operating above capacity and



v 
has attained int-rnational competitiveness. Its financial profitability
has improved significantly since 1986, making it attractive for
privatization. The financial situation of the other two loan
beneficiaries, TUGSAS and KBI--two fully-owned state enterprises --is
deteriorating, with losses increasing partly due to ineffective management
and lack of adequate trained personnel, and partly due to delays in
receiving compensation payments and authorized share capital increases in a
timely manner. Those companies should be given priority in the proposed
Government program for privatization of state economic enterprises. The
operation of these companies are potentially viable following
rehabilitation and this potential is expected to be realized with effective
management after privatization.
Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned in the Projects, as discussed at the end
of Part I, are: (i) the rehabilitation of old plants of different vintage
is a complex task and this complexity has to br- taken into account more
fully in determining the project implementation schedule; (ii) project
scope changes are to be expected in rehabilitation projects following
detailed inspection by engineering firms and the bank should be receptive
to these changes when appropriate and react quickly to requests for
realloeqtion and/or cancellations; (iii) possible changes in demand for
specific products would necessitate changesi in project scope; (iv) full-
time project teams are necessary for project success; (v) details of the
training program should be worked out more clearly at the project
preparation stage; (vi) more attention to be given to improving accounting
and financial management systems of companies; and (vii) the Bank should
exercise the remedies under the loan agreement in case the agreed covenants
are not complied with.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FIRST AND SECOND FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECTS
(LCANS 1985 I.ND 2131-TU)
PART 1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name        :    First & Second Fertilizer Rationalization and
Energy Saving Projects
Loan Numbers:     1985 & 2131-TU
RVP Unit          EMENA Region
Country           Turkey
Sector      :     Industry (Fertilizer)
2. BACKGROUND
2.1      The Bank's involvement in Turkey's fertilizer industry began with a
loan for the IGSAS ammonia/urea fer,Lilizer project in 1972, when the
country's consumption of nutrients amounted to 375,000 tons of nitrogen (N),
246,000 tons of phosphate (P) and 27,000 tons of potash (K).  The domestic
production of fertilizers, however, was not sufficient to meet the demand and
large quantities were imported -- 345,000 tons of N, 136,000 tons of P and
all of the potash (which Turkey does not produce). From 1972 until the end
of the decade, the average annual growth rates in the consumption of
nutrients were 11% for N, 15Z for P and 5% for K.  Turkey's fertilizer
consumption reached 779,000 tons of N, 660,000 tons of P and 38,000 tons of
K in 1979 when the Bank started evaluating the First Fertilizer
Rationalization and Energy Saving Project for financing. Between 1972-79, a
considerable quantity of fertilizer production capacity had been added,
amounting to 610,500 tpy N and 278,800 tpy P. In 1979, the total nutrient
production capacity in Turkey stood at 728,400 tpy N and 578,300 tpy P.
However, it was still necessary to import a large part of the nutrient
requirements amounting to 437,000 tons e-? N and 298,000 tons of P in 1979.
Fertilizer imports cost Turkey US$3177 million in 1979 and about US$500
million in 1980. In addition, Turkey had to rely on imported fertilizer raw
materials and intermediates such as phosphate rock, phosphoric acid and
sulfuric acid. Also, the domestic production of ammonia was largely derived
from petroleum products (e.g., naphtha) derived from imported ^rude oil.
2.2      Fertilizer production failed to keep pace with Turkey's needs
predominantly due to the industry's inability to maintain an adequate
production efficiency from the installed fertilizer plants.   The average
capacity utilization in the fertilizer industry was only 46% for N and 37Z
for P in 1979.    Low capacity utilization was mainly due to: (i) technical



-2-
bottlenecks arising from design deficiencies and poor maintenance; (ii)
inadequate imports of raw materials, intermediates and spare parts; (iii)
deficierncie3 in the supply of local raw materials end utilities, e.g.
poor/uneven quality and unreliable supply of lignite, pyrites and rock
phosphate, and shortages of pcwer and water; (iv) working cap4tal problems;
(v) organization and management deficiencies, and (vi) lack of trained
manpower.
2.3      The Government  and a Bank preappraisal mission in March  1980
identified  seven fertilizer and intermediate product plsnt. as a high
priority for Bank financial/technical aesistance to eliminate technni"al
bottlenecks, improve capacity utilization, and achieve energy savings and
pollution control. Project Preparation Facility (PPF) funds of 'JS$600,000
were made av.ilable for foreign engineering consultants to complete
;;reparation for the rehabilitation of the plants. It was agreed to implement
the Project in two phases since the task was complex and the required foreign
exchange funds exceeded the amount that the Bank was prepsred to make
available at the time. At the time of appTaisal in December 1980, for the
first Project, there were six companies in Turkey exclusively producing
fertilizers from 15 product plants.   In the public sector, two companies
operated seven plants -- TUGSAS (6) and IGSAS (1). In the joint sector, five
plants were operated by GUBRE (3) and AKGUBRE (2), and in the private secLor
two companies operated three plants -- EGE (1) and BAGFAS (2). Except for
GUBRE's NPK unit and the private sector plants of EGE and BAGFAS, which came
on-stream in 1978 and 1980 respectively, the other plants had been
commissioned over the period from 1961 to 1974.  In addition, three plants
were producing ammonium sulphate fertilizer as a by-product from the public
sector operations of one petrochemical and two steel complexes.
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1      Prolect Obiectives.  The two Projects, financed under two separate
loans (1985-TU and 2131-TU), aim at increasing production, productivity and
energy efficiency in selected fertilizer facilities in Turkey through energy
saving,  rehabilitation  and  rationalization  investments  supported  by
appropriate technical assistance, institutional improvements and training.
The main benefit to be gained from the Projects was an increase in annual
fertilizer production of about '25 million tons.  The Projects were also to
help substantially increase '.e output of intermediate products for
fertilizer production and annually release large quantities of naphtha and
fuel oil for outside use as a result of substitution with refinery platformer
and off-gases as feedstock and fuel for ammonia production.  In addition,
reductions in the specific material consumption per ton of nroduct was to
yield significant savings in the consumption of sulfuric acid, phosphate
rock, ammonia, energy, etc. and help reduce unit production costs.
3.2      Prolect DescriDtion.  The first Project (Ln 1985-TU) covers three
companies -- TUGSAS, IGSAS and GUBRE -- and four plants: the Kutahya II and



-3-
Samsun complexes of TUGSAS, the Izmit plant of IGSAS and the Yarimca plant of
GUBRE. The second Project (Ln 2131-TU) involvqs three companies 1/ --
AKOUBRE, EGE and KBI -- and three plants: the Mersin complex of AKGUBRE, the
EGE facilities at Foca and the Samsun plant of KBI (which produces sulfuric
acid au a byproduct of its blister copper operation, for the fertilizer
industry).
3.3      The design of the Projects consists of five main components:
A.    Rehabilitation and Ene:!a  Saving Comgoneat: To rehabilitate existing
plants and remove capacity-limiting bottlenecks in machinery and equipment
and to improve the plant economics through energy and feedstock-saving
measures, as well as process revamping and, in some cases, expansion of
plar.t capacity.   The  first Project configuration included:  (i)  the
rehabilitation of TUGSAS's 340,000 tons per year (tpy) lignite-based
Kutahya II calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN) fer.ilizer plant; (ii)
modernization and rehabilitation of TUGSAS's 220,000 tpy triple super-
pbosphate (TSP) and 230,000 tpy di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilizer
complex at Samsun; (iii) modifications and conversion to use lower cost
refinery gases to replace naphtha feedstock and fuel oil for the IGSAS
511,500 tpy urea fertilizer plant; (iv) rehabilitation and modernization
of GUBRE's Yarimca 200,000 tpy T3P and 200,000 tpy complex fertilizer
(NPK) plants, and the construction of a new 250,000 sulfuric acid plant at
thLs facility to balance production.  The second Project configuration
included: (i) basic and detniled engineering for investments in
rationalization and modernization of the Iskenderun plant and off-site
facilities of GUBRE, conversion from 200,000 tpy TSP production to DAP and
rehabilitation of the sulfuric and phosphoric acid plants; (ii)
rationalization and energy saving modifications of AKGUBRE's 594,000 tpy
CAN and 148,000 tpy DAP plants at Mersin and addition of a new 600 ton per
day (tpd) ammonium sulphate (AS) fertilizer unit based on scrubbing waste
sulfur dioxide (S02) gases with ammonia; (iii) rationalization of EGE's
306,000 tpy complex fertilizer (NP) plant at Foca to enable production of
additional fertilizer grades; and (iv) modernization and rationalization
of KBI's blister copper complex at Samsun and the pyrites-based 350,000
tpy sulfuric acid plant for supply of the acid as feedstock to the
adjacent TUGSAS phosphoric acid plant. Each of the above sub-components
included in' -cment3 on 'ollution control measures.
B.    Training Component: To provide financing to supplemer.t the training
activity and facilities under development for TUGSAS an(d IGSAS and to
extend them to other fertilizer companies, which had no such facilities,
for the purpose of: (i) implementing training programs; (ii) tr'ining of
trainers; (iii) supplying training aids and equipment; and (iv) creating
l/ After the cancellation of the Iskenderun subproject of GUBRE goon
after loan approval. GUBRE cancelled the subproject as the demand
for TSP and DAP began to declire in Turkey.



-4-
training  centers.    In  addition,  training  in  critical  areas  (i.e.,
preventive and operaticnal maintenance) would involve the use of foreign
experts and the foreign training of selected personnel from the companies
who woi.ld be sent abroad for specialization.
C.    Management   Improvement   Component:   1/         To   address   the
organizational and managerial problems of TUGSAR. covering its six plants
loceted in different parts of the country, and fo.lasing on operational
and financial management strategies with respect to: (i) admisetment of the
organization for increased operational efficiency; (ii) delegation of
authority to plant level management; (iii) improvement in maintenance,
inventory control, and energy management; (iv) compensation policy
improvements to minimize turnover of professional,; and (v) introduction
of mode n accounting financial management techniques.
D.    Fertilizer  Marketing  and  Pricint  Study  Component:  2/    For
rationalizing the fertilizer transportation, storage and distribution
sys.ems and the fertilizer pricing mechanism.
E.    Fertilizer Raw Material Resource Study Component:   3J For review
of fertilizer raw material resources in Turkey for development of the
industry based on local resources.
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1      The design of the Projects was technically well fitted to the needs
of Turkey's fertilizer industry, considering that a large part of its
production capacity was aging, inefficient and unable to respond to the
country's demand for fertilizers at the time of project identification. The
need for the rehabilitation and energy saving measures was clear to the
individual companies, which initially identified the problems in their
plants, and also to the authorities.
4.2      Nevertheless, due to changes that subsequently took place in the
relative prices of imported inputs, such as rock phosphate, sulfur,
phosphoric acid, etc., and the changes in the demand pattern (i.e., the
declining demand for TsP and the rising demand for NPK), the scope of the
GUBRE sub-component under the first loan was revised. Rehabilitation of the
TSP complex, including a revamp of the phosphoric acid plaut and construction
of a new sulfuric acid plant was cancelled.   Instead, it was decided to
1/ Included under Loan 1985-TU.
2/ Included under Loan 2131-TU.
3/ Included under Loan 2131-TU



- 5 -
expand NPK production capacity at Yarimca by establishing a new NPK plant
(NPK II) to meet the increasing domestic demand for the product. Further,
when gas became available in Turkey from the Soviet Union with the
construction of the gas pipeline, the scope of the IGSAS subproject was
modified to use natural gas, the most efficient feedstock for nitrogenous
fertilizer production.
4.3      Under the second loan, GUBRE decided with the agreement of the Bank
not to pursue the basic design and engineering for rehabilitation and
conversion of the old Iskenderun TSP complex to DAP; production of DAP at
Iskenderun was deemed unattractive as the demand for it was showing less than
expected increase in Turkey. The Company, therefore, decided to phaseout the
operation at Iskenderun. Furthermore, AKGUBRE decided not to construct a new
600 tpd AS fertilizer unit at Mersin as proposed originally, due to the lack
of growth in local demand for that product. EGE also modified the scope of
its subproject for additional investment on its raw material and product
handling facilities.
4.4      As it later became evident, the importance of a strong institutional
capability for project management was underrated by the companies in view of
the projects' extensive technical scope and the companies' need for
organizing effective project teams at the companies' head offices and plants.
As a result, some companies such as TUGSAS, AKDENIZ and KBI, were not able to
make the most efficient use of technical advisors/consulting firms.
4.5      Each company formed a project team responsible for implementing the
sub-projects by using their senior engineers experienced in the plant
technologies involved.   In the case of TUGSAS and GUBRE, the services of
technical advisors for project management and the provision of technical
assistance and training for its team was recognized to be essential, as they
had limited in-house expertise in executing new process plant projects and in
improving plant operations. The other companies' project teams were judged
to be adequate to supervise and expedite the implementation work to be
carried out with the assistance of the foreign engineering firms. Upon loan
effectiveness, Scientific Design (UK) was selected as technical advisor (TA)
to TUGSAS and GUBRE following Bank guidelines for consultants. While TUGSAS
continued with TA until project completion, GUBRE used TA only during the
initial part of project implementation. Some other companies utilized the
services of project management advisors during part of the project
implementation period -- Haldor Topsoe for EGE, Cremer & Warner (UK) for
ARGUBRE, and Boliden Contech (Sweden) for KBI.   In general, the project
management capability of the companies was inadequate.   More extensive
technical supervision by consultants would have contributed to reducing the
long implementation period.
4.6      The Project was basically well prepared in terms of the project
design with regard to overcoming the deficiencies prevailing in the sector.
However, in view of the deterioration in the physical condition of many
production units and their age, it was necessary at the time to execute the
two Projects covering a wide scope, which increased the burden on the



organizations cincerned and partly caused considerable delays in project
implementation.
5. PROJECT IMPLEME.ATATION
5.1      Loan Effectiveness and Prolect Commencement.  Ln 1985-TUR for the
first phase of the Project was approved on May 7, signed on May 15 and became
effective on August 28 of 1981.   Ln 2131-TUR for the second phase was
approved on April 27 and signed on May 13 of 1982, but did not become
effective until April 13, 1983. The 11-month delay in effectiveness was due
to the drawn-out procedures in Turkey for finalizing the onlending
arrangements through the financial intermediaries and negotiations between
them and the beneficiary companies.
5.2      Procurement.   Process licensing agreements, existing between the
fertilizer companies and the design and engineering firms which built the
original plants, dictated that the process units be rehabilitated/revamped by
using the same firms. Therefore, the companies began contract negotiations
with the original lead engineering firms, mostly requiring their detailed and
time-consuming inspection of the condition of the plants. The negotiations,
however, became extremely prolonged on account of: (i) refusal by Davy
International (FRG) to provide guarantees on performance of the TUGSAS
phosphoric acid, TSP and DAP plants at Samsun after rehabilitation.   The
problem with Davy was overcome by engaging SIAP2 (Tunisia), which also uses
the Davy process, strengthened with some Davy engineers; (ii) the inability
of TUGSAS to obtain satisfactory contract terms with Krupp-Koppers (KK) and
acceptable performance guarantees for the Kutahya II facilities after the
rehabilitation work. The work was thus divided into five main contracts,
each awarded to the firm responsible for the original unit of the complex --
Babcock (US) for coal preparation/boilers, KK (FRG) for coal gasification,
GHH (FRG) for gas compression, Linde (FRG) for air separation, and Ammonia
Casale (Italy) for ammonia synthesis; and (iii) the reluctance by Uhde (FRG)
to give IGSAS adequate performance guarantees for its ammonia/urea plant
modifications.
5.3      Following the Yarimca project scope changes, GUBRE was able under
international competitive bidding (ICB) to engage Krebs (France)/ENTES
(Turkey) as the engineering contractor. AKGUBRE completed an engineering
services contract with Kellogg (Holland), the original engineering contractor
for the Mersin complex, but experienced long delays in negotiating the
contract, including the demand by Kellogg for detailed inspection of the
facility's condition. However, the engineering firm, INTECSA (Spain), was
contracted for the modifications to ECE's complex fertilizer plant at Foca,
close to schedule.   Engineering services for the KBI sub-component were
procured late under ICB, following the contractors' detailed inspection of
the smelter plant (by Furukawa Ltd., Japan) and the sulfuric acid unit (by
Sirychamon Impianti, Italy) at Samsun. Procurement, in general, was executed
satisfactorily and in accordance with the Bank guidelines. The engineering
contractors carried out the bulk of procurement for the machinery, equipment



- 7 -
and materials but the companies also took part in the overall supervision of
the procurement work with assistance from their technical advisors.
5.4      Implementation and Schedule.  The above delays in the commencement
of work by the main contractors compared to the assumptions of the Staff
Appraisal Reports (SARs) were the following: (i) the effective dates of the
five contracts for the Kutahaya II plant lagged behind the SAR estimate by 22
months for the KR contract and up to 28 months for the Linde contract; (ii)
similarly, at Samsun, the beginning of the Lurgi contract for the sulfuric
acid unit fell 16 months behiid the original schedule and the SIAPE contract
lagged by 20 months; (iii) the Uhde contract with IGSAS was delayed by
3 months; (iv) the scope changes by GUBRE after prolonged study of changing
market conditions and available options for the revised project configuration
caused a 34-month delay; (v) the start of the Kellogg contract for Mersin was
late by 17 months; (vi) INTECSA's contract with EGE at Foca was delayed by 2
months; and (vii) at Samsun, KBI's two contracts with Furukawa (for the
blister copper unit) and Sirychamon Impianti (for the sulfuric acid unit)
began late by 24 and 26 months, respectively.   In addition, the measures
required earlier for meeting the conditions to enable the Bank to declare
loan effectiveness took longer than expected, especially for the second loan.
5.5      The actual periods of execution, from contract effectiveness to
completion of rationalization of the facilities, became considerably extended
in most cases compared to the SAR schedules.   As a result, the relative
overruns for the individual sub-projects, in terms of months, were the
following: (i) the Kutahya II complex, on average for the five contracts --
9 months; (ii) the Lurgi contract of Samsun (TUGSAS) -- 19 months; and for
the SIAPE contract -- 51 months;   (iii) the Uhde contract for IGSAS as
originally conceived -- 21 months; (iv) the Krebs/ENTES contract for GUBRE's
revised sub-project scope for Yarimca -- 29 months; (v) the Kellogg contract
for Mersin -- 7 months; (vi) INTECSA's contract for Foca -- 2 months; and
(vii) the Furukawa contract for Samsun (KBI) -- 24 months, and for the
Sirychamon contract -- 22 months. It should be noted, however, that these
apparent delays often were partly due to scheduling of the rehabilitation
work during periods when plants were shut down, for annual maintenance and/or
emergency  repairs.    Production  of  fertilizers,  therefore,  continued
throughout project implementation at varying levels of output. This approach
was followed by companies to minimize the decline in production during
project implementation as the demand for fertilizers was growing fast and the
Government was experiencing serious foreign exchange difficulties to allow
adequate fertilizer imports. At the time of appraisal, it was assumed that
the plants would be closed continuously during rehabilitation and the work
would ba carried out over a shorter period.
5.6      To a certain extent, more efficient project management could have
helped reduce the time taken for execution of the project. Considering the
heavy workload for the TUGSAS components, the company deployed a team of
about 30 staff at its headquarters but at the project sites the number of
full-time team personnel was quite inadequate. For Yarimca, GUBRE had not
established a project team until at least 16 months after loan effectiveness



as they were studying options for the revised project scope. Late. on, the
project management capability was improved with the assistance of the project
management advisors.   However, these advisors'  services were terminated
before the project was completed.
5.7      In  summary,  the  slow  start  and  late  completion  of  the
rehabilitation/energy saving component of the Projects was mainly due to: (i)
the engineering firms insistence on detailed inspection of the plants before
preparing their bids (in addition to the available consultant reports
prepared for the companies); (ii) the need for the fertilizer companies to
approach the original engineering firms, which initially opposed giving
satisfactory performance guarantees and quoted high prices in the absen e of
competition, leading to protracted negotiations; (iii) GUBRE's revisions of
the project scope of the Yarimca complex, which called for re-bidding;
(iv) other companies' minor revisions to the scope of their sub-projects; and
(v) the companies' requirement for minimizing decline in production of
fertilizers  during  the  project  execution  period.    Thus  intermittent
installation and repair of machinery and equipment was carried out as far as
possible at the time of operational shutdowns for emergency repairs and/or
during annual turn-arounds.
5.8      The Management Improvement contract was awarded early in 1982 to
Price Waterhouse (US) in collaboration with MUHAS, a local consulting firm.
Their report recommendations were accepted and on this basis they continued
until April 1984 to assist the implementation of a management program
involving key reforms in TUGSAS and other state economic enterprises (SEEs),
including design of a computerized management information system (MIS) and
streamlining of the financial management and accounting systems. One problem
faced by TUGSAS in this context was in the training of adequate personnel and
the difficulty of retraining trained personnel at low salary scales.
5.9      The local consultants, TUMAS, cooperated with a Danish consulting
firm, DARUDEC, in carrying out the Fertilizer Marketing and Pricing Study
beginning early 1982, under the supervision of a governmental steering
committee and a follow-up unit of the State Planning Organization. Upon its
timely   completion  and  acceptance  by  the  authorities,   the   study
recommendations were implemented under the Bank Agriculture Sector Loan of
1984. The Fertilizer Raw Material Resource Study contract, awarded to SEMA
(France), was carried out satisfactorily, from early 1983 to March 1984, and
the findings were taken into account in the Government's planning for future
development of Turkey's fertilizer industry.
5.10     The objectives  of the Training  Component were not  adequately
achieved in view of: (i) the concentration on contractual difficulties
experienced during early stages of the Project; (ii) the companies' focus on
minimizing decline in fertilizer production; (iii) the Projects' extensive
scope and heavy workload of the staff; and (iv) difficulties in getting
permission by the Government to send personnel for training abroad.   The
activities were generally limited to on-site training by the contractors'
specialists and the use of video training programs on plant operation,



-9-
maintenance, instrumentation and control. In the case of GUBRE, they sent a
small team to the contractor's office and to fertilizer plants in France for
a relatively short period.
5.11     Proiect  Costs  and Financing.    Although prolonged  delays were
experienced in the implementation of both the first and second fertilizer
rationalization projects for reasons already noted, the plant rehabilitation
costs of the first project were lower than the appraisal estimate by US$22.2
million (9.4%), partly due to the changes by GUBRE in the scope of
rationalizat'.on for its Yarimca complex. However, the main reason was that
during 1983-85, when awards for the major engineering contracts and the bulk
of the machinery and equipment procurement took place, the world market for
the supply of capital goods to the chemical process industry was depressed
and very competitive prices were available; and the appreciation of the US
dollar over the same period also had a favorable impact. The saving in the
overall cost of the first project was achieved in spite of the fact that the
TUGSAS subproject at Samsun experienced an overrun of US$14.8 million due to
the cost of additional modification/rationalization agreed subsequent to the
loan approval, which was financed out of loan surpluses from other
subprojects.
5.12     The second Project, undertaken one year later than the first, also
benefited from the depressed market for equipment, competitive prices and
dollar appreciation during 1983-85. Further, the GUBRE subproject for the
rehabilitation of the Iskenderun plant was cancelled (for which there was a
loan allocation of 6.1 million) by the company management because of the
declining demand for TSP and less than anticipated growth rate in the demand
for DAP. In spite of the above factors, there was a cost increase of US$30.4
million equivalent  (39%) because of a large increase  (by TIS$32 million
equivalent) in the total cost of the KBI subproject at Samsun, partly due to
the extended execution period, but mostly because the detailed inspection of
the complex by the engineering contractors revealed that the extent of
rehabilitation required was much greater than originally estimated by KBI
with the help of foreign consultants. As for the overall total costs of the
two Projects, there was a net saving of US$7.2 million (2.3%) against the
appraisal estimates .
5.13     As shown in Table 5 of Part III, the actual total financing required
for the two projects was US$321.1 million of which US$192.1 million was in
foreign exchange. The Bank loans (net of cancellations) financed 65Z of the
total financing required. A problem was experienced in finding internal cash
generation to finance the Projects to the extent anticipated at the time of
appraisal, especially in the case of TUGSAS, GUBRE, AKDENIZ and KBI. The
shortfall in cash generation (due to low world fertilizer prices which
determine the domestic ex-factory prices in Turkey to a large extent since
mid-1986) and heavy interest rate burden (because of the high cost of
borrowing from local banks for working capital when the receivables of
compensation payment from the Government to cover farmer fertilizer subsidy
took more  than three months  for settlement).   The  shortfall  in cash
generation for project financing was made up partly by the infusion of new



- 10 -
capital by shareholders (the Government and/or private) and partly by
domestic borrowing. The first project was financed on a debt/equity ratio of
50/50 (against the appraisal estimate of 47/53) and the second Project was
financed on 60/40 debt/equity ratio (against the appraisal estimate of
52/48).
5.14     Disbursements. Estimated vs. actual disbursements are given in Table
1 of Part III. Disbursements of the Bank loans were delayed by: (i) the slow
initial implementation period caused by the drawn-out process of engaging the
main engineering contractors, following detailed plant investigations and
protracted negotiation of contracts; (ii) changes in scope of some
sutbprojects; and (iii) execution of the rehabilitation work mainly during
emergency repairs and the annual shut-down of plants (for maintenance) to
minimize disruption of production.   As a result, the Bank granted three
extensions for Ln 1985-TU, each of one year, extending up to December 31,
1989. The Closing Date for Ln 2131-TU remained unchanged at June 30, 1987.
5.15     Loan Allocations. The original and revised allocations and final
disbursements  by beneficiaries  are shown in Table 4 of Part III.   A
considerable degree of revision to the original allocations took place for
reasons Previously mentioned, mainly attributable to lower than expected
prices for machinery and equipment and also the changes in scope of some
subprojects.  Taking into account the changes in the project scope and the
cost savings in foreign exchange, there have been cancellations from both the
loans as shown below.  Taking into account the cost savings and based on
requests received by the beneficiaries through the Government (the Borrower),
part of the loans were cancelled from time to time as shown below:



- 11 
Loan 1985-TU   Loan 2131-TU
I.      Original Loans                        US$110          US$44.1
II. (a)  Cancellations (Ln 1985-TU):
- April 23, 1986                      6.000
- January 1, 1989                     3.000
- August 7, 1989                      0.066
- December 20, 1989                   0.379
- March 14, 1990                      2.381
-           Sub-Total                11.8?6
II. (b)  Cancellations (Ln 2131-TU):
- April 10, 1983                                       6.100
- July 24, 1986                                        8.200
- December 7, 1987                                     2.842
-           Sub-Total                                 17.142
III.  Net Disbursement                         98.18           26.958
6. PROJECT RESULTS
6.1      Proiect Obiectives.   The Projects have generally met technical
objective to improve the operational performances of fertilizer plants in
Turkey selected by their need for rehabilitation/modernization.   This has
necessarily been achieved, however, with significant changes in the scope of
certain subprojects in order to adjust to the changing fertilizer consumption
patterns in the country and to take advantage of and/or react to changes
which took place in the raw materials and intermediate feedstock situations,
in terms of pricing and availability, during the implementation period
lasting through the 1980s.   For example, the Yarimca TSP subproject was
restructured to supply the increasing demand for NPK fertilizers; IGSAS
ultimately changed its ammonia production base from expensive naphtha to
cheaper and more efficient natural gas feedstock; and other firms de-
emphasized phosphoric acid production in favor of low-cost importation of the
intermediate. The declining demand for TSP led to the cancellation of the
Iskenderun subproject; and AKGUBRE cancelled its plan to produce low-nutrient
ammonium sulphate fertilizer because of import competition at depressed
prices.   Such changes,  however, were  all consistent with the overall
cbjectives of the Projects to modernize and upgrade performance of Turkey's
fertilizer industry and economically meet the country's fertilizer
requirements. As a result of the two Projects, it is to be noted that the
average capacity utilization in the fertilizer sector in Turkey has increased
from about 40 percent in 1979 to about 75 percent in 1990. The production of
N and P increased during the last decade by 1162 to nearly 1.8 million
nutrient tons in 1990 (Table 15 of Part III).



- 12 -
6.2      Technical Performance.  The Projects succeeded in the attainment of
much improved and satisfactory fertilizer production rates, on a sustainable
basis, from the rehabilitated facilities; while the overall investment costs
in doing so have remained generally in line with the initial estimates,
despite the prolonged implementation period and taking into account the scope
of changes and cancellations that became necessary.   The Projects have
succeeded in achieving better efficiency in material consumption and
attaining considerable (10-15 percent) energy saving in different plants.
Training under the Projects which was mostly organized locally, has helped
improved efficiency especially in operation and maintenance.
6.3      Sectoral Roforms.   The Fertilizer Marketing and Pricing Study
carried out under Ln 1985-TU, led to the liberalization of the fertilizer
marketing system as weli as to the reform of the fertilizer pricing system.
As a result of the marketing reform DONATIM and SEKER do not now have the
monopoly for fertilizer marketing, even though they are still active in
fertilizer distribution in competition with other distributors (public and
private) including fertilizer producers and importers.  Imports have been
liberalized and protective tariffs have been reduced to low levels (as shown
in Table 15 of Part III). Under the current fertilizer pricing system, the
Government does not subsidize fertilizer plants for their losses. However,
the Government continues to subsidize fertilizers to farmers. The subsidies
range frcm 27 percent to 52 percent, depending on the type of fertilizer (as
shown in Table 16 of Part III). The total amount of fertilizer subsidy has
come down in current terms from US$623 million in 1981 to about US$450
million in 1990. However, the fertilizer subsidy level is still high and it
is one of the causes of the budget deficit in Turkey.
6.4   Financial  Performance.      The  financial  statement  of  the  loan
beneficiaries are shown in Tables 17-28. TUGSAS, GUBRE, AKDENIZ and KBI were
not able to generate internal funds to the extent envisaged during appraisal.
They relied partly on capital increase by shareholders and partly on loans
from local banks to make up the shortfall in cash generation to finance the
projects.
6.5      Among the beneficiary companies, IGSAS and EGE are financially sound
and are able to meet the covenants agreed with the Bank with respect to
liquidity, financial structure and debt service.  The financial situ.ation of
AKDENIZ, which had deteriorated because of the year-long labor strike in
1989, is showing improvement under the new management following privatization
in early 1990. GUBRE has improved its liquidity and financial structure with
the injection of additional capital by shareholders. In 1990, the company
regained profitability following losses during the preceding three years.
There is a continuing financial crisis in both TUGSAS and KBI (Tables 19-20
and 27-28 of Part III). They are not able to meet the financial covenants
agreed with the Bank.
6.6      The problems of TUGSAS and KBI are partly due to overstaffing, poor
operational, maintenance and inventory control systems, lack of use of modern
accounting and financial management systems, inadequate attention to cost



- 13 -
control, productivity improvement and marketing, and difficulty in attracting
and retaining qualified and competent personnel. TUGSAS performance is also
adversely affected by delays in receiving payment of farmgate fertilizer
subsidy from the State and delays in authorized capital injections from the
Government (the sole shareholder) which necessitate the Company to borrow
short-term loans (which are often rolled over) from commercial banks at high
annual interest rates (ranging from 60-70 percent) for working capi4tal and
investment purposes.
6.7      TUGSAS is not able to make debt service payments.  The Government
has been making those payments on behalf of TUGSAS.   The Government is
charging 60 percent interest on these payments. In this context, the Bank
has suggested to the Government to write-off those pryments against the
Government's outstanding unpaid capital to TUGSAS. This measure is necessary
as a part of the financial restructuring of TUGSAS to make its prospective
privatization attractive to investors.
6.8      KBI's financial situation deteriorated sharply in 1990 (Tables of
27-28 of Part III) partly due to a 75-day labor strike and partly due to a
threefold increase in wages.  KBI is not able to service its debt and the
EXIM Bank (formerly DYB through which the IBRD loan portion to KBI was
channelled) is doing the debt servicing on behalf of KBI. KBI should get its
share capital increased and pay off the outstanding payments to the EXIM
Bank. These measures would improve the prospects for the privatization of
KBI.
6.9      Sales Price.  Under the price reforms carried out in the sector in
mid-1986, fertilizer producers/distributors have the flexibility to determine
the farmgate price. They, however, get a farmgate subsidy per ton of product
sold from the Government (Table 16 of Part III).   This subsidy which is
determined by the Government on a product by product basis, changes more or
less every six months. Even though price controls on the farmgate price have
been removed, the Government distributing agency, DONATIM, is still the
market leader in setting farmgate prices.   Further, the world fertilizer
prices which influence the ex-factory fertilizer Drices including the
fertilizer farmer subsidy fixed by the Government, con.'nue to be depressed.
As a result, fertilizer companies (except IGSAS which has a comparatively
modern plant and which operates very efficiently) have not been showing much
financial profitability. This situation is expected to change in the future
when world fertilizer prices are projected to increase in real terms as world
supply/demand situation for fertilize2. tighten because of low investment in
the world on new fertilizer plants in the 1980's due to fertilizer oversupply
and depressed prices.  When world fertilizer prices recover and approach
their long-term equilibrium levels, the local ex-factory prices would also
increase in Turkey, making the operation of fertilizer plants more
profitable.
6.10     Financial and Economic Rates of Return.  The financial and economic
performance of the Projects are shown in Tables 11-12 of Part III.   The
financial and economic rates of return for the subprojects are substantially



- 14 -
lower than the appraisal e.'imates partly because of project delays and
partly because of prolonged depression of the domestic and world fertilizer
prices during the 1980s. However, taking into account the projected recovery
in world fertilizer prices in the future and consequent increases in the
domestic fertilizer prices in Turkey, all the subprojects show acceptable
FRRs and ERRs. The FRRs range from 14.4 percent to 27.1 percent; and the
ERRs range from 9.2 percent to 31.9 percent. Among the subprojects, Kutahya
II (of TUGSAS) is showing the lowest economic rate of return (9.2 percent)
because ammonia production in that plant base oi lignite has been curtailed
since the completion of rehabilitation in 1987 because imported ammonia (due
to depressed market conditions) had been available at prices lower than the
ammonia production cost at Kutahya II. This situation is expected to change
in the future as world ammonia prices rise to their long-term equilibrium
level, inducing the Kutahya II ammonia plant to maximize capacity
utilization.
6.11     ImDact of Prolects.  As nored, in spite of project delays and lower
than expected world fertilizer prices, all components of the two projects are
still economic. The projects have helped overcome the technical problems of
the selected fertilizer plants in Turkey. As a result, the overall capacity
utilization in the fertilizer sector in Turkey has gone up from hardly 40
percent in 1979 to about 75 percent in 1990.   The projects have also
contributed significantly to energy saving (10-15 percent) and reduction in
environmental pollution.  Further, the three studies (i.e. the Fertilizer
Marketing and Pricing, the TUGSAS Management Improvement Study and the
Fertilizer Raw Material Resource Study) have contributed to significant
reforms and improvements in the fertilizer sector.
6.12     Privatization.   Through the physical restructuring of the plants
which were operating at very low capacity because of serious technical
problems, the Projects have improved the prospects for the privatization of
the rehabilitated complexes.   The Government has already announced its
intention to privatize all state economic enterprises (SEEs) including TUGSAS
and KBI.   One fertilizer company, AKDENIZ, has already been privatized
following rehabilitation.   Fifty one percent share in that company was
acquired by TOROS GUBRE, a private sector fertilizer company in Turkey. As
a result, the management control of AKDENIZ has been assumed by TOROS GUBRE
from January 1990. Since privatization, measures have been taken to reduce
the debt of the Company in order to improve its future profitability (Tables
23-24 of Part III). Currently, the state-owned Ziraat Bankasi, which holds
about 49 percent of the shares of GUBRE (a beneficiary of Ln. 1985-TU) is
trying to sell them as under the new Banking Law all commercial banks are
encouraged to divest their share holdings in industrial enterprises.
Further, in the case of IGSAS, whose operational efficiency is comparable to
modern plants in the world following modernization (under Ln 1985-TU), 1/
1/ In the IGSAS plant, the energy consumption per ton of ammonia, for
example, has declined by about 14 percent from 10.1 million kcal to 8.7
million kcal following modernization. Further, the plant is currently



- 15 -
there is strong private sector interest in its privatization. EGE, another
beneficiary (under Ln 2131-TU), is in the private sector.
7.    Compliance with Covenants
7.1   All covenants have been complied with except:
-    The  Government  has  not  streamlined  payment  procedures  to
fertilizer producers and has not adopted effective administrative
procedures to ensure that producers are paid in a timely manner. This has
created a financial crisis in some companies in the fertilizer sector.
- TUGSAS and KBI have not taken measures to get annual accounts to
be prepared promptly and satisfactorily by training more accountants and
using external accounting firms, if necessary, so that the High Auditing
Board could finalize the audit within four months of the end of the
accounting period.
- TUGSAS and KBI are not meeting the current ratio covenant and the
debt  service  coverage  covenant.    ADKENIZ,  which  is  improving
production performance since privatization in January 1990, is not
yet able to meet the current ratio covenant.
8.    Prolect Sustainabilitv
8.1      As noted, technical problems of the plants of TUGSAS, IGSAS, GUBRE,
AKDENIZ, EGE and KBI have been overcome, and the plants are economic
following rehabilitation/modernization.   As for the individual companies,
IGSAS has been meeting the financial covenants (current ratio of 1.3:1,
debt/equity ratio of 60/40 and debt service coverage of 1.5 times) since
1987. GUBRE, which did not meet some financial covenants during 1986-89, was
able to meet all the covenants in 1990 because of sharp increases in its
crading activity and improvement in financial management. AKDENIZ, which had
also problems in meeting financial covenants during 1986-89, is showing
improvement in financial performance following privatization in January 1990.
In 1990, it was able to have a debt service coverage ratio of over 1.5 times
and a debt/equity ratio of lower than 60/40.   EGE, the private sector
company, showed losses during 1989 and 1990 due to strong comp:tition from
imports at low prices and also due to labor strikes. It was not able to meet
the debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 times during those years. However,
its financial position is forecast to improve in 1991 with the rising world
fertilizer prices and the resolution of the labor problem. TUGSAS and KBI,
as noted, are continuing to face serious financial problems. As noted they
have been showing losses during 1987-90 and have not been able to meet
financial covenants. Their financial situation might get worse partly due to
high short-term borrowings at high interest rates. The plants of both TUGSAS
and KBI are, however, economic. (The economic viability of the Kutahya II
operating at slightly above the attainable capacity.



- 16 -
plant of TUGSAS could be improved with further investment for switching over
from lignite to natural gas as feedstock). Bank has urged the Government to
privatize TUGSAS and KBI on a priority basis consider4-g the fact that their
financial losses have been increasing in spite of their potential for
profitable operation. They are expected to regain profitability following
proposed privatization.
9. Bank Performance
9.1      The bank helped the Government develop an overall program for
rehabilitation/modernization of the fertilizer sector through a project
preparation fund (PPF) advance. A consultant study subsequently provided the
basis for rehabilitation/modernization of the fertilizer industry in Turkey.
As the task was very complex, it was decided to carry it out in two Bank
operations  involving six companies and eight plants.   The Bank showed
flexibility in changing the project scope of some subprojects when it was
justified in the light of (i) the changing demand pattern for fertilizers;
(ii) the international price situation for fertilizr- intermediates and
finished products; (iii) results of detailed plant inspection by engineering
firms prior to bid offers; and (iv) a changing situation with respect to
fertilizer feedstock supply (e.g., the arrangements for supply of Soviet
natural gas to Turkey which were made following the Bank approval of the
Projects). The Bank also showed flexibility in agreeing to a change in the
approach to the implementation of the plant rehabilitation/implementation
work. As a result, most of the work was carried out when the plants were
down for annual maintenance and/or emergency repairs.  This was agreed to
minimize decline in fertilizer production during Project implementation. The
original approach proposed at the appraisal stage was to carry out the
rehabilitation/
modernization work in one step by closing the plants. As a result of the
change in the approach, the Project implementation took a much longer time
than originally estimated. Therefore, the time required for supervision of
the two Projects was significantly more than anticipated earlier.
9.2      The Bank served as a catalyst in the privatization of one fertilizer
company (AKGUBRE) in January 1990 follawing the completion of rehabilitation
of its plant at Mersin.   The company performance has improved remarkably
since privatization.  The Bank is now working with the Governrent in the
privatization of other beneficiaries of the two loans in the public (i.e.,
TUGSAS, IGSAS and KBI) and joint sectors (i.e., GUBRE).
9.3      The Bank has also played an important role in designing the projects
with particular attention to energy saving and reduction in environmental
pollution. As noted, results in iese areas have been significant.
9.4      The main shortcomings in the Bank's role in the Projects were:  (i)
the price assumptions for financial and economic calculations proved
optimistic; (ii) the change in the pattern of demand for specific products
following price liberalization was not foreseen clearly at the time of
appraisal; (iii) the option of project implementation over a longer period



- 17 -
with a view to minimizing production declinn wae not exami ed closely; and
(iv) the Bank did not put adequate pressure on the Government and the
companies during annual project implementation reviews to rectify violation
of financial covenants in a timely manner.
10.   Borrower's Performance
10.1     The Government (the Borrower) worked closely with the Bank and
provided full support to the rehabilitation of the fertilizer sector.
However, it did not take prompt measures to rectify the non-compliance with
financial covenants by loan beneficiary companies such as TUGSAS, KBI, GUBRE
and AKDENIZ  .   Further,  in the case of TUGSAS and KBI, in which the
Government is the sole shareholder, the authorized capital increases to the
companies were not paid in a timely manner, causing liquidity and debt
service problems for the companies. Moreover, the Government is continuing
with farmer fertilizer subsidy which costs the Treasury about US$450 million
a year. As the Price Stabilization Fund from which the fertilizer subsidy is
paid is often short of money, the Government is not able to provide the
compensation payments to fertilizer producers in a timely manner.   This
situation has caused a major working capital problem for the fertilizer
companies in general. With the Gcvernment payments being delayed too long
(3-4 months), the companies have to resort to short-term borrowings at high
interest to finance working capital. As a result, the interest burden on
fertilizer companies have increased sharply in recent years. Further, the
Government has been slow in proceeding with the privatization of fertilizer
companies, in spite of the announced policy for privatization of state-owned
enterprises in general. The fertilizer companies which have had their plants
rehabilitated under the two Bank loans are ready for privatizationi and the
Government should give priority to these in the privatization process.
11. Consulting Services
11.1     A number of consulting and engineering firms were involved in the
execution of the subprojects under the two loans. Overall, their performance
was satisfactorv. However, their performance could have improved if all the
companies had full-time project teams with capable company personnel. In the
case of one foreign engineering firm which had a local sub-contractor for a
specific task in the GUBRE plant, the foreign firm experienced problems with
the local sub-contractor as the latter refused to carry out certain
modifications which the foreign firm recommended.



- 18 -
12.   Lessons
12.1        The main lessons learned  from the projects  can be briefly
summarized as follows:
(a) Complexity of revamping old plants of different vintage have to
be taken into account more fully in determining the project
implementation schedule; and more attention is needed for risk
assessment of those old plants.
(b)  While financing rehabilitation projects, agreements should be
sought on a schedule for privatization.
(c) Project scope changes are to be anticipated in rehabilitation
projects as detailed plant inspection work progresses.
(d) Possible changes in the pattern of demand for specific products
have to be taken into account in determining the project scope.
(e)    It  is  necessary  to  include  a bonus/penalty  clause  in
engineering  and  construction  contracts  to  expedite  project
completion.
(f) Full-time project teams staffed with adequate experienced and
capable personnel are essential for successful implementation.
(g)   Details of the training program,  especially training of
selected personnel abroad should be worked out during project
preparation.
(h)  More attention should be given to improving accounting and
financial management aystems in public sector companies.
(i)  The approach to Bank forecasting of fertilizer prices need
review.
(j)  Bank should exert more pressure on the Govenment and loan
beneficiaries to comply with covenants in the legal documents.



- 19 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
TfHE REPUDBILIC OF TURKEY
PRIME MINISTRY
TH1E UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY AND FOREIGN TRADE
Ref:DFt-rV-4-!55/85                                      Ankara, January 6,1992
Mr.Vranco BATZELLA              ENERGY DCVISION
Indubtry and Enoergy Divinion CORRESMi"D4ENCE
ESU, CD 1                        LOG NO.:
ThP. World hank                  DATE RE'D:
httshiii gton l).C.              ASSIGiNED TO     A
U.S1.3A.
0DAT E R ESZD    -ITL-
Ref: Project  Completion  Report   of   First  and   Second
Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving Projects.
!'irst of all, we would like to extend our deep appreciation
for your invaluable contributions and kind cooperation during the
implementation peri.od of the referred projec:t and also for well
preparecl Proaject. Completioll Itcport (PCR).
To  start  with,  we  have  some  comments  on  the  serntion
concerving Dorrower'Si Performance.
Concerning the TreaRury's action on belhlf of the Borrower
in the PCR, it's mentioned that Treasury did not take prompt
measures  to rectifv the noncompliance with financial   covenants
by  loan  beneficiary companies.  Even It was the fact  that  the
Treasury  had from time to time some difficulties in compensating
lon   )beneficiaries  for duty losses and making  paid-in  capital
increases in a timely manner due to macro economic  difficulties,
overall efficiency,  profitability and all other financial ratios
were   still improving  for  these  companies  as  the  projects'
imnpltlment81.ion  were proceeding well and leading to  producrtivity
gfti.ns as also clearly indicated it. various Biank supervision
reports in the paist,
Tra this respect, paid irn capital of TUGSAA has reached to
431   billion TI.  atnd TtIGSAS's receivables fr-om  the  Government
have been fully r-ecovered. Further, all fertilizer manufacturers
and     distributers,    including  TUGSAM  were  paid  for  their
receivables  rrising from fertilizer subsidies out of  the  Price
Stabilizat-ion Fund's resources a.s of 29.8.1991. It has to be also
emnphasized that Lhe Government's initiative to privatize the
distributio  of  ferti.lizer  has been  a major  reform  for  the
liberalization  of  fertilizer  marketitng and pricing  systemii  of
'Turkey.  Furthlermo?e,  with the liberalization of imports and the
reduction   in  tariff  rates,   this  Sector  has  become   more
(;0mpctitive, as well.



- 20 -
Inr  order  to   protect  the  proJect  beneficiaries   from
continuous working capital problems, whieh are causing these
companies resort to short-term borrowing at high interest  rates,
the  Treasury  has been working on supplying TUGSA$ with a $  100
million  long  term loan under  its  guarantee.  Similarly,  Tilrk
Eximbank is in an effort to re-schedule the term structure of
all  loans to KB?,  which are due by the and of  1990  (including
also thoise of 88.7 billion TL to Eximbank itself). To this end, a
J)rotocol  was signied betweon KBI,  Eti-bank (major shareholder  of
K131  by 99.9 %) and TUrk Eximbank1 on  20.12.1990.  TUrk  Eximbank
also  provided  to   Kbl  a lIine of credit of  the   same  anmount
agai.nst this enterprise's maturing debts to itself. In addition
to  t}lis,  the  maturity of the loan (1998-TU) to  KBJ  bas  been
extended lby Turk Eximbanik until Maroh 3096.
There  is also a strong emphasis in thLe rcR that TUGSAS  and
KBt slouldl  be privati2ed as soon as possible.  In this  respect,
it  is  claimed  that  those  firms will  be  economically  viable
throughl  the increase in efficiency of management as a result  of
privatization.  As  It  was previously explained to the  Bank  on
several occasions, privatization of these companies will be
hiiiidled  within the framework of the  Government's  privatization
plan which is already under study.  However, when  TUGSAS KUtabya
Plant  Reh:abilitation  is  re-considered,  this  Plant  has  been
incurring   significant  losses  eventhough  its   rehabilitation
process  was completed.  This is mainly because of lignite  based
expernsive amoniac dependent style of fertilizer production.
Hence,  at  this  stage,  it is difficult to expect that  KUtahya
Plant to be easily privatized. Privatization of this Plant can
only be possible, if fertilizer production technics will be
transformed from lignite to natural gas based processes.
When we assess the current sJtuation of anme beneficiary
companies ; Rlaz3g affiliate of TUGSA$ has been modified as to
allow  a privatization operation,  by the High  Planning  Counicil
Decision.  Besides,  it  Is aimed for the privatization  purposes
t.hat  the management of TUGSA$ has to be in full compliance  with
the sound managerial and marketing principals without waiting the
st rengthening  (if iLt  tibrancial struc1ture.
KB1,  on  the other hland,  has bean incurring losses on  its
overall  balance-sheet  despite its protitability ont  operations.
The  reason for these losses is interest expenses on  KBI's  bank
loians.  In this context., K1I3  is expected to suffer from a loAs of
179.9 billion TL in 1991. When international blister prices in
this  year  are considered,  in August the price level fell to  $
2015 from January's level of $ 2404. For this reason. selling
prices are well below the cost and leading to an accumulation of
substantial stocks.  Therefore, it is hard to envisage KBJ in the
near future to be an enterprise restoring its ffnancial viability
and  repaying  its all debt.  We also share your  concerns  about
pr ivotizotion  such that te shares need to be sold to  employees
expertized on copper production and to foreign specialised firms
in this tield.



- 21 -
With regard to IGSA$'s situation# t.his firm reached to a
profit level of 21.3 billion Tt,. in 199(3. Furthtermore, during the
first  half of 1991,  IGSAS made a full  utilizatio0, of its  urea
production capacity and increased its profits-to 45 billion TL.
In 1990,  1GSAS's production accounted for 81 % of total domestic
urea consumptionL. Even though, after the second half of 1.988,
more  exponsive nattral gas    was started to be used instead  of
naphta as a raw material in tGSA$'s Plant, a significant
reduction in costs has been realized. When considered Its
achievements, IGSA$ should take pri.ority in privatization well
beforc TU1GSA$ Atnd KBI.
As  a conclu%ionary point,  it could be said that  the  main
aims of the project were realized. In general, the projects were
well-suited on overcoming technical problems of public and
private  plaDts  through increasing  energy  savings,  preventing
environmental, pollution and developing organizational structures
and satisfying educational needs.  As a rcsult of these,  sector-
wide capacity utilization increased from 40 . in 1979 to 75 %
during and aft;er the implementation of both projects. As a matter
of  fact.,  capacity  utilization could not he increased   further,
hecausso  of  growing  importations sousrced by  low  internati.onot i
prices.
Some of the beneticiary firms, namely IGSAS, GUBRETA$
AKD)ENIZ  GUWREs  TUGSA$  have individual comments regarding  witlh
the Project Completion Report and these are also conveyed for
your consideratiun, in the enclosures.
liest regards
Sincere y_ Yours
0tevn OZGfdN
lbeputy Difecto' C,:ret?t
c4 Forelion t;Vr cn
}ncl5s; l(SA 's comment.s on PCR
QUJRBTA$ comments on PCR
AKDENIZ  ;UDfRE's viuws and comments on PCR
TLJUSAVS  views and comments nn PCR



- 22 -
IGSAS
Reterring tv Article 0.2 on page 15
It  must be takenin to consideration thdt taSAS as ment.ioned
at  the bottom lrie of page (Itl) of PCR,   isn't a joint  but  a
public sector institution.
GUERETAS
Referring to Article 12.1/J on page 16, the following issues
may  be proposed in the context of the complianice of the  project
implementing institutions to covenants of loan agreements
Afs  it's  known, loani beneficiary  institutions  face  many
vommitments generated by the loan agreement. These commitments
generally  include important. financial covenAnts,  such as to  be
audited by on independent audit firm and to comply with some
tinarcial ratio; in the project implementation process.  However,
the  loan  beneficiaries  weren't   able  to  comply  with  their
commitments and the World Bank hasn't exerted interventionist
pressures  anymore  over  those  institutions  due  to   Treasury
guarantee.  For  this  reason,  we  are of the opinion  that  the
Treasury should implement various measures such as to control the
realization  of the institutional obligations and in the case  of
non-compliance with financial covenants to suspend the relevant
part of credit.



- 23 -
Sjucctj    ; Vitaws a;r. ct,itner4s of A'kdtc'Lz Cil:xLe c.n th,-.-is
cf thr: Px'-e.ct Wnlilc'tior 1wiX4.CIL i Rimai by th.
W1ld3 HaO   wtere Akd.3cniz (Xb.v. lx r.crvcd to  In crntexi..
vk-; liav  reviewo d c  t)o. iev) Y.C.R. vr.d wuluci llike to Oonr;rat
as fo1!.ows:
1.  P1s mefer to Art 4.4  cn P, '
WC! would brirq to youir attAzition thal. th,  ac,5iqctnL of only
crhe adv1ior to the projet waa  in ac  r(nce with parac;raph
c c)f tlf, Artic1el  2.02 of tly. )lcMlblitat jun Projtxre /,grnent
sigmre1 1 y Nutibje arnd thfr Worl(d MAnk.
In ampliance with the abov:  wgreftir.t a*na pirvxint to Advisoi-y
ServiceS kjrraYsmint  r0gnel w'ith Creuwr atm1 OW +1hich
.tlsc, vs approvy L y tfl  1hbrld J3!n, ori aldvisor was asSirned
to AW pyubr q-r)ojc;t tn.tU.
Tn t.h  tviiinn j, perfolttiiiflc  anid capabiAttAies of the first
advi=sc7 SrOeC-eedr3     tc)   tU.*' W   M&qtucite1.  Thribcre ury)n
&.irnx=l(.1  tA ; xro lev wzs replA]crd by arc,     4uciisor.
I1) scuz=nY     wc )L-jieVe t;hlt dirinz4 enigineerinn r'    .e of t!ht
prr-jec,t, assis:t;wtx,  and r-Trv'i)es cf thiL advisor    te.h  prcCjeCt
sas Very satisfactory. Unsequetly, LitrH   was mt ajy
Interiptbion or epjiy cv. wXk; th&t laid )een ccarriced oit
by A3qUbru1 witJhin t.ts.r .Oipe of the project.
.  Pleat' retcr tc Artic.  5.4 - S,5 ol praer, 6-'
WIl-en timt  .chpacble, issuedtit tte iriy sta. c   of the enrgneurinr
p,at;, in. %Luo.ec it. w.'11 bo rrd!iCed that: t;v're. is a omn:idcira1bde
;e); & l t),( J!v--;jr:ct l5cap)iticirs O.uto v^ivichad.
A. SY 1sirtl:h pe.rif.e' c' this cde].)Yt i. fr-mvwer solely c-Aised by.
t)K! c'+r,Sf~  s      l of A   rd Ci'TUoffc cf   -  t ewW rijimerinu fiJnii
(e.llcxjqg (.tXr;EtmntL  b.Rl .1 the  N  J* i1ands anrl thmr-fres tz.rusf!ri
of tr  plj:oc'  to t.hO .rloncton Cy(fice .;' I.S:. xer11qei ')uY.



- 24 -
Dta.a.Jedinfttini.tt;.r, regardim rxi3cxta.    trsausbix ,LvT .'o    Mnstcr&,-r
V;; L:r*r ay b> ip wg 65v  n 3-0evatnt rvolmoi; RmWsrt.s asad P.C'.o..
j Soud by ?Skqt.ibrci.
A3 8:,t terc! i. or; q par din,ay c,Gi thM- 'Reyi Ii t c t.oti Project
Are nt sigred with tht. W,.B to kcnxm.' efVec.Lvc wiicik us
eritire'ly die to time 0rnswtind   ne*otat4or.s wit  T.8.K.S.
actnq on beha1f o5 t.he 7ii*sh CI)et'1mv:xt for an aqroec-nt
tc) b r- it c) cor raletse of the W.B. crxlit a1lGocated for N9kib;e.
3.   1(e:.wXe refer tc) the secron(t s1-ntLerim  fr,re, t1  top of the
art.Acle 5.3 Oi page 6D tMit x@ds. "VUT  cap1eted an
eminoerirm  srvicos  rintA acl. wJLIh Kelloggj (W.Aand), flv
originO&? cuInoerlna Cv.ntryact"r f(r te t i  Cmplcs:...... "
it is rot i ftilly tU   s:tatownt of fuct, kecmne   I c.Alog
CoJ1tirmntal (llzand) was aorn,q      i ciminwring co.ntrActor
of thxo C,A.1.\  P3.wint only. 7t*v- origlrai    s wigiiatrinr   co ntracting
f.ims of the tw  otier p3lants rnclu&4  I1n t1t RehabilAltat1on
lr-oject: were liurij fKH/ FPir f0r tia* SWuribrurIc Acic t'lant mnd
L1Ay Mc, Y.e  (Originally Pint&b )Inag) /FRfr ft: the Nitric Acid
PI ant.
WVithin the SO'xs of thi Rehmbiit,tticn JIro-ijct the  ontracts
cuncli.u1Vd are witia )llogc W.mr;jinental tIll.nd) owiwring emr4iincrirn
!"cIVicOes Ctf bth C.A,k. and Nitric AMid Pla-iLs, ard with lurci
(tbl1/FrC  for thu Sulphiuric Acid Plar.t.
4. I'leave refer to att1cX4 4.5 oni gage S
We, are 1rt tVve opdnr;cr t.hat our prowut ltub va Qfftectivn asd
ecasftu  ir? technlial aslects or the l Jviilitaticn ProjcCt
durin]) tLi.. JVemm-rtelitc'  rar-i3  oii sOtL-, mms.ncqjaso  of
whL%ch evidencx-i hsy 95.5t% C&p2city utl 17tiricn of thei plLnLs
e.fcletIecy ire coy,n 'prtio.n of rma- matwrials., suvinq In powDr
Y)flstipti.}   ) cir cr o    i!l r.rloi.uctiont for tho ysa- 1990.



- 25 -
FIRST AND SECOND FERTILIZER RATIONALIZATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECTS
(LOANS 1985-TU AND 2131-TU)
COMMENTS FROM TUGSAS
Oult comments tAbout the subjectU  1elslJd to oLr Comp any stated in Project
Con,pletic'n  Rejmt  %Vhkich  was prepAterd  (ot  1irst  atid  Second  f.ertili.cr
Ratio:ualization itsid FRmetS,; Naving Ptojects (loan,- 1958-Tt) and 2131-TU) by
EMENA Tcchnlelt Ie)partrr eni arc givtn below.
The project catrietJ out by our Company undcr the scope of first Perrili&er
Rationalization and Envigy Shving Project (loan 1985$TU) consists yr thir7c
c*omnponents.
Rehtlbilitu.tion waut Energy !,aving Coinmcpnont
Under this scopc Klt(ahya-1! and Samstri Pla)ias we:e- rehabilitated  and thet
belowmantioned points werv achieved ufter ribtemoacval of technical bottIcnecks;
-ncrebsef of the capacity
Decrease of raw  uinaterial and entzgy consumptions
Decrease of environmental p(rllution
Takizig into. considerration thie uluve ameritionied p04rats we can say  that the
objectives of the project huve been eo-Whived  ftrom  the technical point of
view.
For the Implementatiorl of the project, the jlrojcct teami werc establiskled
at tht' feacdquamei tnd rt the Sites. of Somsur  and K1tahyr%. irl spite of
some drvlatlons occured tin thei progsainme, these teams which spent great
e!ffort  durir.;  the  implenetitation  of  the  projeIt ecnnpleted -. th   works
suceesfully.



- 26 -
The lJiall uroblero facs ld titnc rt tirr.; tas r.ot to 1e able to set. up pl ifect
coordination  between  the partics of TCIISA, lheadqutiarter, TUGSAs Samsuri
site, ffrcing and lucfi) mngirleetinr fiimns und supplier-.
TO)CGSAQ ttied  to gct matxiwiurn benefit frorrm  tchc:nical consulting servlces. As
It was known, Scieritific; Design C;o.l,td. wete selected for the consultancy
service&. 5clentific  t)esi&I Co.ltcl. hnd gliven lsis5 &ssistazce  ill the  foroaduarl
cdf projer.t otgnniswticru bot,h at heatdqluarter and plar?b levels, setting  up jot.
dufinitions, ptepatation  oi procteVrlciCnFt, Cost ond  titne  conttol  proccedurts.
Purthermote, TOCGSAS huc; benefits from their assistance and quidntce if,
cont,Art nergoiations,  nneetinl,s, solutions  cf disptjles nand  Scenltific  l:)esign
Co.Ltd.  hafd  atso  taken. part  in  erection  control,  inspectioiI  of  local
rnanufa-t,urhng during th,e progtess of tld  woik.
2-  Trairing Coimponent:
A rraining centre har., beci:r est,b!lished at Kiutahyyn with tthe support of tlex
United Nations Development progranm  (UNDP) and training facilities had lteen
deveclipcd. In additicni, opernting and mnlteTarsoc f pessoQrue) had becti trained
nr-Site by contrac:tors' xpecit.;scs. In  this way  local traitring  was ac.hieved
sati;fSatoffily.  IC,1cwe-veS freinsg  training  wus not achieved  as expected. F.I
this rec-son wre cvat say thnt tbh  geals of t?aining were not re-achredc ccnnplete;y.
3-  hianagement improvemnent Component
Thje final report whi-ch  was prepared  for murnatgenicnt impt:vemernt fly Price
Waterhou::e and  MO%0:,A  fizmris had been  subnmitted  to TOGSA5 on  5.6.190S.
T'he program  stitted in th;is !poit could not Ile full), applied not because v(g
the lack of adequate c-apablr middle level manmtgers but due to the unrealization
of the necessar)y regulatiota. for the legislation.
Aftltough  the  project ha5 rcochr;d  its  technical  ain  ua  nae'rntioaied  abo"C,
te-babilitated pshint ler. I'be;i cptiated ai low t7apaUiry) tduL  tu  the artificidll$
low  priccs: of ammcmiit aind fertilizer ir, the world  matket. For this tcmsicn
exre ctted financ-ial l,tofitahility hns not been reathed.



- 27 -
Our Cc;amInents ttittteci to tlit ptoblenais mentionu.d in the icport are o.5 follows.
Thumt iS niu covvs.&oaffini, ii our vornpai.). Thc pianned staff numnbcr of ows
co)mpat1v is fixed. When  sOln. stLAff retired  TUGSAS  had  nmade  a  conctact
with new  staff. 'Iocday tht, nurnbet  (f staui  workiasg in our vuvigpany is beiuw
from  planned staff ntimlber. *Yew staff had been tguined fizstly.
'Nvessary p'iecoution'. foC  imptovement  'F o.ecountit,g, financial manuternent,
coSI toritrul asdtl e,turkting prncedure  had  bcen  taken, Accounting  jobs had
been donte. b) ut;:ing o  curnpuLer systoni. 'tainir   of rtelated  staff had Lceca
doine conratinuously.
The organization of out Corilinny haiJt b'vvs revised and atccotdingly, Financ.ial
afid Mnaketing dtlprZLtmnta, l1avr bcon estabUished.
In addition, Cost Cotntrol Crrctql, has been esttiblishcd fcr the purpose of coms
ctintiol und for the inml,ovem'nent of produietivitr tecently.
Diffi:ult in retaining  qjualifietd pc:smavinerI )i;  beein de:rcased as a iesuit c f
the new personnel poicly of our Company.
-Some progie6s hits beern acilieved ti  decrense thy  financial problems* of our
Conmiany, recently.
W6L)lz. the Scope thle new  ezcnornical ncasurtfC  of the Glevernzttent, fcrmgate
fnttifi.i?t subs:idj  h*s! bccn incroasecd by t)e rate of 60 9% and VAT hlw been
doereased ftom  11 % to I %.
In atdldition, dtirtIng the meetln; held with Ctic.vcrnment authorities, it in promised
thot the paymenet   f farigiatte  feitilit.cr  subsidy  will be  nade  within, one
nionth.
In the view  of abto.v mrne!ttvr.ed prugimsre     it is expected  thut the bottlenecks
of nur Company will greut)y be ckoetased.



- 29 -
Ill. _TAIlSnCALINFORMAlnON
1. RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDrTS
Loan Number                                                         Date of
and Title                            Puroose                        Aporoval  Satus        Comments
845-O-TU and              To construct a 750 tpd ammonia            05/71      Completed   PCR lssuedJ
845-1 -TU                  plant and an 850 tpd urea plant          04173      12V75      June 1980
IGSAS Fertilizer          the project scope was later
Project                    expanded to 1.000 tpd ammonia
and 1,500 tpd urea under a
supplemental Bank loan.
2. PROJEECT TMETABLE
Planned Date         Revised Date         Actual Date
Loan Number                1985-TU    2131-TU   1985-TU   2131-TU   1985-TU   2131-TU
identificatlon             08/30/80    08/30180    -          -     06/30/80     06/30/80
Appraisal Mission          02/02/81   05/15/81     -          -     12V21/80   07/07/81
Board Approval             07/15/81   06/30181     -          -     05/07/81     04/27/82
Loan Signature             08/15181   07/30181     -          -     05/15181     05/13/82
Loan Effectiveness         09/15/81   08/30-81     -          -     08/28181     04/13183
Loan Closing               12/31/86    06/30/87 12/31/87      -     12/31/89     06/30187
12/31/88
1V/31/89



- 30 -
3.  LOAN 0I9URSM          (US$ million)
Table 1: LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE (LOAN 1985-TU)
Calender Year           AppasaEL                   Actual
and Quartser            (Cumulative)            (Cumulative)
1981
IV                   6.60                   0.01
1982
I                    w160                 0.80
11                 21.00                   1.37
HII                35,00                   3.40
IV                  4.00                    5.01
*1983
1                 68.00                   9.68
11                 79.00                  10.94
III                84.50                   12.85
IV                  89.00                  14.40
1964
1                 91.50                  21.18
11                 93.50                  25.31
III                99.00                  30.49
IV                  99.00                  34.32
1985
1                 104.50                 45.39
II                107.50                  48.80
III                107.50                 53.53
IV                 110.00                  56.66
1966
I                                        62.48
II.                                       6.05
III                                       69.16
IV                                         71.50
1987
1                                        73.30
1                                        75.72
III                                       76.19
IV                                         83.08
1988
87.28
11                                        90.90
III                                       92.40
IV                                         93.53
1989
1                                        95.90
1                                        96.72
III                                       97.76
IV                                         97.85
1990
I                                        98.16
II                                        98.19 a/
at USS11,814,330.36 wascanceled at the requea ot the Borrower.



- 31 -
Table 2: LOAN DISBURSEMENT (L.OAN 2131-TU)
Calendar                       Appraisal                Actual
Year and                      Cumulative              Cumulative
Quarter                      Disbursement           Dlsbursement
1982
liI                            2.80
IV                             3.70
4983
1                             5.00
1                             6.80                   0.57
liI                           10.70                   0.66
IV                             14.30                   0.68
1984
17.60                   1.57
11                            21.70                   1.88
iii                           25.80                   2.08
IV                            30.10                    2.83
1985
I                            33.00                   3.95
11                            35.20                   5.11
liI                           37.40                   6.79
IV                            38.90                    7.61
1986
1                            41.70                   9.50
11                            43.10                  11.13
IlI                           44.10                   17.97
IV                                                    25.07
1987
1                                                   26.27
1i                                                   26.15
IiI                                                  26.48
IV                                                    26.96 b/
b/ USS17,142.346.77 was cancelled at the request of the Borrower.



- 32 -
4   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
TahIa .: PROJECT COMPLETION SCHEDULE
Original
Schedule        Actual
I.  First RationalIzation and
Eneray Savina Prolect
TUGSAS
- Kutahya II                         12/83             9/85
- Samsun I and 11                     6/84            12/89
IGSAS
- lzmit                              12/83            12/85 a/
GUBRE
- Yarimca                             9/84             1/90 b/
11. Second Fertilizer RatIonalization
and Enerav Savina Prolect
EGE GUBRE
- Foca                                2/85             8/86 C/
AKDENIZ GUBRE
- Mersin                              9/85             8/87
KBI
- Samsun                              7/85             8/89
a/ Modification of the IGSAS ammonia plant to use natural gas which was approved by the
Bank In 1986 (following the completion of the original sub-project) was completed
in December 1989.
b/ The plant started production In March 1989 but problems in the washing and dedusting
systems and the formulation of 15-15-15 are continuing. They are expected to be solved
by Krebs (France) by August 1991.
c/ Additional modifications in the Ege Gubre facilities at Foca to produce complex fertilizers
approved by the Bank (following the completion of the original subproject In 1986) was
was completed in June 1988.



- 33 -
5. LIST OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER
LOANS 1985-TU AND 2131-TU
Table 4;L UST OF LOAN BENEFICIARIES
- nBank Loan
Beneficiaries          Original        Actual Disbursed
i)  Loan 1 985-TU:
TUGSAS                69.00                 70.90
IGSAS                 20.60                 19.73
GUBRE                 20.60                  7.19
GOTISPO                0.40                  0.37
110.00 a/             98.19
II)  Loan 2131-TU:
GUBRE                  6.10                     - b/
AKDENIZ GUBRE         25.28                15.572
EGEGUBRE               2.97                 1.131
KBI                    7.92                 9.078
GOT/SPO                 1.83                1.101
44.10 C/            26.958
al A totl of USS11,814,330.3a was cancelled from Loan 1985-TU.
b/ GUBRE subproject was cancelled subsequently.
cl A total of US$17,142,346.77 was cancelled from Loan 2131-TU.



- 34 -
6. PROJECT COST
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS al
(USS million)
---Appraisal Estimate---  ---Revised Estimate----
Local Foreign   Total     Local Foreign   Total
.  First Rehabilitation Prolert
TUGSAS
- Kutahya II                  30.50   50.60   81.10      27.35   45.50   72.85
- Samsun                      320   27.40   66.60        42.74   3868   81.42
Sub Total                  69170   78.00  147.70      70.09   84.18  154.27
mm.  .m.    =mm..          mm.    mm.      m..
IGSAS
- izmit                        9.70   25.90   35.60       4.79   24.78   28.57 a/
G3UBRE
- Yarimca                     25.90   26.70   52.60      20.10    9.75   29.85
SPO
-Studies                       030 0040    0.70           0.30    0 38    068
TOTAL                     105.60  131.00  236.60      95.28  119.09  213.37
mm..   mm..   mm..          mm.   mm..       ..
I1. Second Rehabilitation Proiect
EGE GUBRE
- Foca                         2.70    3.47    6.17       1.26    2.46    3.72 bl
AKDENIZ GUBRE
- M"sn                        19.10   34.08   53.18      14.33   39.62   53.95
KBI
- Samsun                       6.00    9.12   15.12      18.16   29.06   47.22
StO
- Studies                      100    1.8      2 83       1.00    183    2.83
TOTAL                      28.80   48.50   77.30 c/  34.75   72.97  107.72 c/
.m.    mm.    m. mmm.    mm.    mm..
a/  Including Interest during construction and Initial working capital.
bl  Including the cost of additional mnodification/rationalization agreed subsequent to the Loan approval.
cl  After cancelling the GUiRE subproject at Iskenderun.



- 35 -
7. PROJECT FINANCING
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING (LOAN 1985-TU)
(USS million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual   Variance
1. Deb
IBRD                        110.00    98.19     -11.81
Other                         -m                +L=
110.00    107.19    e 7.19
2.  1g&
a) Internal Funds             86.6     24.50    -62.10
b) Other                     4000      82.68     +42.68
Sub-Total                  128.6    107.18    - 19.42
Total Financino              236.6    214.37    -22.23
-           -_
Table7: ALLOCATION OF BANK (LOAN 1985-TU)
(USS million equivalent)
Loan                Final
Category                            Agreement            Disbursement
Equipment, Materials
and spares                               79.00               64.86
Technical Services                        13.60               21.99
Training                                   3.40                0.39
Refund of Project Prepration Funds         0.60                0.45
Studies                                    3.40                2.23
Interest During Construction              1000                 8.27
TOTAL                                110.00               98.19
_B



- 36 -
7. PROJECT FINANCING   (Continued)
Table 8: PROJECT FINANCING (LOAN 2131-TU)
(USS milion equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual    Variance
1. Debt
IBRD                         44.1       26.956    -17.142
Other                          -        37.672     +37.162
44.1      64.630     +20.530
2. Equity
Intemal Funds                40.4       20.500     -19.90
Other                          -        21.92       21.92
Sub-Total                   40.4       42.42      + 2.02
3. Govemment (for study)          1.0         1.0        -
Total Financina              85.5      107.72      22.22
_           -
Table 9: ALLOCATION OF BANK LOAN (LOAN 2131-TU)
Loan        Final
Category                       Agreement    Disbursement
Equipment, Materials
and Spares                      30.41               22.133
Technical Services                7.82               3.724
Training                          3.42               0.0
Study                             1.80               0.539
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan        0.65               0.562
TOTAL                        44.1               26.958
.               _U



- 37 -
& PROJECT RESULTS
Table 10: CAPACITY UnLIZATON OF PLANTS BEFORE AND AFTERREHABILITATION
Production                  Capacity Utilization (%)
Before                   Before
Rehabilita-    1990      Rehabilita-    1990
Capacity/Plants             Products    Capacity     tion      (Actual)         tion      (Actual)
-------- Product Tons -
1.  TUGSAS
(a) Kutahya II     TAN                50,000      18,675   39.410          37          79
CAN (26% N)      273.500     209,152  225,735          49          82
(b) Samsun         TSP (45% P)       220,000     132.800   36,175          60          17 a/
DAP(18-46-0)     227.000     121,000  146.200          53          64
II. IGSAS
lvnit            Urea (46% N)      561,000     365,000  563.312          65          100
IlI.  GUBRE FABRIKALARI
Yarimca          NPK I             200,000     157,980  200,060          79          100
NPK II           200.000           -  218,345           -
IV. EGE GUBRE
Foca             NPK               306,500     196,050  191,055          64          62al
V. AKDENIZ GUBRE
Mersin           DAP (18-48-0)     148,500      68,922   66.288          46          45 a/
CAN (26% N)      594,000     224,950  567,380          38          96
VI. KBI
Samsun           Sulphuric Acid    282,920      33,645  169,752          12          60
Blister Copper    38,760      11,120   22,645          29          59
a/  Production was reduced because of Import competition under depressed world prices.



- 38 -
8. PROJECT RESULTS (Continued)
Table 11: ECONOMIC IMPACT
Economic Rate of Return (V)
Appraisal         Revised
Estimate          Estimate
First Proiect
IGSAS Subproject                          67.5              31.9
TUGSAS Samsun Subproject                  34.6              26.7
TUGSAS Kutahya II Subproject              35.8               9.2
GUBRE Subproject                          39.1              21.9
Overall First Project                     42.8              22.1
Seondg Prolect
Akdeniz Gubre Subproject                 43.6               20.0
EGE Gubre Subproject                     49.3               15.0
KBI Subproject                           66.2               24.9
Overall Project                          49.4               21.6
Table 12: FINANCIAL IMPACT
Financial Rate of Return (Vo)
Appraisal         Revised
Estimate          Estimate
First Proiet
IGSAS Subproject                          69.4              24.3
TUGSAS Samsun Subproject                  52.0               25.9
TUGSAS Kutahya II Subproject              41.6               14.4
GUBRE Subproject                          32.9               24.5
Overall First Project                     48.9               22.0
Second Prolect
Akdeniz Gubre Subproject                  57.7              23.0
EGE Gubre Subproject                     49.7               16.8
KBI Subproject                            76.5              27.1
Overall Project                           61.1              24.2



- 39 -
S. PROJECT RESULTS (continued)
Table 13: STUDIES
Purpose               Status                  Impaact
i)  TUGSAS           To examine the          Study was              TUGSAS has
Management             management and         completed in 1984.    implemented the
Improvement Study.    organization                                   study
(Loan 1985-TU)        problems of TUGSAS                             recommendations to
and  recommend                                improve plant
measures for                                  operations and
improvement.                                  financial
management.
However, financial
management system
is still weak for
lack of adequate
trained accounting
and financial
professionals.
ii) Fertilizer
Marketing and          To examine and         Study was              This study had a
Pricing Study.         recommend measures    completed in 1983.    major impact on
(Loan 1985-TU)        to improve the                                 bringing about
efficiency of the                             reforms in the
fertilizer                                    fertilizer
transportation,                               marketing and
storage and                                   pricing systems.
distribution                                  The study findings
system, and the                               were followed up
fertilizer pricing                            by the Bank in the
system.                                       Agricultural
Sector Loan of
The Fertilizer Raw                                                   1984.
Material Resource
Study.                 To review              Completed in 1984.    The study is
(Loan 2131-TU)        fertilizer raw                                 serving as the
material base in                              basis for the
Turkey and                                    exploitation of
recommend future                              local fertilizer
course of action                              raw materials as
for fertilizer                                well as for
industry                                      development of the
development.                                  fertilizer
industry in
Turkey.



9. Fertilizer Production and Consumption (1986-91)
Table 14: TURKEY - Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving Project
Turkey: Fertilizer Production and Consumption, 1986-1991
(Est.)
1980     1981      1982      1983       1984      1985       1986       1987       1988       1989      1990       1991
lwN tau m efatte
Nitrogen (N)
Production           468.0    700.0    691.0       750.0      783.0     717.0      855.0      854.0    1,026A     1,025.9    1.025.9    1,120.1
Consumptonk          638.0    777.0    848.0       991.0      997.0     920.0      950.0    1,i42.0    1.081.6    1,149.4    1,218.5    1.286.8
- Surplu(Defic)       (170.0)    (77-0)   (157.0)    (241.0)    (214.0)    (203.0)   (95-0)    (288.0)     (5S.2)    (123.5)    (192.6)    (166.7)
Phosphate (P205)
Production           348.0    554.0    433.0       590.0      634.0     611.0      595.0      616.0      641.6      737.6     736.5      809.2
Consumption          423.0    496.0    570.0       618.0      580.0     479.0      520.0      585.0      490.2      545.8     602.4      657.9
Surplusl(Defickt)   (135.0)    58.0   (137.0)      (28.0)      54.0     132.0       75.0       31.0      151.4      191.8     134.1      151.3
Po"sh (K20)
Production              -         -      17.0       20.0       26.0      38.0       24.0       31.0       32.8       35.3       37.5      39.0        o
ContSmption           4S.0     38.0      33.0       25.0       31.0      33.0       49.0       51.0       41.8       43.8       49.5      S3.S
Surplusl(Dracit)     (4S.0)    (38.0)    (16.0)     (S.0)      (S.0)      5.0      (23.0)     (20.0)      (9.0)     (10.5)     (12.0)     (14.5)
Total
Production           816.0   1,254.0   1,141.0    1,360.0    1,443.0    1,413.0    1,317.0    1,503.0    1,528.5    1,793.7    1.740.8    1.900.0
Consumption        1,166.0   1,311.0   1,451.0    1,634.0    1,608.0    1,432.0    1,519.0    1,778.0    1,613.6    1,741.0    1.870.4    1,998.2
Surplusl(Deficit)   (350.0)    (57.0)   (310.0)    (274.0)    (165.0)    (19.0)    (202.0)    (275.0)    (85.1)      52.7    (129.6)      (98.2)
Annual Rade of hoans..: Avegm 1980-1990
Nitrogen (N-                                   Potash 3K201
Production            8.2%                     Production (1982-9        10.4%
Consumption           6.7%                     Consumption                1.0%
Phosphate (P205)                               Total
Producton             7.8%                     ProductIot                7.9%
Consumptfon           2.2%                     Consumptin                4.8%



- 41 -
10. INPORT DUTIS ON FERTILIZER
table 15: IMPORT DUTIES
Prodacts                       USS-/Ton
Ammonium Sulfate (20.6X N)       10
CAN (26%N)                        7
CAN (33X N)                      10
Urea A/                           5
TSP                              15
DAP                              20
20-20-0                          15
26-13-0                          15
15-15-15                         15
A/ As urea is used as an intermediate product for NPK fertilizer
production, the Government is keeping the import duty on urea
at a lower rate than for other fertilizers. However, the
Government pays directly to IGSAS, the only producer of urea in
Turkey, US$15/ton of urea produced as the world price is
comparatively more depressed for urea than for other fertilizers.



- 42 -
11. FERTILIZER PRICES AND SUBSIDY
Table 16: FERTILIZER PRICES AND SUBSIDY al
(US S equvaent)
Retail    Subsidy to
Pricelton b/    Farmer/ton c/    (1)+ (2)    (2y(3)
Type of FertilIzer          (1)           (2)                      %
Ammonium Sulfate               80.2           47.8      128.0     37.3%
CAN (26% N)                    96.9           58.0      154.9     37.4%
CAN (33% N)                   117.4           68.3      185.7     36.8%
Urea                          138.9           51.2      190.1     26.9%
TSP                           112.3          119.5      231.8     51.6%
DAP                           180.2          153.6      333.8     46.0%
20-20-0                 -    136.9           102.4      239.3     42.8%
26-13-0                        96.9          100.7      197.6     51.0%
15-15-15                      143.3   ---   105.8       249.1     42.5%
Potassium Sulfate             153.9          167.7      321.6     52.2%
aJ Prices at the end of 1990 convened at the exchange rate of 1 USS   TL 2,930.
b/ Retail price of TZDK (DONATIM).
eM Fixed by the Govemment. It cha 4ges every six months.



- 43 -
12.  COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tables 17-18 IGSAS
Tables 19-20 TUGSAS
Tables 21-22 GUBRE FABIKALARI
Tables 23-24 MKDENIZ GUBRE
Tables 25-26 EGE GUBRE
Tables 27-28 KBI



g vg  lX  U C.' 0!
< ~ ~   ~~~ E!    fTi |
* S          



- 45 -
Table 18: IGSAS: BALANCE SHEET (1986-90)
ACCOUNTS                1986        1987        1988        1989         199
ASSETS
Cura Asasm
Cash and Banks                  520.s     3,184.9    26,045.3    16,521.9      23,032.5
Receivables                   9,689.9    23,849.7    57,718.5    68,561.2      76,224.3
Inveaty                       3,784.1    10,838.5    24,776.7    26,812.5      49.174.6
Otht Current An6s .U                      1,036.1      2=         11.670.3     11.497.5
SUB-TOTAL                      14,031.1    38,909.2   110,824 .0   123.872.9    159,928.9
Fied Aasa
Criou Fixed As               59,466.7    76,624.4   130,172.8   222,850.5    341.647.2
Acumiloed Depreciaion       (45,446.2)   (58,145.8)   (90.932.7)  (153.632.9)   (243.860.8)
Not Fixed Asst              14,020.5    18,478.6    39,240.1    69.217.6      97,786.4
Othbr Fixd Aants                            855.1      3.374.S    16.6S4.3     16.343.3
SUB-TOTAL                      14.07S.3    19.333.7    42.614.6    85.871.9    114.129.7
UABILrIIES
Cure  Liab iits
Accounts Payable             13,648.2     7,962.4     9.556.4    13,630.3      24,989.6
Coun. Portion of L-T Debt     5,214.2     5,138.5      9,070.8     8,777.8     10,390.8
Other Cumret LIabillt9                    239.7  2.S069  X921.8   X590.5       33,L01?
SUB-TOTAL                      19,402.1    15,607.8    57,549.0    56,998.7      68,392.1
Long-term Debts                 9,450.8     8,705.1     12,386.5    14,212.6     11,935.2
EQUITY
Paid-a Capitl                   1.000.0    15,304.2    18,313.2    47,030.0      81,183.1
Reseves                         1,725.3     1,726.1     4,820.0    15,297.8      15,410.1
ProfwlLoa                     (14,385.5)    2,980.0    38,671.1    33,142.3      21,324.3
Reivauaion Increa              10,913.7    13,919.7    21,698.8    43,055.4      75,801.8
Other                                -           -            -         8.0          12.0
TOTAL EQUITY                      d746.51    33,930.0    83,503.1   138.533.5    193.731.3
BALANCE SHEET RATIOS
Curret Ratio                       0.72        2.49        1.93        2.17          2.34
DetlEquity Ratio
Lo og-ter  Debt                  109%         20%         13%          9%            6%
Equity                            -9%         80%         87%         91%           94%



- 46 -
Table 19: TUGSAS: INCOME STATEMENT (1986-90)
ACCOUNTS                1986         1987        19S8         1939         1990
stUbs of Lin
Net Sle                         96,026.6   151,541.7    192.635.1   410,672.2     402,667.4
Cot of Goods Sold               73206.6   12L2l7.0    1#.21S.0   321.530.9    346L317.3
' Pxwxoy *mW""--                                                                   
Marking Expeam                    461.2        742.4      1.043.2      1.U6.4       4,632.1
Adl_vAe Expeo                    4.202.5     81S13.6    13.156.0    27.S24-.2      59.513.7
SUB-TOTAL                         4,663.6     8,896.0     14,199.2    29,410.6      64.145.8
FP cil Chiqr                      9.039.7    26.565.4    60,314.8    88.5995        155,138.5
other EqXPs                       4,143.0      5,183.4    17,26.6    13,466.0      41,84S.1
~-.  ....                 . . .
Tan                              2.474.8     2.S0.          667.LL  
TUJRKEY - Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving Project
TUOSAS: FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, 1986-1990
ACCOUNTS                 3986        1937         1933        1939         1990
sUbs dUn
Net Proi/Lo                       1,049.6   (11,134.7)   (39,246.1)   (29,084.9)   (196,556.0)
-                                J3.227.9    27.026.      63.329.     I14.797.9     16.S07L4
SD-TOTL                         14,277.5     14.392.1    24,083.      85,713.1    t33.74.5
.~ . .33  .27 3.0'  .6ASV   .                            4 0.,.
NoC         =    :=n104.                      11147    (39t,246.) (2.849    (9,560



- 47 -
Table 20: TUGSAS: BALANCE SHEET (1986.90)
ACCOUNTS               1986        1957        19U8        1989         1990
miinaedL4wa
ASSETS
Curren Asset
Cash and Bob                  1,069.0     4,426.6     2,704.0     6,367.6     2S,443.7
Recivables                  13,963.9    34,SS0.4    28,700.S    90,729.7     63,SIS.7
InIVORMy                    29,569.2    37,008.1    73,964.3    81,641.8    179,422.8
Oter Curn Ass                2143.9       41.6    13.361.8    IS.S43.8        13.649.8
SUB-TOTAL                     46,746.0    80,182.7   118,730.6   194,282.8    282.032.0
Fihd Ase
oss Fixed AMts              170,989.8   266.8S9.1   482,276.1   766,683.9   1,151.096.0
Meumilazed DeprecIation    (56,578.5)   (83.905 4)  (147.234.9)  (262,032.9)   (424.840.3)
Net Fied Assets            114,111.3   182,983.7   335.041.1   504,651.0    726,2S5.7
Ote Fied Aset                 S.377.2  9.730.7        9.253.8    11.662.0     16.424.6
SUB-TOTAL                     I 19.488.S   142.714.4   344.294.9   516.313.1    742.680.3
TOTAkA8U1fl~~ Na.s.t :::;  S     S   :2~7                      :l,$S    :- 104,1
LIABILTIES
Cure  Liabities
Acwcous Payable              17,599.7    23,921.3    91,300A     80,426.2    183,226.7
Other Curret LIabilities     50.615.8   10.474.9   132.283.2   183.352.2    444.869.1
SUB-TOTAL                     68,215.5   132,396.2   223,583.7   263,778.4    62S,095.8
Long-tem Dd                   44.635.6     8,4484.9   150,380.2   204.012.1    234,161.7
EQUITY
Pawi-in CapitI                26,304.5    34,938.8    61,654.8   168,143.1     193,283.1
Resrves                        8,783.2    12,038.0    .3,682.4    14,483.1      18,988.1
ProftLosse                     (1.511.8)   (16.722.9)   (57,423.2)  (86.980.1)   (287,860.1)
Revluuion lcnrese              19,807.4    25,762.1    71,147.6   147,1S9.3    238,043.7
TOTAL EQUITY                    53.38S.3    S6.015.9    89.061.6   242.80S.4    162.454.S
BALANCE SHEET RATIOS
Curntm Rao                        0.69        0.61        0.53        0.74         0.4S
Deb/EqIty Ratio
Loang-tem Dekb                   46%         60%         63%         46%           59%
Equity                           54%         40%         37%         54%           41%



- 48 -
Table 21: GUBRE FABRIKALARI: INCOME STATEMENT
(US$ Million)
196  19    8988            1989     1990
Sales                       82.6     62.6     98.5    107.1    150.8
Cost of Sales               77.6     57.2     82.2     94.0    117.1
Gross Profit                 5.0      5.4     16.3     13.1      33.7
Period Expenses              0.7      3.4      4.4      5.1     17.2
Operatng Profit              4.3      2.0     11.9      8.0      16.5
Financial Expenses           3.1     14.6     20.0     14.1      8.8
Other Income (Expenses)      0.3    (1.5)      5.7      1.2    (3.7)
Profit Before Tax            1.5     14.1      2.4    (4.9)      4.0
Corporate Tax                 -        -         -                 -
Net Profit                   1.5   (14.1)    (2.4)    (4.9)      4.0
mu     mu                  -m



- 49 -
Table 22: GUBRE FABRIKALARI: BALANCE SHEET (1986-90)
ACCOUNTS                19S6         1987        198S         1989         1990
USSMMHeM mwsia
ASSETS
Cuant Ase
Ca and BanS                        0.7         0.2          0.4         0.2           0.6
Reaivables                        17.9        19.9        28.2         43.3          61.0
laWmy                             13.2        16.0         11.8       .10.1          15.5
Ode Curr  Amu                                                           . 1.6  a      1a9
SUB-TOTAL                          35.3         38.7        44.0         55.4          79.0
Fixnd Aels
Not Fixed ASets                   10.5         8.9         7.2          8.5          24.6
Otr Fixed Assts                               1911         1                          8.6
SUB-TOTAL                                       28.0        24.5         19.3          33.2
; "35 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~74.7                                             Ii; 2
LIABLITIES
Current Liabiie
Accounts Payable                  18.3        42.4         30.6        14.0          41.0
Oher Cumr   LiabUilies                        20.6         14. 3SO 13.2
SUB-TOTAL                          35.5         63.0        45.4         29.0          54.2
Log-tsm Debs                        8.0          8.4         17.4        13.0           7.4
EQUITY
She Capita                          6.4          4.8         10.8        40.1          46.1
Reseves                              3.6         2.7          1.5         1.1           1.1
ProftLoSs                            1.3       (12.4)       (8.8)       (10.6)         (2.1)
Revalution ncreas                   0.3          0.2         2.2          2.1           S.S
TOTAL EQUITY                         11.6        L47           U          DJi            0.7 
BALANCE SHEET RATIOS
Cumnt Ratio                        0.99         0.61         0.97        1.91          1.46
DebtEquity Ratio
LA1g-tem Debt                     41S         227%          751         28%           13%
Equiy                              59%       -127%          2S%         72s           87%



- 50 -
Table23: AKENDIZ GUBRE: INCOME STATEMENT (1989-91)
ec-
ACCOUNTS                      19S9          1990         1991
Rev_.
Net 8d                                    14,243.4   S 8,079.7    106.315.8
Cot of Good 3l                               9002.9       73.146.3     94.676.6
Msatt;S                                        380.8        702.9       1,861.7
AdaiSwiv. SapsJ 1.916.1                                    299          7.m
SUB-TOTAL                                     2.296.8       3,232.7      9.591.6
~~~W                         m.
Famma #ad COir Bhps                          49,M73.7      56.101.9     52,918.0
od   nc_m                                  61L9Q2.8     $0.810.4      S1.600.0
~~~  .7-       .~~~M-MlN~R
Tam"_ .



- 51 -
Table 24: AKENDIZ GUBRE: BALANCE SHEET (1989-91)
Fimg^
ACCOUNTS                   1989           1990           1991
ASSETS
CutrwM Ase
Cauh and flank                        1,360.7        2,703.2         231.5
Raecsivala                            5,174.4       28,267.6       6,443.9
Raw and Aux.  ateria Stocks          15,489.7       5463.5        14,375.3
Other Cunsnt Assm 9s404.7                           10.677.3       4.228.0
SUB-TOTAL                             31,429.5       47.111.6       25.278.7
Fixud Auss
GOsswFn d FAsew                     148.914.1      226.582.5     255,997.9
Aseumilded Deprecatn                (57,806.5)    (106.085.3)    (114.256.8)
Net Fined Aset                     91,107.6       120,497.2     141,741.1
Other Fixed Auses                     1615.5         1.761.2        1.941.9
SUB-TOTAL                             92.73.1        122.258.4     143.683.0
UA3HLrRES
Curent LIabilities
Accounts Payabe                      36,915.1       11,577.0       6,220.2
Bak Loan                             24,065.2       67,970.2      71,619.0
Other Curmt Liabiliies               14.466.4       11.046.3       12.468.1
SUB-TOTAL                              75,446.7      90,593.6       90,307.3
Long-team Deb"s                       20,583.2       20.334.6       22,356.5
EQUITY
Paw-in Citd                            32,180.0      56,090.0       56,090.0
Rbao s                                 . 3,454.3      3,454.3        3,454.3
ProFiLosses                            (7,511.6)     (1,102,S)      (3,246.S)
Rwaluwan Iner,""                             -              -
TOTAL EQUrTY                            28122,7       58.441.8       56.297.8
BALANCE SHEET RATIOS
Curt Rato                                 0.42           0.52           0.28
DeWEquiq Rab
Long-t    Debt                           42%            26%            28%
EqulWy                                   58%            74%            72%



- 52 -
Table 25: EGE GUBRE A.S.: INCOME STATEMENT (1986-91)
(In TL Million)
1986      1987      1988                    1990    1991 (esfl
GrossSales           25,074.2   63,181.1   70,119.2   113,839.0   124,096.0   194,887.0
Less Discount         (786.0)   (3,067.9)   (4.617.4)    (6,599.0)    (4,996.0)  0.0
Sales Revenue (Net)  24,288.2   60,113.2   65,501.8   107,240.0   119,100.0   194,887.0
Matorial Cost        17,797.3   47,656.8   47,733.3    76,573.0    80,013.0   142,672.0
Bagging Cost            584.0    1,475.0    1,760.6    2,416.0     3,004.0     7,046.0
Manufacturing Cost    2,372.5    2,524.3    5,712.5    11,154.0    13,576.0    22,772.0
Cost of Goods Sold   20,753.8   51,656.1   55,206.4    90,143.0    96,593.0   172,490.0
Gross Profit          3,534.4    8,457.1   10,295.4    17,097.0    22,507.0    22,397.0
Sales Expenditures      543.3    3,225.0    1,682.7    6,148.0     9,073.0    12,331.0
Admin. Expenses       1,174.6    1,713.4    1,301.8    4,047.0     7,154.0     8,188.0
Interest Expenses       211.4    1,935.4    5,941.4    12,757.0    12,878.0    9,512.0
Other Income            998.0     136.8      143.0     3,146.0     3,839.0     8,973.0
Profit Before Tax     2,603.1    1,720.1    1,512.5    (2.712.0)    (2,759.0)    1,341.0
Tax                   1,069.3     494.3      612.7       818.0          -           -
Net Profti(Loss)      1,553.8    1,225.8     899.8    (3,531.0)    (2,759.0)    1,341.0



- 53 -
Table 26: EGE GUBRE: BALANCE SHEET (1986-91)
Eat
ACCOUNTS               1986        1987        1988        1989         1990        1991
n,iWa af Lin-
ASSETS
Curren M
Cob and Rabks                 1,593.5     1,262.4    4,558.4      1,804.0      2,922.0     3,030.0
Receivables                  9,671.9    26,291.3    28,810.1   .38,186.0      35,506.0    46,215.0
Otbh  CurraAsftuM s           3.t67.6 6              1.          17.M.0       21.688.0    19.684.0
SUB-TOTAL                      14,433.0    35,773.9    43,S89.0    S7,765.0     60,116.0    68,929.0
Fixed Ausst
Gsm. Fixed Mass               8,891.0    17,564.6    29,1S7.4    50,060.0     79,215.0   112,181.0
Accmhliat DepecIaiSon       (4,927.7)   (8,819.S)  (16,786.8)   (32,56.0)    (SS,449.0)  (80.971.0)
Not Fixed Masts             3.963.3     8,745.2    12,370.6    17,484.0      23,766.0    31;210.0
Other Fixed AJJd                  _          1.0        15.8       329.0        525.0       420.0
SUB-TOTAL                      3.963.3      ,746.2    12,386.3.   17.813.0     24,291.0    31.630.0
_OA~S~S~    .;.                            4,%0t  _                m                        !W,$5_
UADILAIES
Curnt Liabiltis
La.. Payabl                  S,370.4    10,844.0     9,796.9      7,934.0      8,781.0    4,734.0
curene Portion of
Long-tarm debt                  30.0       746.7      1,323.0     2,292.0      8.666.0      790.0
Accounts Payable              1,892.1    16,812.9    22,644.4    27,915.0     16,977.0    24,S75.0
Other Cusrnt Liabilities       900.6      1.433.1    2,245.8      2.314.0      2.751.0    10.689.
SUB-TOTAL                      8,193.1    29,836.7    36.010.1    40,455.0      37.17S.0    40,788.0
Long-term Des                  1,812.2     2,929.S     2,324.5    11.486.0      4,968.0     7,758.0
EQUTrY
Shaer Capita                     800.0     2,4W0.0     7,200.0    12,000.0      36,000.0    36,000.0
Reserves                         359.6     2,796.6     2.872.0     3.028.0       3,028.0    3,028.0
Proftftluases                  2,033.8     1,720.1     1,512.5    (3.530.0)     (6,289.0)   (4.948.0)
Reouatlmn lncrane                   -           -           -     12,139.0       9,52'.0    17,933.0
Specal Poviaoss                5197.6      4.S37.2     s9s _7
TOTAL EQUITY                     8.39.1    11.73.    17.544.2   .23.7.0          42.264.0    52.013.0
BALANCE SHEET RATIOS
CurortRatio                       1.76        1.20        1.21        1.43          1.62       1.69
DebtiEquity Reto
Lceg-to mDebt                    18%         20%         12%         33%           11%        13%
Equity                           82%         80%         88%         67%          89%         87%



- 54 -
Table 27: KBI: FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (1986-90)
ACCOUNTS                19S6         1987        1933         19           1990
ialim dfam
Not Profk/L=s                   (13,209.9)   (20,481.7)   (19,649.3)    (2.26.7)    (75,031.1)
Depreciaziom                     10.92&6     16.348,7    48.132.9    99.29.1       122.740.0
SUB-TOTAL                       (2.287.3)    (4.133.0)    28.4S3.6    97.5S82.4    47.708.9
. 



- 55 -
Table 28: KBI: BALANCE SHEET (1986-90)
ACCOUNTS                 19S6         1987         1988         1989          1990
uiiLUo Lir
ASSETS
Currt .Ases
Cuh and Bank                     .1.027.7      1.020.5     22.976.7     52,548.6       2,916.0
ReeIvables                        9,588.2     21.843.0     16.159.5     22.015.7       5,978.2
Advco  Paid                        607.1       2,748.2      3,554.6      2,330.6        449.9
Stock                            11,330.5     14,789.9     18,651.5     58,957.6     114,197.0
ote                                36.2 IrS79.S            17.261.3      5.522.9      5052.1
SUB-TOTAL                         22.918.7     41.981.1     78,603.5    141.375.4      173,S93.3
Fixed Ase       ...            ....
Net Tangibl Fixed .Ansts.        52,156.S     84.445.3    140,091.8    208,975.6     335.962.8..
Net Intangible Fixed Assets        917.8        724.0        5731        2,813.7       2.327,0
Other Fixed Ases                  28t4.4       3.740.S     19.639.8     21.856.9      74.801.1
SUB-TOTAL                         SS.928.2     88.909.8    160.304.6    233.646.3      413.090.8
LIABILlTIES
Cuarrt Liabilitie
Lans Payable                     21,420.9     50.255.4     32,245.9     73,950.9      47,020.5
Curmt Portion of
Long-term debt                    1,249.6       S61.7          0.7          1.7           1.8
Accounts Payable                  6,S61.0     10,800.7      9,282.3     55,101.7      27644.2
Aoured Expens                     4.4S9.6      8,853.5     20,888.6      6,691.2      99.949.3
oter                              1.628.3      1.763.2     50,120.5      4.452.7      12.749.5
SUB-TOTAL                          35,319.S    72,234.5    112,538.1    140.198.2      187,365.3
Lonterm Ddbs                      22,658.8     36,582.2      61,406.2    52,498.4      IS1,408.0
EQUITY
Shae Capil                        30,000.0     43,000.0    100,000.0    200,000.0      261.000.0
Reseves                              191.0        191.0        191.0        191.0         191.0
Losses                            (20.920.7)    (41,402.5)    (61,051.8)    (58,80S.1)    (133,836.2)
Revalaio Incrase                  10.67S.1     18,913.9    23,600.2     37,268.7      114.476.1
Specl Prvsions                       923.8       1.371.9     2.224.5      3.670;.4      6.
TOTAL EQUITY                        20.869.1     22074.2      64.963.9    182.32S.0     247.910.t
~~~~ -~~~~~~~~~ -~~~~~~~~~    4'W#   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ------'--
BALANCE SHEET RATIOS
Cumat Ratio                           0.65         0.58         0.70         1.01          0.93
DetAEqWy Rad
Long-term Debt                       52%          62%          49%          22%           38%
EquIty                               48%          38%          51%          78%           62%



13. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Input
(Staff Weeks)
(a) Use of Bank Resources (for Loan 1985-TU)
Stage of
Proiect Cycle  .     Plane-d         Fal    Comment
Preappraisal                           63
Appraisal                -            108    Includes programs time.
From appraisal to
Board Approval                       23
Supervision              -             55
Total                           249
(b)  Use of Bank Resources (For Loan 2131-TU)
Stage of
Proiect Cycle        Planned         Final    Comments
Preappraisal             -             47
Appraisal                -             92    Includes programs time.
From appraisal to
Board Approval         -             21
Supervision              -42
Total                           202



- 57 -
OveralL
Stage ef          Month/  Number of   Staff Weeks   Spsctialietions  Perfotmaneo  Types of
Pro2ctU  Cvel     Year    Foramns       in Field        Roe   td           Ratir a        Erobleme
Auoraisal         12/80        3             2.3        Fin. AnaL./Econ.       N/A           N/A
Finranial Aal.
Chbmcal Enginseo
Superison
Tech. &
1             7/81        3            0.3                                 2     FInancial
Fin. /Anal /Econ.              Materials
2             4/62        3            0.6        Ch. Engin.c: (2)    2           & Tech.
3            10/82        1            0.9        Chm. Enineer             2      ManageriaL
Fin. Anal /Ecen                Hanagerial
4             5/84        3            0.9        Fin. Anal.               2      & Flnl.
Proj. Hgut.
5             3/85        1            1.5        Ch_. lagingtr            2      Dev. Impact
6             3/85        1            1.6        Fial. Ansl./Econ.    2
7            11/66        1            1.0                                 2
63           11/87        1            1.3                                 2
Fini.1 Ansl./Econ
9             5/80        2            1.3        Chm. Engineer            2
Leg. covenats
10             4/80        2            0.0                                 2      Compliance/FinLl.
11            11/s9        2            2.0                                 2
12            04/90        1            1.6        Finl. Anal./Econ         2
13            10/90        1            1.0                                 2
1 - Problem   free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate Problems; 3 -
Major Problems.



