LOAN NUMBER 1985 TU
Project Agreement
(Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GUBRE FABRIKALARI T.A.S.
Dated                i              1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1985 TU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  Ma     r if   , 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and GUBRE FABRIKALAR T.A.S. (hereinafter called GUBRE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred ten million
dollars ($110,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that GUBRE agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and GUBRE, $20,000,000 of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to GUBRE on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS GUBRE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. GUBRE shall carry out Part A.4 and B.1, as
applicable, of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
industrial practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Until completion of the Project, GUBRE shall
maintain a project implementation unit for Part A.4 of the
Project, with duly qualified and experienced staff in sufficient
numbers.
Section 2.03. In order to assist GUBRE in carrying out Part
A.4 and B.1, as applicable, of the Project, GUBRE shall employ
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment and selection shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) GUBRE undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by GUBRE to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to GUBRE
by the Borrower shall be used exclusively for the Project until
its completion.
Section 2.06. (a) GUBRE shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) GUBRE: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Part A.4 and Bl. as
applicable, of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such


﻿- 3 -
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part
A.4 of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by GUBRE of any contract for goods or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent
to it, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event in time to enable AZOT to fulfill its obligations under
Section 2.07 (d) of the AZOT Project Agreement, GUBRE shall
prepare and furnish to AZOT a report, of such scope and in such
detail as AZOT shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of Part A.4 of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
GUBRE and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(e) GUBRE shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of GUBRE and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. GUBRE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the GUBRE Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, GUBRE shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the GUBRE Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) GUBRE shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
A.4 and B.1, as applicable, of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the GUBRE Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and other matters relating to said Parts of the
Project.
(b) GUBRE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts A.4 and B.1, as applicable, of the Project, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of said Parts of the Project, or the
performance by GUBRE of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the GUBRE Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿Section 2.09. GUBRE shall take all action necessary to
ensure an adequate supply of water for the plant included in
Part A.4 of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GUBRE
Section 3.01. (a) GUBRE shall conduct its operations and
affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance with
sound engineering, industrial, administrative and financial
practices, with qualified management and assisted by qualified
and competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) GUBRE shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
(c) If GUBRE establishes or acquires any subsidiary, it
shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations
of GUBRE hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall
or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations were
binding upon such subsidiary.
(d) GUBRE shall operate and maintain all its plants, equip-
ment and properties, and from time to time make all necessary
repairs, renewals and replacements thereof in accordance with
sound engineering industrial and financial practices.
(e) GUBRE shall maintain its corporate existence and any
licenses and facilities required to enable it to carry out the
Part A.4 of the Project and to operate the facilities constructed
or improved under said Part of the Project and shall not dispose
of any of its assets without the Bank's consent, except in the
normal course of business.
(f) GUBRE shall maintain and operate its facilities included
in the Project in accordance with environmental and ecological
standards acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. GUBRE shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. GUBRE shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of GUBRE and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. As used in this Agreement with respect to
the financial obligations of GUBRE:
(a) "Current assets" means the sum of unrestricted cash
available for use in current operations, marketable securities
(excluding securities, whether marketable or not, acquired for
purposes of control, affiliation, or other continuing business
advantage), receivables collectible in the normal course of
business within one year, and inventories valued at the lower
of cost or market.
(b) "Current liabilities" means all obligations due on
demand or within one year or whose liquidation is reasonably
expected to require the use of existing resources classified
as current assets. Obligations shall include but not be limited
to customers' advances, accrued taxes on, or measured by income,
other accrued taxes and current maturities of long-term debt.
(c) "Capital additions" means the aggregate of all the
expenditures or costs incurred by GUBRE for the acquisition and
ownership of land, buildings, machinery, equipment, furniture,
fixtures and all other tangible fixed assets and investments in,
or loans to, other entities.
(d) "Net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
less operating and administrative expenses, including taxes,
surcharges and other levies, if any, but before provision for
depreciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(e) "Debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (principal payments and any mandatory sinking


﻿-6-
fund payments) on long-term debt and interest and other charges on
long-term debt and other debt payable during the period concerned.
(f) "Long-term debt" means any debt maturing more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred; and
(i) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
a loan contract or agreement (including the Loan
Agreement) on the date of such loan contract or
agreement; (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
been entered into but only, _xcept in the case of a
guarantee of debt of a subsidiary, to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding; and
(ii) whenever in connection with this Article it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of
the Borrower debt payable in any other currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
by GUBRE for the purposes of servicing such debt or
in the absence of such rate of exchange, another
rate acceptable to the Bank.
(h) "Equity" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital appropriately valued, surplus if it is represented by a
positive number and free reserves of GUBRE.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
GUBRE shall: (i) to conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio at such level that its aggregate debt shall
not be greater than 1.5 times its aggregate equity; and (ii) if
such ratio shall, for reasons beyond GUBRE'S control, be exceeded,
take all such reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable
promptly to bring such ratio within such limit.
(b) GUBRE shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of their outstanding debt which would
materially and adversely affect their ability to meet their
financial obligations.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:


﻿-7-
(a) GUBRE shall take such action as shall be necessary to
maintain the aggregate current assets of GUBRE at a level of at
least 1.3 times its aggregate current liabilities;
(b) GUBRE shall not prepay any long-term debt or make any
financial commitments to or in respect of any subsidiary if,
after giving effect to such action, the aggregate current assets
of GUBRE would be less than 1.2 times the aggregate current
liabilities of GUBRE;
(c) GUBRE shall not incur any long-term debt in any year
unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures
shows that its aggregate projected net revenues for each full
fiscal year during the term of the long-term debt to be incurred
or for the following ten years whichever is shorter shall be at
least 1.5 times the aggregate projected debt service requirement
in such year on all long-term debt of GUBRE. For purposes of this
paragraph, "a reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by
GUBRE in the fiscal year in which the debt in question is proposed
to be incurred and reviewed by the Bank which both GUBRE and
the Bank accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has
notified GUBRE of its acceptability, provided no event has
occurred since the Bank's acceptance of such forecast which
would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition
or future operating results of GUBRE.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, GUBRE
shall not, in any year prior to the completion of the Project,
make expenditures or commitments for expenditures for capital
additions of GUBRE exceeding $5.000,000 equivalent excepting
expenditures required to carry out the Project and those for
normal maintenance.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree GUBRE
shall: (i) not make payments or distributions in respect of its
capital except out of its accumulated adjusted net earings; and
(ii) in any event, not make such payments or distributions if,
after giving effect to such action, GURBE's current assets would
be less than 1.4 times its current liabilities.
Section 4.08. GUBRE shall periodically revalue its assets
for memorandum account on the basis of replacement cost and in
accordance with sound accounting principles consistently applied.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of GUBRE thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify GUBRE thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For GUBRE:
GUBRE FABRIKALARI T.A.S.
Kasap Sakak No. 10
Esentepe
Istanbul, Turkey
Cable address:                      Telex:
GUBRE                              26235 GFT TR
Istanbul
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of GUBRE, or by GUBRE on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the General Manager or such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing, and GUBRE shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
IDTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
GUBRE FABRIKALARI T.A.S.
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, GUBRE shall prepare and forward to the Bank
as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior
to the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. GUBRE shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent possible, contracts for goods and services
shall be grouped into single bids of not less than $100,000
equivalent.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Republic of Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Republic of Turkey if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of GUBRE and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Republic of Turkey
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be cupared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result
of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 12 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods and services estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent shall be procured through limited
international tendering on the basis of a list of goods satis-
factory to the Bank, provided, however, that (i) contracts shall
not be awarded unless the Bank has approved said list of goods,
and (ii) contracts of goods so procured shall not in the aggregate
exceed $1,000,000 of equivalent.
2.   Contracts for: (i) proprietary goods (equipment and spare
parts) for existing equipment may be procured on a negotiated
basis pursuant to a list of goods satisfactory to the Bank and
(ii) critical items (equipment and spare parts) may be procured
on the basis of a list of goods satisfactory to the Bank pursuant
to limited international tendering, provided, however, that
contracts under (i) and (ii) hereof shall: (1) not be awarded
unless the Bank has approved said list of goods, and (2) not, in
the aggregate, exceed $4,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. GUBRE shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion shall be furnished by GUBRE to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified of GUBRE's decision, and GUBRE
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and services esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more:


﻿- 13 -
(a) Before bids are invited, GUBRE shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, GUBRE
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform GUBRE and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, GUBRE shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform GUBRE and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme


﻿- 14 -
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 10% of the original price, GUBRE shall inform the Bank of the
proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and the
reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform GUBRE and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this J7I      day of        , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


