Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6200 
Operation Name 
PUBLIC FINANCE AND SOCIAL PROGRESS DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P122699 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
Ministry of Finance 
Boulevard de los Heroes No. 1231 
Edificio Los Cerezos 
San Salvador 
El Salvador 
Tel: (503) 2237-3051 
Fax: (503) 2237-6419 
rina.djarquin@mh.gob.sv 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
December 8, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 7, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 28, 2011 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
The impact of the global financial crisis on El Salvador made evident the need for addressing 
structural vulnerabilities on the fiscal sector in order for the Government to implement necessary social 
policy. 
Because of its strong links to the U.S. economy through exports and remittances; El Salvador was severely 
impacted by the global financial crisis. Despite the government efforts to restraint non-priority spending and to 
focus resources in a comprehensive anti-crisis plan, El Salvador experienced significant economic, social and 
fiscal deterioration in 2008-2009. As a result of this period of distress, El Salvador public debt increased from 
39.1 percent of GDP in 2007 to almost 50 percent of GDP in 2009, raising concerns about the overall fiscal 
sustainability. While the current Government sets social progress as a key priority, it recognizes that addressing 
fiscal vulnerabilities and ensuring sustainability are necessary steps for achieving long lasting social gains. For 
this reason the government has requested the Bank’s support for carrying on a program of reforms that will help 
to implement a sustainable medium term fiscal framework, while creating space for additional social investment. 
The government also requested support for continuing advancing the social agenda in parallel to the fiscal 
achievements. 
 
2. 
The proposed operation
 
will support the government efforts to mitigate the fiscal impact of the 
crisis while addressing longer-term development challenges
.
In fact, the proposed DPL series has been 
identified in the 2009 CPS as an instrument for continuing the support of the policy areas covered by the previous 
DPL. In particular, the CPS mentions the government interest in developing a lending operation that would 
support areas under the same three strategic objectives: (i) fiscal reform; (ii) public sector management; and (iii) 
improving social sector service delivery and protecting vulnerable populations. In line with the government 
request, this operation will support actions for strengthening public finance that will help to mitigate the fiscal 
impacts of the financial crisis and ensure sustainability while creating fiscal space for public investment. In 
addition, the operation will support a combination of social development actions that will help to address 
immediate needs of vulnerable segments of the population with actions intended to generate long last 
development impacts, such as improvement in health and education. 
 
Page  2
II. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
3. 
This document describes a Development Policy Loan (DPL) for US$100 million to the Republic of 
El Salvador. 
The operation is the first of two operations composing the Strengthening Public Finance for 
Development DPL series. It supports the Government’s program to address fiscal and public finance related 
issues, helping to create fiscal space for social investment in a sustainable fashion. In addition, the operation 
supports the Government’s program for maintaining and/or enhancing social gains achieved during the last 
decade. The Strengthening Public Finance for Development DPL series is in line with the program areas 
supported by the recent Public Finance and Social Sector and Sustained Social Gains for Economic Recover 
DPLs, and reflects the current government’s priority of achieving fiscally and economically sustainable social 
progress. As the previous operations this DPL also contributes to El Salvador’s strategy for improving the 
country’s debt profile by increasing the proportion of longer-term, lower-cost loans from multilateral 
development banks in the overall public debt.
 
4. 
The main objectives of the Strengthening Public finance for Development DPL series are to: (i) help El 
Salvador strengthen medium-term fiscal sustainability, while creating fiscal space for expanding social and 
growth promoting investment; and (ii) support further improvements in social protection, education and health. 
These objectives are closely related with two of eight development objectives proposed by the Government’s 
Program. The first is to  strengthen of public finance by substantially increasing tax revenue, improving efficiency 
and transparency in the allocation of public resources and the second is promoting social development by 
reducing poverty, and improving social service delivery among vulnerable and, in particular, women. 
 
III. Preliminary 
description 
 
5. 
The Strengthening Public Finance for Development DPL is designed as the first a single tranche 
operation of a two loan DPL series intended to support the Government Program to strengthening public 
finance and promote social development. 
As described in paragraph 36, the operation reflects the government 
request for continuity in the support of strategic areas previous addressed by Public Finance and Social Sector and 
Sustained Social Gains for Economic Recovery DPL. A series of two single tranche operations is an appropriate 
instrument for El Salvador context. While it provides incentives for carrying on the expected actions and triggers 
to the second operation, the series is flexible enough changes in the government strategy as long as this changes 
are still consistent to the agreed development objective.  
 
6. 
The Strengthening Public Finance for Development DPL is constructed around three pillars that 
are consistent with the two government development objectives mentioned above. 
These three pillars are: (i) 
Expanding tax revenues; (ii) Promoting efficiency and transparency of public spending; and (iii) Addressing 
development challenges in the social sector. While the government program in this areas is wide-ranging, this 
operation supports a reduced set of critical policy actions based on relevance, timing for implementation and in 
coordination with the donor’s activities. Policy actions were selected in consultation with the government. These 
are described in more detail in Box 1.  
Page  3
Box 1. DPL Prior Actions  
 
IV. Environment 
Aspects 
 
7. 
The specific actions supported under the proposed DPL are not likely to have significant positive or 
negative effects on the country’s environment, forests, and other natural resources. 
In particular, actions 
aimed at improving public expenditure management and fiscal transparency, or at expanding social protection and 
education are not likely to have a significant effect on the environment either directly or indirectly. In particular, 
the operation does not support or foresee fiscal actions that will significantly affect the amount of financing 
resources available to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MARN). 
 
8. 
Moreover, since the late 1990s El Salvador has made significant progress in establishing a solid 
legal and institutional infrastructure for environmental protection.
 
As
 
discussed in the FY06 Country 
Environmental Analysis, El Salvador has a sound 
–albeit still
 
incomplete– framework for developing effective 
environmental policies. This framework
 
comprises a general environmental law and complementary laws that 
address specific
 
environmental concerns, particularly in forestry, protected areas, and mining, including
 
associated regulations and technical standards. The Country Environmental Analysis provided
 
recommendations 
A. 
Expanding tax revenues 
 
·
The government has improved the efficiency of tax collection by (i) expanding its platform for electronic 
payments (PAGOES) to cover X modalities of taxes and contribution from Z different agencies. 
·
The government has strengthened the DGT tax recovery instruments by i) increasing the period for 
administrative claims of late tax payment from 10 to 100 days; and ii) giving the DGT the faculties for 
withholding of late tax payments from wages and from payments to government service providers.  
·
The government has also issued and is implementing regulation allowing the join auditing of suspected tax 
evaders by DGA and DGII. 
·
The government has strengthened its capacities to fight tax evasion by: (i) introducing new legislation that 
allows for the withholding of interest s and capital gains taxes for both firm and individuals; (ii) designing and 
implementing a new risk management system for the General Customs Direction (DGA) based on 
international best practice; and (iii) designing and implementing an improved systems for selection and control 
of auditing cases. 
B. 
Promoting efficiency and transparency in public spending 
 
·
The government has been promoting efficient public spending by: (i) implementing an ad-hoc mechanism to 
monitor and control the bank accounts balances of Y government agencies in order to optimize cash flow 
management; (ii) submitting to congress a comprehensive reform on the Public Procurement Law; and (iii) 
implementing a Public Investment monitoring system to accelerate timely implementation of public 
investment projects. 
·
The government has helped to improve transparency by creating a functioning Citizen Observatory of Public 
Works composed by representatives from the private sector and the National Chapter of Transparency 
International. 
·
A
new Transparency and Access to Public Information Law has been approved. 
C. 
Addressing development challenges in the social sectors 
 
·
The government is stepping up efforts to promote gender equality by: (i) developing a methodology for 
introducing the gender perspective in the Budget formulation process; and (ii) piloting the methodology in one 
governmental agency.  
·
The government has implemented a transfer system to elderly individuals in the 32 poorest municipalities.  
·
The government has developed an operational framework for implementing a single registry system for 
beneficiaries of all social protection programs. 
·
The ministry of education has improved the quality and effectiveness of primary education by: (i) piloting a 
full-school day period in 22 primary schools; and (ii) developing new guides for primary school teachers to 
improve the teaching and learning of sciences and math in primary. 
·
The government has increased t
he MSPAS’s budget by 10% in 2010 to help financing the implementation of 
integral and integrated model of health care and the MSPAS has sustained the coverage of over 650,000 users 
during the transition to the new system. 
Page  4
to improve the country’s environmental management capacities which are
 
being considered, and implemented as 
feasible. For example, the MARN has recently upgraded the environmental licensing standard and reduced the 
approval period, and is looking into the possibility of expanding the use of Strategic Environmental Analysis. In 
addition, supported by the latest EL Salvador CAT-DDO, the MARN is currently implementing a National 
Program for Risk Reduction. Measures included in the Plan are aimed at reducing environmental risks and 
vulnerability to natural disasters 
 
V. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
VI. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Barbara Cunha 
Title: Economist 
World Bank 
Latina American and Caribbean Region 
PREM, Economic Policy Sector 
1818 H Street NW, Mailstop I 4-405 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Tel: (202) 473-0572 
Email: bcunha@worldbank.org
 
