Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB6421 
Operation Name 
PUBLIC FINANCE AND SOCIAL PROGRESS DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Country 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Operation ID 
P122699 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Loan 
Borrower(s) 
Government of El Salvador 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
March 2, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
March 14, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 28, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the concept review, the decision was taken to proceed 
with the preparation of the operation
 
I. 
Country and Sector Background 
1. 
El Salvador was seriously hit by the ongoing global financial crisis. The crisis, and in 
particular the U.S. recession, has severely affected the Salvadoran economy. As a result of the 
sharp fall in proceeds from remittances, the collapse in consumption and investment, and 
reduced foreign demand, El Salvador GDP contracted by 3.5 percent in 2009. The slowdown hit 
all sectors, with manufacturing, construction, and retail being the most impacted. In addition to 
the effects of the crisis, agriculture output contracted due to a tropical storm late in that year.  
 
2. 
External shocks significantly impacted social outcomes. The gains in poverty reduction 
achieved during the last decade were partially reversed by the crisis. The poverty rate reached 40 
percent at the end of 2008 and remained relatively high at 37.8 percent in 2009, while extreme 
poverty increased to 12.4 percent and 12 percent in 2008 and 2009 respectively. The poor, and in 
particular the urban poor, were severely affected by the food crisis off 2008. Food prices 
remained stagnant in 2009 but so did the principal sources of income for the poor. For example, 
remittance flows dropped 7.1 percent in 2009, and the number of registered jobs fell almost 4 
percent (Figure 2.1), driven by a contraction in labor intensive activities such as 
maquilas
,
construction and commerce. 
 
3. 
The current administration has set poverty reduction and social progress as a key priority. 
In response to the crisis, the authorities prepared an Anti-crisis Plan for the period of 2009-2011. 
The Plan, amounting to US$587.5 million or 2.8 percent of the GDP, included actions to 
generate temporary jobs and increase the coverage of the social security system. It also proposed 
programs to build popular houses and basic infrastructure, improve nutrition, and address the 
violence problem. Despite gov
ernment’s efforts to restrain non priority spending
 and 
compensate for the plan
,
the fiscal situation has become increasingly tight. The economic 
slowdown contributed to a drop in tax revenues from 13.1 percent of GDP in 2008 to 12.4 
Page  2
percent in 2009. As a result, the overall fiscal deficit increased from 3.1 percent of GDP in 2008 
to 5.6 percent in 2009 while the debt-to-GDP ratio rose from 41.2 percent to 49.5.  
 
4. 
The crisis uncovered the risks associated with structural fiscal shortcomings. El Salvador 
is characterized by low levels of public spending and a relatively rigid budget, with little room 
for expenditure reassignments. In addition, a large part of social spending at the time of the crisis 
was committed to ill-targeted subsidies. The country is also characterized by low levels of tax 
revenues and a relatively narrow tax base, making revenues particularly sensitive to economic 
fluctuations. Combined, these factors limit El Salvador’s ability to accommodate external shocks 
without compromising productive investment and/or overall fiscal sustainability. The 
government recognizes the need to address these shortcomings in order to create fiscal space for 
need social spending without compromising fiscal sustainability.  
 
5. 
The proposed operation support the government program for creating fiscal space for 
need social investment and for protecting and including vulnerable segments of the population. 
 
II. Operation 
Objectives 
6. 
The objectives of the proposed DPL series are to: 
(i)  
Create fiscal space for needed social investment
 by supporting actions to increase 
tax revenues and to improve efficiency and transparency in the allocation of public 
resources. These actions are fully consistent with the CPS strategic objective of 
strengthening fundamentals for economic recovery by addressing macro and institutional 
vulnerabilities. 
In fact, the actions
 
cover a number of strategic areas supported by the 
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS; Report No. 50642 discussed by the Bank’s Board on 
November 24, 2009) such as expanding fiscal space, implementing results based budgeting, 
and enhancing access to information and fiscal transparency. This objective is closely 
linked with a key objective of the government’s development plan: 
to substantially 
increase tax revenues, increase the efficiency and transparency in the use of such resources 
and reduce the public debt.
 
(ii) 
Protect and include vulnerable segments of the population
 by allocating 
additional public resources towards social programs targeting vulnerable groups such as the 
elderly, women, and children in poor areas. The programs supported are expected to 
significantly improve standards of living among targeted groups. The actions supported by 
these operations are fully consistent with the CPS strategic objective of 
strengthening 
delivery of social services 
and closely link with another key development goal of the 
government’s plan: 
revert the rise in poverty rates observed in the last years and expand 
basic social services in rural and urban areas, specially to vulnerable segments of the 
population and, in particular women.  
 
III. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
7. 
Promoting social development and inclusion is the main objective of the Funes 
administration. However, the global crisis made evident the need for addressing structural fiscal 
vulnerabilities in order to implement sustainable social programs. Because of its strong links to 
Page  3
the U.S. economy, El Salvador has been severely impacted by the global financial crisis. Despite 
the government efforts to restrain non-priority spending and to focus resources in a 
comprehensive anti-crisis plan, the country experienced significant economic, social, and fiscal 
deterioration in 2008-
2009. As a result of this period of distress, El Salvador’s public debt 
increased from 39.1 percent of the GDP in 2007 to almost 50 percent in 2009. While the current 
administration has set social progress as a key priority, it recognizes that addressing fiscal 
vulnerabilities and ensuring sustainability are necessary steps for achieving long lasting social 
gains. For this reason the government has requested the Bank’s support for carrying out a 
program of reforms that will help to implement a sustainable medium term fiscal framework, 
while creating space for additional social investment. The government also requested support for 
continuing advancing the social agenda, and in particular the protection of vulnerable segments 
of the population, in parallel to its fiscal achievements.  
 
IV. 
Tentative financing  
Source:       
 
IBRD $100 
million 
 
V. Tranches 
First Tranche   
 
$100 million 
Etc. 
Total 
   $100 
million 
 
VI. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
8. 
The proposed Public Finance and Social Progress DPL is the first single tranche 
operation of a two loan DPL series intended to support the Government Program to create fiscal 
space for needed social investment and to increase the protection and social inclusion of 
vulnerable groups. The operation reflects the government request for continuity in the support of 
strategic areas previously addressed by the Public Finance and Social Sector and Sustained 
Social Gains for Economic Recovery Program DPLs. The operation is fully consistent with the 
CPS strategic principle and objectives. A series of two single tranche operations is an appropriate 
instrument in view of El Salvador’s economic context and political cycle. While it provides 
incentives for carrying on the expected actions and triggers to the second operation, the series is 
flexible enough to accommodate changes in the government strategy as long as these changes are 
still consistent with the agreed development objective.
 
9. 
 The proposed operation is designed to support the implementation of the government’s 
medium-term development plan as part of the Bank’s multi-year engagement with El Salvador. 
The primary development objective of this DPL series is to support the government’s efforts to 
implement a sustainable medium-term fiscal framework, while creating fiscal space for needed 
social investment and for the protection and social inclusion of vulnerable segments of the 
population. The government has been taking actions to increase tax revenues, improve efficiency 
and transparency in the allocation of public resources and to plan and invest in interventions that 
target the protection and social inclusion of vulnerable groups. The proposed operation supports 
selective and critical actions in these areas. By supporting fiscal sustainability and efficiency, 
Page  4
policy actions contribute to the macroeconomic stability and lay the foundation for El Salvador’s 
economic growth and poverty alleviation. In addition, actions to protect vulnerable groups will 
help to improve standards of living among the poorest segment of the population, further 
contributing to poverty alleviation.
 
10. 
The DPL series is constructed around two pillars covering four areas connected to key 
priorities in the government’s development plan. The first pillar, creating fiscal space for needed 
social investment comprises three main policy areas: (i) improving efficiency in tax collection 
and expanding the tax base; (ii) increasing tax revenues; (iii) promoting efficiency, transparency 
and accountability in the allocation of public resources. This first pillar is directly linked with the 
government’s five-year development plan objective of increasing taxes, increasing transparency 
and efficiency in the allocation of public resources and reducing public debt. The second pillar, 
investing in the protection and social inclusion of vulnerable groups, comprises on policy area: 
protecting vulnerable groups through social program target at woman, elderly individuals and 
children in poor regions. This policy area is linked with the government’s five-year development 
plan objective of reverting the rise in poverty and expanding basic social services to vulnerable 
segments of the population. While the government program in this pillar and areas is wide-
ranging, this operation supports a reduce set of critical policy actions chosen based on relevance, 
timing for implementation and on the coordination other donor’s activities.
 
VII. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
11. 
The program supported by the Public Finance DPL series is subject to three main risks, 
namely:  
(i)  Political Risk: This risk arises from the polarized political climate in El Salvador which 
could impinge on the approval of needed reforms and loans in Congress. This risk is 
being mitigated by the consultation process followed by authorities on policy reform. 
The government program has been discussed with key stakeholders such as the 
private sector and civil society.  
 
(ii) Macroeconomic Risk: This risk derives from the effects of global financial crisis and 
more specifically from the effects of a prolonged global deceleration or possibly a 
worsening of the global economy. The global crisis has had a significant impact on El 
Salvador’s economy and, in particular on the fiscal accounts and a prolonged 
recession or worsening of the global economy could threaten sustainability. This risk 
is mitigated by the design of the reform program and medium-term framework 
supported by this operation. A critical component of the effort to mitigate 
macroeconomic risks is related to authority’s efforts for fiscal restraint.  
 
(iii)Natural Disaster Risk: El Salvador is vulnerable to multiple natural disasters. The adverse 
effects of such events are mitigated by strengthening El Salvador disaster 
management systems and building a strong safety net intended to help the vulnerable 
segments of the population to better withstand this recurring shocks. In particular, the 
Bank is preparing a CAT-DDO operation that will provide financing resources in case 
of emergency. 
 
Page  5
VIII. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects  
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
12. 
The actions for strengthening public finance supported by the proposed operation are 
expected to have a positive overall distributional impact.  The latest PER indicates that the high 
debt has adversely impacted the poor by reducing fiscal space for priority social spending and 
investment programs. In addition, the effects of macroeconomic volatility, in particular those 
generated by the recent rise in commodity prices and the global financial crisis, have been 
disproportionately high among the poor. Since the expected outcomes from the public finance 
actions supported by this DPL series include a more stable and resilient macro environment, 
reduced debt burden, increased fiscal space for productive and poverty-alleviating expenditures, 
the broad distributional impacts are expected to be pro-poor. In addition, actions to increase 
transparency, monitoring and accountability of public spending are likely to increase citizens’ 
awareness about government actions and favor good public policies.  
 
13. 
Distributional and poverty reducing effects are expected to be positive for actions 
targeting the protection of vulnerable segments of the population. Gasparini et al. (2007)
1
shows 
that elderly individuals in El Salvador have less access to adequate housing and basic 
infrastructure and health services. Introducing a well targeted system of transfers to the elderly 
poor to improve the standards of living for this group, reducing overall poverty rates and 
inequality. The Poverty and Social Impact Assessment of the program suggests that more than 50 
percent of the program’s budget is directed to the lowest four deciles of the income distribution. 
It is also estimated that the share of the program’s budget decreases steadily per income decile 
reaching 3 percent in the 10
th
 (highest) decile. While it is harder to quantify the direct 
distributional impacts of actions to support gender balance in the allocation of public resources 
the team anticipates these are either positive or neutral depending on the social programs chosen 
for piloting. Finally, programs target at kids in poor areas, such as conditional cash transfers base 
on school enrollment and attendance and a full-day school system are expected to have poverty 
reducing effects, but the magnitude of the distributional effects will depend on fine-tuning the 
targeting of each program.  
 
Environment Aspects 
 
14. 
The specific actions supported under the proposed DPL are not likely to have significant 
positive or negative effects on the country’s environment, forests, and other natural resources. In 
particular, actions aimed at improving public expenditure management and fiscal transparency, 
or at expanding social protection and education are not likely to have a significant effect on the 
environment either directly or indirectly. The operation does not support or foresee fiscal actions 
that will significantly affect the amount of financing resources available to the Ministry of 
1
Gasparini, L., Alejo, J. , Haimmovich, F. and Tomarolli, L. (2007) “Poverty among the Elderly in Latin America 
and the Caribbean” - Background paper for the World Economic and Social Survey 2007
 
Page  6
Environment and Natural Resources (MARN). However, it is possible that an improvement in 
fiscal transparency contributes to citizens’ awareness of environmental policies. 
 
IX. Contact 
point 
World Bank                                               Borrower 
Contact: Bárbara Cunha
 
Ministry of Finance
 
Title: Economist
 
Title: Communication Specialist 
The World Bank
 
Boulevard de los Héroes No. 1231 
Latin America and Caribbean Region
 
Edificio Los Cerezos 
PREM, Economic Policy Sector
 
San Salvador
 
1818 H Street NW
 
El Salvador 
Room I 4-224, Mailstop I 4-405
 
Tel: (503) 2237-3051
 
Washington, D.C. 20433
 
Fax: 
Fax: (503) 2237-6419
 
Phone: (202) 453-0572
 
rina.djarquin@mh.gob.sv
 
Fax: (202) 522-2119
 
Email: 
bcunha@worldbank.org
X. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-4500 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
