                                                   CONFORMED COPY



                                                LOAN NUMBER 8048-SV




           Loan Agreement
(Public Finance and Social Progress Development Policy Loan)


                          between


           THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR


                            and


   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
             AND DEVELOPMENT




                    Dated July 27, 2011
                                    LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated July 27, 2011, entered into between the Republic of El Salvador (“Borrower?)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank?)
for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to
this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a)
the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:



ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.

                                    ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
        to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars (US$100,000,000), as
        such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
        accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan?).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
        accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
        (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
        sixty days after the Effective Date.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
        the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
        Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
        by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
        accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
        Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
        unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
        interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
        (e) of the General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
                terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
                the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
                withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
                interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
                Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
                versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
                based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
                applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
                and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
                accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion?, as defined in the
                General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
                Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with
        the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to
        consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal or exceed
        ten million Dollars (US$10,000,000) shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to
        a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the
        General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

2.09.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
        furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
        Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
        end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
                exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework and the
                progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
                its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
                Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have

                                               -2-
                the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
                taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
                1 to this Agreement.



ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
        has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
        be carried out.

                    ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
        Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
        and with the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02    Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline
        is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the
        eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on December 2,
        2012.

                    ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        Ministerio de Hacienda
        Boulevard de los Héroes 1231
        San Salvador, El Salvador

        Facsimile: (503) 2225-7491; (503) 2244-6419

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                   Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or           1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)




                                                -3-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.


                             REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR



                             By /s/ Francisco Altschul Fuentes
                                                     Authorized Representative



                             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                             By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo
                                                      Authorized Representative




                                           -4-
                                         SCHEDULE 1

                       Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

1.      The Borrower, through DGT, entered into separate agreements with: (i) MINSAL; (ii)
        MAG; and (iii) FSV, respectively on December 16, 21 and 23, 2009, whereby said
        ministries and agencies may use the P@GOES to collect electronic payments, in order to
        achieve an improved efficiency in tax collection.

2.      The Borrower, through Decree No. 233 dated December 16, 2009, published in its Diario
        Oficial, Tome 385, No. 239 of December 21, 2009, has strengthened DGT’s tax recovery
        instruments by: (i) extending the period for processing administrative claims of late tax
        payments from up to 10 days to up to 100 days (depending on certain conditions
        established in the reformed Article 270 of Código Tributario); and (ii) allowing DGT to
        withhold a certain percentage of the earnings of wage earners and the Borrower’s service
        providers which are in arrears on its tax payments (as established in the reformed Article
        273-A of Código Tributario).

3.      DGA, through (i) an official letter issued by the head of its Unidad de Gestión de Riesgos
        (Risk Management Unit), dated June 1, 2010 and (ii) the approval by its General Director
        of the technical procedure described in the document entitled “Operatividad de la Unidad
        de Gestión de Riesgos? (Operativity of the Risk Management Unit), dated October 19,
        2010; and DGII, through (i) the approval by an internal committee of the MH of the Acta
        de Recepción de Programas de Migración/Replicación en Ambiente de Producción
        (Reception Deed of the Programs of Migration/Replication in the Production
        Environment), dated September 16, 2009, and (ii) the adoption by the head of its Unidad
        de Selección de Casos (Case Selection Unit) of the Sistema de Selección y
        Administración de Casos (Case Selection Management System), dated August 18, 2010,
        have confirmed that said directorates have strengthened their respective capacity to fight
        tax evasion through the implementation of systems that will enable the same to select and
        thereafter manage the cases to be audited by the Borrower’s tax authorities.

4.      DGII, through an official letter issued by the head of its Sección Control de Omisos (Tax
        Omissions Control Section), dated March 31, 2011 and the adoption of technical manuals
        entitled, respectively, “Detección, Verificación y Control Declaraciones Extemporáneas?
        (Detection, Verification and Control of Late Declarations), dated July 29, 2010, and
        “Detección, Verificación de Control de Omisos y Diferencias? (Detection, Verification
        and Control of Tax Omissions and Differences), dated September 6, 2010, has confirmed
        that in 2010 it started the implementation of new internal processes to monitor and
        penalize non tax filers and stop tax filers.

5.      The Borrower: (a) through DGT, has adopted a system that enables it to carry out the
        daily financial monitoring and control of all Agencies’ bank accounts in the Borrower’s
        territory, as evidenced by authorization No. 001/2010 of DGT, dated June 23, 2010; and
        (b) as a result of the implementation of the above mentioned system, the Borrower has, as

                                               -5-
        of March 31, 2011, attained 100% daily financial monitoring and control coverage of the
        bank accounts mentioned in (a), as evidenced by the letters issued by the Departamento
        Control de Saldos Bancarios (Bank Accounts Control Department) of DGT, dated,
        respectively, April 1 and April 11, 2011.

6.      The Borrower, through MOPTVDU, CEPA, FISDL and CNR has entered into a
        cooperation agreement with CASALCO and FUNDE, dated August 31, 2009, which
        created the Citizen Observatory of Public Works (Observatorio Ciudadano de la Obra
        Pública), for the purpose of, inter alia, preventing corruption by increasing the
        transparency in public management and increasing the collaboration amongst citizens,
        entrepreneurs and the Borrower.

7.      The Borrower’s Assembly, through Decree No. 534 dated December 10, 2010, has
        approved the Ley de Acceso a la Información Pública (Law on Access to Public
        Information), which aims at improving transparency and access to public information.

8.      The Borrower’s Assembly, through Decree No. 645 dated March 7, 2011, has approved
        the Ley de Igualdad, Equidad y Erradicación de la Discriminación contra las Mujeres
        (Law on Equality, Equity and Eradication of Discrimination against Women), which aims
        at fighting discrimination against women and promoting gender equality.

9.      The Borrower’s Assembly, through Decree No. 520 dated November 25, 2010, has
        approved the Ley Especial Integral para una Vida Libre de Violencia para las Mujeres
        (Special Integral Law for a Life Free of Violence for Women), duly published in the
        Diario Oficial, Tome No. 390 of January 4, 2011, which aims at protecting women from
        violence.

10.     The Borrower, through the Comité Intersectorial del Sistema de Protección Social
        Universal (Social Protection System Intersectoral Committee), has implemented a cash
        transfer system for eligible individuals aged 70 years or older in the 32 poorest
        municipalities located within the Borrower’s territory, in accordance with the Guía
        Operativa Pensión Básica Universal Para la Persona Adulta Mayor (Universal Basic
        Pension for Elderly People Operative Guide), dated November 2009 (which guide was
        duly approved by the Borrower’s Comité Intersectorial del Sistema de Protección Social
        Universal on January 29, 2010), as evidenced by the certification issued by the
        Subsecretaría Técnica de la Presidencia de la República (Technical Subsecretariat of the
        Presidency of the Republic) on April 15, 2011.

Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
        provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
        notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
        end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
        withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
        is set out in the table below:



                                              -6-
                         Allocations                       Amount of the Loan Allocated
                                                              (expressed in Dollars)
      (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                                99,750,000
      (2) Front-end Fee                                               250,000
      TOTAL AMOUNT                                                100,000,000


C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

1.   No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
     satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the
     appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.   Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1.   all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account
     designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

2.   the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this
     account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management
     system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
     not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
     amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
     Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
     amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
     shall be cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.




                                           -7-
                                         SCHEDULE 2

                                    Amortization Schedule

1.     The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
       percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
       Date (“Installment Share?). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
       the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
       Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
       multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
       the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
       adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
       to which a Currency Conversion applies.


             Principal Payment Date                            Installment Share
                                                           (Expressed as a Percentage)
 On each February 15 and August15
        Beginning August 15, 2016
        through February 15, 2041                                       2%

2.     If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
       Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
       Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

       (a)      To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
                Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
                as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

       (b)      Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
                each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
                determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
                fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
                table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
                Installment Share?) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
                Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
                date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
                referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
                applies.

3.     (a)      Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
                Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
                amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
                outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
                withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
                with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

       (b)      Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
                time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued

                                               -8-
             on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
             paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
             such billing system.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
     Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
     Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
     Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
     the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
     to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
     the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
     relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
     Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
     provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
     Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.




                                             -9-
                                         APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.     "Agency" means an agency and/or entity totally or partially controlled and/or directly or
       indirectly owned by the Borrower.

2.     “CASALCO? means Cámara Salvadoreña de la Industria de la Construcción, the
       Salvadorian Chamber of Building Industry.

3.     “CEPA? means Comisión Ejecutiva Portuaria Autónoma, the Borrower’s Port Executive
       Autonomous Commission.

4.     “CNR? means Centro Nacional de Registro, the Borrower’s National Registry Center.

5.     “Código Tributario? means the Borrower’s Tax Code.

6.     “Diario Oficial? means the Borrower’s official gazette.

7.     “DGA? means Dirección General de Aduanas, the Borrower’s Customs Directorate.

8.     “DGII? means Dirección General de Impuestos Internos, the Borrower’s Internal
       Revenue Administration Directorate.

9.     “DGT? means, the Borrower’s Dirección General de Tesorería, the Borrower’s Treasury
       Directorate.

10.    “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
               United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
               or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
               designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

                         Group           Sub-group                Description of Item
                         112                                      Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                      Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                                  tobacco refuse
                         122                                      Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                  (whether or not containing
                                                                  tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                      Radioactive and associated
                                                                  materials

                                             -10-
                      667                                      Pearls, precious and
                                                               semiprecious stones,
                                                               unworked or worked
                      718             718.7                    Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                               thereof; fuel elements
                                                               (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                                               for nuclear reactors
                      728             728.43                   Tobacco processing
                                                               machinery
                      897             897.3                    Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                               platinum group metals (except
                                                               watches and watch cases) and
                                                               goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                                               wares (including set gems)
                      971                                      Gold, non-monetary
                                                               (excluding gold ores and
                                                               concentrates)

      (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
             consumption;

      (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
             prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
             the Borrower is a party;

      (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
             Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
             and

      (f)    with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
             coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
             recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
             having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
             such practices when they occur.

11.   “FISDL? means Fondo de Inversión Social para el Desarrollo Local, the Borrower’s
      Social Investment Fund for Local Development.

12.   “FSV? means Fondo Social para la Vivienda, the Borrower’s Social Fund for Housing.

13.   “FUNDE? means Fundación Nacional para el Desarrollo, the National Fundation for
      Development.

14.   “General Conditions? means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
      Development General Conditions for Loans?, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications
      set forth in Section II of this Appendix.




                                          -11-
15.     “MAG? means Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería, the Borrower’s Ministry of
        Agriculture and Stockbreeding.

16.     “MH? means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.

17.     “MINSAL? means Ministerio de Salud Pública, the Borrower’s Ministry of Public
        Health.

18.     “MOPTVDU? means Ministerio de Obras Públicas, Transporte, Vivienda y Desarrollo
        Urbano, the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Urban Housing and
        Development.

19.     “P@GOES? means the electronic payment system allowing to make electronic payments
        to public institutions, regulated by the Manual Técnico de Pago Electrónico de Entidad
        Colectora (Collecting Entity Technical Manual for Electronic Payment), dated June 9,
        2005.

20.     “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
        growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
        letter dated April 12, 2011 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s
        commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
        support of the Program during its execution.

21.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
        entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
        entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
        Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
        relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
        modified to read as follows:




                                              -12-
            “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …         (c)     The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
            bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
            two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s
            representatives to examine such records.?

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

            Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)      The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
            to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
            scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
            the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
            respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
            the purposes of the Loan.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
            Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
            Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is modified
            to read as follows (and all references to “Project? throughout these General
            Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?):

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
            which the Loan is made.?




                                           -13-
