Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11537-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 22, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =         Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$   1                      =        DA    22                      (November 92)
DA    1                     =         US$    0.045                 (November 92)
US$   1                      =        DA    22.2                    (November 91)
US$   1                      =        DA    17.8                    (May           91)
US$   1                      =        DA    15.9                    (January  91)
US$   1                      =        DA    10.9                    (November 90)
US$   1                      =        DA          8.4               (May           90)
FISCAL YEAR: January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR: September 15 - June 30
DEFINITIONS: Algeria is divided into 48 administrative Wilayate (Provinces)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAD      Banque Algerienne de D6veloppement (Algerian Development Bank)
BAC      Baccalaureat (secondary school diploma - university stream)
BEF      Brevet d'Enseignement Fondamental (basic education diploma)
CNF      Centre National de Formation des Cadres (National Staff Training Center)
CNP      Conseil National de Planification (National Planning Council)
COSP     Centre d'Orientation Scolaire Professionnel (School Orientation and Selection Center)
CAMEMD  Centre d'Approvisionnement et de Maintenance des Equipements et des Moyens Didactiques
(Center for Procurement and Maintenance of Equipment and Pedagogic Materials)
CRDDP    Centre Regional de Documentation et de Diffusion P6dagogique (Regional Center for
Documentation and Pedagogic Materials)
DOE      Department or structures responsible for Orientation and Evaluation
ENS      Ecole Normale Superieure (Teacher Training Institute for Secondary Schools)
ENSET    Ecole Normale Superieure d'Enseignement Technique (Teachers Training Institute for
Secondary Technical Teachers
IPN      Institut P6dagogique National (National Pedagogic Institute)
ITE      Institut de Technologie de l'Education (Teacher Training Institute for basic education)
MEF      Maitre de l'Enseignement Fondamental (Basic Education Teacher)
MEN      Ministere de l'Education Nationale (Ministry of National Education)
MU       Ministere aux Universites (Ministry of Universities)
ONPS     Office National de Publications Scolaires (National Schoolbook Publishing Agency)
PEF      Professeur de l'Enseignement Fondamental (Basic education teacher)
PES      Professeur de l'Enseignement Secondaire (Secondary education teacher)
PEST     Professeur de l'Enseignement Secondaire Technique (Secondary technical education teacher)
PMU      Project Management Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Basic  Data  Sheet   .i...         .      .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   . .
Loan  and Project  Summary   ...  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  ii
I.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT AND OVERVIEW OF THE SUB-SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Background   .1...         .      .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   . .
Socio-economic setting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Population  and unemployment  .1..  .                 .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   . .
Overview of the basic and secondary education sub-sector .  . . . .   2
General  policy  framework   ...  .                .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .     .  2
Reforms  and Changes  ...  .              .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .     .  3
Size,  structure  and efficiency   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             3
Infrastructures  ....  .                .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .    .  4
Teachers  and training  .....  .                .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .     .  4
In-service  teacher  training  ...  .                 .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .     .  5
Education management   ....  .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  5
Curriculum   ....  .              .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .     .  6
Schoolbooks  and  teacher documentation  . . . . . . . . . . . .                             6
Assessment,  orientation  and selection  and exams  . . . . . . .                            7
Pedagogic  research   ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  8
Pedagogic  materials  ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  8
Financing of education   .9...              .      .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .     .  9
MEN recurrent budget   .9...             .      .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .     .  9
Key issues in basic and secondary education . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Macro-economic  link  ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  9
Unsustainable  growth   ....  .                  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .     .    10
Decline  of quality  and efficiency  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Poor quality  of delivery   ........                       ..    ...     ..    ..         .  10
Poor assessment  capacity and  lack of relevant  pedagogic
research.. .................  11
Lack of adequate  provision and use  of pedagogic  inputs   . . .    11
Government  Strategy  and Bank Lending   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Government  strategy  ..............                                .....         .       .  11
Bank lending  strategy  ...........                           ....       ....             .  13
Experience  with past  lending   ......                    ..   ..    .       ..   ..      .  14
Lessons  learned  and future  lending   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
This report is base :on the findings of an appraisat mission which visited Algeria in November 1992,
composed of M4es./ossrsr. Jeep Oregaan (mission leader:and-Education SpeciaList,, M1Px);.Pascale
Hhrengt (OperationaL Assistant, Mk1PH); OLivier di N*essirea (Proiect.plementation Specialist,
MNIPH); Ange a Ransom- (CEVtustf1on and Assessmunt Special ist, ENTPH); aeorges ffenry (Consultant,,
EvaLuation an iAssesSm nt Spciatis) i.mnDe.ni Survye:y (Consultant, Pedagog.ic MateriaLs Speciatlist);
and Kenneth Cowan (Consuttant, Schoolbook Production Spci&:ist). Participation of Mr.. Henry was
sponsored by the SetLgin.Trust. furd, of Mr.. Servaye by the "Coopdration 8elge  in Tunisia and of Mr.
Cowan by the British Trust Fund. Peer reviewers.for the project. are  Huesaessrs.:.Mae Chu Chang
(Education Specialist, SASPIH) and Thomas Eiseomn (Education Speciatist, PHREE).  Mrs. Rostyn mees is
MN1PH Division Chief wd Mr.. Marinder S5.. Kobti is. 1s9: Department Director.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont.)
II.   THE   PROJECT  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  15
Background  ......................  .....  .   15
Project scope and objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Detailed Project Description  ......  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..   .   16
Environmental  Impact    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . .  22
Project   costs    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  22
Project  Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
Project Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Procurement .......................  ....  .   26
Disbursements, Accounting and Auditing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........  ....  ....  .....                     .   30
V.  AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Table IA:  Structure of the education and training system
Table 1B:  Organizational structure of the Ministry of Education
Table 2:   Education and training sector budgets 1985-89
Table 3:  Recurrent budget of the Ministry of Education 1985-89
Table 4:   Population projections for Algeria 1985-2000 (age group
6-24 years)
Table 5:  Pupil enrollments and teachers per school level
(1985/92)
Table 6:   Pupil enrollments and schools per wilaya (1991/92)
Table 7:   Growth rates for pupils, teachers and schools (1980/89
and 1985/89)
Table 8:   Structure of the IPN
Table 9:   Structure of the CAMEMD
Annex 2:   National Institutes in the Ministry of Education
Annex 3:   Overview of the Government's secondary education reform measures
Annex 4:   Management and organization of the COSP
Annex 5:   Project costs, procurement, financing and disbursement tables
Annex 6:   Project management and supervision structure
Annex 7:   Operational indicators for project implementation per component
Annex 8:   Project implementation schedule per component
Annex 9:   Summary of Technical cooperation and Training
Annex 10:  Project Output Indicators
Annex 11:  Terms-of-Reference for the Safety and Maintenance Study
Annex 12:  List of bids invitations to be launched prior to effectiveness
Annex 13:  Selected documents and data available in the project file
Map:       No. IBRD-24541



ALGEFWA
Bac and e Secndary Educion Support Project
Basc Data Shat
A.  COUNTRY °T
GOP (millons of current DA)                   359.000
GDP growth rate (891)                         0.3% per annum
GDP (mlUions of current US; 1991)            42.968
Per capia                                     US$ 205 al
Total population 1991 (mllos)                25.7
Population growth rae (80-91)                &0  per annum
Labor force growth rate (8-91)               37 % per annum
S.BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCA710N IN &TO=
Totl    of which    Gross     growth r.
cao       GIs%     Ratio      % p.a.
am sil    a                    1191509
Basic education total                              5,847         43          67     3.27
grades 1-6                               4,357          44         92     3.45
grades7-9                                 1,490        41          75     275
Secondary educ. total                               731          45          44     18
gral                        .              590          49          -     15.2
technical                                  141          30          -     385
Basic & secondary                                  6,578         44          78     4.6
of whkch
ba   tm-
New pupils enteing grado 1(1991/92)              761,830    357,329          47
New pupils entering grade 7(1991/92)             488,103    215,107          44
Number ol grade 1-6 tacher (1991/92)             154,685     62,317          40
Number of grade 7-9 teachers (1991/92)            88.610     37,839          44
Number of scondary teaches (1901AN9               44.622     14.721          33
Total numbe of basic and secondary teaches       285,917     114,877         40
Exampa rates           Candies  Of which        % g       CandidkAe   %passed    %
procnt      git        Of total   passed      (otal)    paed of
BEF                       435,268     188,035        43      126,391         29         36
Baccalauroat              319,377        na.        n.L      64,588          20        n.a.
Bac general               284,138        na.        n.a.     56,102          20        n.a.
Bac tchnicum               35,239        n.a.       n.L       8,486          24        n.a.
Number of grade 1-6 schools (t991/92)             13,461
Number of grade 7-9 schools (1991A/2               2.433
Number of scondary schools (1991/92)                 845
of which  'cee                             700
of which 'technlcusa                       145
C   EDt.CATIO  AND.TRAI  RECW31T EDITURES IN 1989 bJ
Hlghr education as % of GOP                                     1.22
Basc and secondary education as % of GOP                       4.99
Badc and secondary educatlon and training as% of GOP           5.41
Total recurrent ducation and training aqnditutres as % of GOP   663
Hlghr education as % of tota Cvt recurrent budget               6.1
Basc and seconday education u % of tota Gvt recurrent budget   24.9
Basic and secondary education and trWning as % of Gvt. rc. budge  27.9
Tota recurrent educatlon and traning as % of Gt. rec. budget   33.1
a calculad according to tho Banks Wold Atla mehodlogy
blh constant pdc   GMP deflator 1985-100



I



- ii -
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
BORROWER:          Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
BENEFICIARIES:    Selected national and regional basic and secondary education
institutes and schools under the supervision of the Ministry
of Education (MEN).
AMOUNT:            US$40 million
TERMS:             Repayable in 17 years, including a four year grace period, at
the standard variable interest rate repaid on an annuity
basis.
PROJECT
OBJECTIVES:        The project is designed to support quality and efficiency
improvements in the basic and secondary education sub-sector
with replicable innovation and change at wilaya level. The
project aims to (i) assist in introducing a pilot system for
assessing learning outcomes and quality in basic and secondary
education; (ii) strengthen the quality of pedagogic research
programs; and (iii) promote a more effective use of pedagogic
materials in schools. The project is only a first step in a
long process leading to quality and efficiency improvements
and would assist the Government in gaining a better
understanding of the underlying causes for quality and
efficiency decline.   Provision and better use of pedagogic
materials would directly promote more effective teaching and
learning in schools.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:       The  proposed  project  would  finance  staff  training  and
technical assistance, documentation, pedagogic materials and
technical equipment and would be completed in 8 years. The
project  would  (i)  assist  the  MEN  in  improving  its
institutional   capacity   in  assessing  pupils'   learning
achievements and in measuring quality and efficiency in
education by developing 6 groups of standard indicators based
on the OECD11 education indicators framework; initially six
wilaya-based COSPs would participate in field tests and
provide the vital link to schools and teachers; (ii) support
pedagogic research programs of the National Pedagogic
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, "Education at a glance: OECD indicators";
Center for Educational Research and Innovation (OECD 1992).



- iii -
Institute (IPN) through: (a) institutional strengthening of
the IPN; (b) pedagogic research on design, lay-out and
evaluation of curricula and schoolbook texts; (c) provision of
about  5,000  new  library  books,  research  journals  and
periodicals in pedagogic research areas relevant to IPN; (iii)
improve supply and use of pedagogic materials in schools
through: (a) provision of pedagogic materials to about 14,000
basic and secondary schools, of which 3,500 are under
construction; (b) improved provision and use of school science
laboratory products in about 3,500 grade 7-12 schools,
rehabilitation of CAMEMD storage and redistribution facilities
for such materials and the provision of related technical
equipment and staff training; and (c) provision of spare
parts, technical equipment, technical assistance, and staff
training, and rehabilitation of CAMEMD maintenance facilities
for improved maintenance services to schools.
BENEFITS:          The project could be expected to yield the following major
benefits: (a) improved quality and relevance of learning
content in basic and secondary education, thereby better
preparing pupils for their further education and training; (b)
improved quantitative and qualitative measurement of pupils'
learning performance through staff training, pedagogic
research and improved assessment of learning outcomes in the
pilot COSPs in six wilayate, affecting about 1.3 million
pupils in 2,400 basic and secondary schools; (c) a more
effective pedagogic information system, thereby enabling
education decisions makers to develop improved longer-term
reform strategies based on reliable quantitative and
qualitative assessment; (d) improved staff training programs,
thereby improving the performance of about 1,800 pedagogic
counsellors and inspectors and contributing to improved
pedagogic feedback up and down the system; and (e) improved
supply, management, maintenance and use of modern pedagogic
materials to about 14,000 basic and secondary schools,
contributing to better learning for about 5 million pupils and
improved teaching of about 200,000 teachers and to improved
competency in the use and maintenance of these materials for
about 100 higher technicians, 1,000 school lab technicians and
29,000 science teachers.
RISKS:             The project's main risk lies in the present turbulent economic
and political situation which could change commitment to
proj,ect objectives and make it difficult to bring about
institutional changes. To take this situation into account,
project design has been kept simple and its objectives focused
exclusively on the immediate basic and secondary education
needs. This has resulted in a high sense of project ownership
within executing institutions.   A second risk lies in the
capacity of education decision makers and teachers to



- iv -
implement necessary and innovative changes. The system has a
history of 30 years of centralized management and curriculum
planning.   Project implementation procedures and adequate
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms would take this into
account and would provide sufficient scope for timely
corrective  action.    A  list  of  project  implementation
indicators has been discussed and agreed upon with the
Government. A third risk lies in the absorptive capacity and
required continuity and quality of project management staff,
which have been identified as critical implementation factors
in  previous  Bank  projects.    Project  design  has  taken
absorptive capacity into account.   Adequate  training for
project management staff would be provided. Transparent
project management procedures would be in effect during
implementation.   Staff and other resources necessary for
effective project management and coordination have been
identified.
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN:
------ US$ MILLION ------
Local    Foreign    Total
1. Pilot national assessment system                    2.0        1.3       3.3
2. Pedagogic research                                 0.3         1.7       2.0
3. Improvement of supply and use of
pedagogic materials                               18.6        32.4      51.0
Total Baseline Costs                              20.9       35.4       56.3
Physical Contingencies                             0.1        1.9        2.0
Price Contingencies                                3.0        2.7        5.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               24.0       40.0       64.0
FINANCING PLAN:
Government                                            24.0        0.0      24.0
IBRD                                                            40.0       40.0
Total                                             24.0       40.0       64.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS: (US$ million)
(IBRD FY)        FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97   FY98   FY99   FYOO   FY01
Annual            2.5     4.0       5.5      8.5    7.5    6.5    4.5    1.0
Cumulative        2.5     6.5      12.0    20.5   28.0   34.5   39.0   40.0
RATE OF RETURN: not applicable



l



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT AND OVERVIEW OF THE SUB-SECTOR
Background
1.1.    Socio-economic setting.  Since 1987, the Government of Algeria is in the
process of introducing broad economic and social reforms, with Bank support,
aimed at promoting efficiency, raising productive capacity and tackling its
serious unemployment problem.   Increased importance is being given to market
signals, autonomy for public enterprises and an enhanced role for the private
sector.   The  governnment's economic  reform program includes,  inter alia,
(a) structural and financial reforms of the public sector, including the public
enterprises; (b) strengthening agricultural and industrial development through
decentralization and market liberalization and (c) improving competitiveness in
export markets. However, economic reform and adjustment often lead to social
difficulties for the population at large. Poverty and open unemployment are on
the rise, health conditions are worsening, the mismatch between educational
output and labor market demands is rapidly widening and existing workers are ill-
prepared to meet the challenges of new industrial and technology processes.
Consequently, a key element in the Government's social program is to improve the
quality of pre-university education in order to ensure future adequate supply of
well-trained and skilled workers.
1.2.    Although economic reform has removed some obstacles to efficient resource
allocation, many crucial elements have yet to be fully implemented. Progress has
been slow due to (i) lack of political consensus regarding economic policy; (ii)
increasing political turmoil; and (iii) the growing debt service burden which
presently exceeds 70% of export earnings. Economic reform was accompanied by a
more liberal political climate at the end of 1989.   However, as the global
recession deepened and economic recovery became more difficult, social conditions
continued to deteriorate.   A new Government,  installed in June 1992,  has
announced its new economic program in September 1992 and is committed to
continuing economic reform.   It has called for greater austerity and import
restraints  to reduce  the  country's  severe  external  indebtedness.    Recent
regulations have tightened control over access to foreign exchange and credit.
These developments may foreshadow a slowdown in macroeconomic adjustment at a
time when the education and training system faces serious quality and efficiency
problems.
1.3.    Population and unemployment.  Since independence, education and training
have been characterized by explosive expansion in the context of high demographic
growth (3.1% per annum over 1965-1985; 2.8% p.a. since).  The current population
(annex 1; table 4) numbers almost 26 million, with some three quarters under the
age of 30 and nearly 50% less than 15 years old. The labor force is growing at
about 4% per annum which is creating labor absorption problems and, combined with
capital-intensive industrialization and wage rigidities, has resulted in
extensive unemployment. This problem is compounded by high urban growth rates
and low educational attainment of the labor force.   The National Statistics
Institute (ONS) estimates that over 40% of those 15 years and older are
illiterate.    In this  situation  it is to be  expected  that education  and



- 2 -
(re)training will remain high priorities for the Government. If the Government
is to achieve its economic transition program it needs to direct investment in
the education sector towards improved quality.
1.4.   Unemployment in Algeria is most dramatically characterized by the roughly
700,000 youths who comprise two thirds of the total stock of the unemployed, and
who typically have minimal vocational training and formal education. In 1990 the
Government stated that the official total unemployment rate was around 20%.
However, surveys carried out by the ONS indicated that 63% of the 15-19 year olds
regarded themselves as unemployed, as did over 30% of the 20-24 age group. Most
of these individuals had been unemployed for 15-20 months or more.   In the
present economic situation Algeria's unemployment pressures are likely to get
worse before they get better and the widespread open youth unemployment is of
considerable concern to the Government.   The Bank supports the Government in
strengthening the quality of vocational training through the Bank-financed
vocational training project (2977-AL). The Bank has also recently completed a
study of the labor market in Algeria. However, further careful analysis of labor
market insertion mechanisms for school-leavers needs to be undertaken.
Overview of the basic and secondary education sub-sector.l
1.5.    General tolicy framework.  In 1965, the Minister of Education stated the
aims of Algerian education as: Arabization and Algerianization, democratization,
and the development of science and technology. These goals have been the pivot
for changes and development since.   Major reforms of primary and secondary
education were implemented between 1974 and 1991: (i) introduction of Arabic as
the language of instruction and Algerianization of the teacher force and
curricula; and (ii) structural changes resulting in 9 years of basic education
and 3 years of secondary education with two streams: general and technical.
Arabization was introduced slowly, first in the literary and social science
subjects, and then, during the early 1980s, in mathematics and physical sciences
and Algerianization of staff is practically complete. Results have been mixed:
on the one hand it provided the system with a clear cultural and social identity
and increased self reliance; on the other hand it created two opposing groups
(francophone and arabophone) among teachers and the system also became isolated
and turned inward.  One of the implications of the 1976 laws on educational
reforms was the cancellation of private education. These laws also stipulated
that "Education is free and compulsory for the duration of basic education within
the specified legal conditions" (Algerian children have the right to 10 years of
free State education; this is applied to the 6-16 year age group). As a result
it is the State that (i) guarantees equal opportunity for education; (ii)
organizes education; and (iii) makes it, along with vocational training,
available on an egalitarian basis.
1.6.    Reforms and Changes.      Over the past two decades the Government's
education reforms have aimed to promote equal opportunity and universal access.
The introduction of nine years of basic education followed by 3 years of
secondary education was completed in 1989.   However,  in practice the basic
1/    Based on World Bank sector study: "Improving quaLity and efficiency in basic and secondary
education in Algeria'; Report no.: 8912-AL, August 31, 1990.



-3-
education system (annex 1; table 1A) continues to operate with two separate
levels: primary level (grades 1-6) and upper primary or lower secondary level
(grades 7-9). Orientation, examination and selection structures remain weak and
have not reduced internal inefficiency.   To support industrialization and to
produce sufficient middle and higher level technicians, the Government promoted
secondary technical education in the so-called "technicums". However, initially
its graduates did not have access to higher education.  Due to pressure from
parents and teachers, technicum graduates gained access to higher education in
1986 and over 85% of these graduates do now opt for university courses. This has
created shortages of competent technicians in many professions.   To address
secondary education problems the Government started another secondary education
reform in 1992/93 (annex 3 provides an overview), aiming to reduce wastage and
to improve external efficiency: pupils will enter a common first year and then
be selected into one of two different streams (each stream offers 6 or 7
different subject packages or 'options').   One stream will give access to a
baccalaureat diploma (and thus to university), the other stream will lead to a
secondary pre-qualification diploma and thus to further vocational training or
the job market.
1.7.    Despite these reforms, quality and efficiency have declined throughout
the system.   Moreover,  during the 1980s the Government accelerated teacher
recruitment in order to (i) replace non-Algerian teachers (about 3% now against
25% in 1984) by nationals; (ii) keep up with growing enrollments; and (iii)
achieve lower pupil-teacher ratios.   Since 1985 overall basic and secondary
student enrollments have increased by 4.6% per year while annual teacher growth
rates averaged 8.3%.  Pupil-teacher ratios remain comparatively low: 24 in basic,
18 in secondary general and 27 in secondary technical education. This has led
to increased salary expenditures at the cost of reduced provision of non-salary
inputs (20% annually from 1985-89) such as pedagogic materials and support
services (maintenance). Moreover, lower pupil-teacher ratios did not improve
quality nor reduce wastage as the Government had hoped.  Although the underlying
causes have not been properly researched, it is widely believed among Algerian
educators that teachers need (i) a better supply and use of pedagogic resources;
(ii) improved access to relevant information and feed-back; (iii) better
training; and (iv) an improved performance incentive system.
1.8.    Size. structure and efficiency.  In 1991/92 about 4.4 million pupils of
the total 6.5 million pupils in basic and secondary education (annex 1; table 1A)
were enrolled in the first two cycles of basic education (grades 1-6). Over
760,000 of these pupils (with 46% girls) were new grade 1 entrants. The third
cycle of basic education (grades 7-9) had 1.5 million pupils enrolled, of which
468,000 pupils were new grade 7 entrants.   Gross enrollment ratios in 1991
reached 93% for grades 1-6 and 75% for grades 7-9, with girls representing 44%
of total grade 1-9 enrollment (annex 1; tables 5 and 7).  Basic education is
concluded by a national exam ("brevet de l'enseignement fondamental - BEF") at
the end of grade 9. A maximum of 50% of the best performing grade 9 completers
are each year selected into secondary education. Secondary enrollments (annex
1; tables 5 and 7) reached 743,000 students in 1989/90 (44% of the relevant age
group), of which about 22% in the technical stream.  Girls represented 44% of
total secondary enrollments. Over the past 5 years there has been an accelerated
development of the secondary technical stream ("technicums"), with an average
enrollment growth of more than 35% (annex 1; table 7). However, the system's



- 4 -
internal and external efficiency remains poor and the Government is not getting
value for its considerable investment. Repetition and dropout rates remain high
between cyclesl' and failure rates (around 70-80%) for BEF and baccalaureat
exams are among the highest in the Francophone world. It can be concluded that,
in spite of the hugh progress made since Independence, universal basic education,
not to mention secondary education, is far from being achieved.
1.9.    Infrastructures (annex 1; tables 6 and 7).  At the end of 1991, there
were almost 16,000 basic education schools, 700 secondary schools (lycees), 145
technicums and 51 teacher training institutes (ITE). The Government has also
created provincial (Wilaya) support services like School Orientation and
Selection Centers (COSPs), which give schools direct support through local
inspectors and other specialized staff (currently there are 44 COSPs).   The
Government's investment program over the next five years includes the annual
construction of about 500 new grade 1-6, 150 new grade 7-9 and 50 new secondary
schools to keep in pace with the expected pupil enrolment growth of 3.5%. In
addition, structural maintenance of school buildings, classrooms and pedagogic
equipment (replacement, spare parts and repairs) will also be improved. Smaller
maintenance jobs (cleaning, minor repairs, painting) are the responsibility of
communities (since 1990).
1.10.  Teachers and training.  The total number of basic and secondary teachers
(annex 1; table 5) reached almost 286,000 (of which over 40% female teachers) in
1991, of which about 240,000 in grade 1-9 schools. Basic education teachers are
trained in 51 ITEs2l, which had a combined yearly output over 1985-89 of about
5,000 grade 1-6 and 6,000 grade 7-9 teachers. This was sufficient to maintain
current pupil-teacher ratios. However, the MEN estimates that many teachers need
additional  in-service  training  to reinforce  their on-the-job  skills.   In
secondary education teachers numbered almost 45,000, of which 35% female
teachers. Annual secondary teacher growth (annex 1; table 7) averaged about 19%
between 1985 (17% for general and 37% for technical secondary), reflecting the
Government's quantitative expansion efforts.  ENS-ENSETs3/ are managed by the
universities, but have been unable to keep up with growing pupil enrollments.
Shortages have been made up by recruiting university students without prior
pedagogic training. MEN educators consider that teaching methods are still too
much based on rigid discipline, memorization and poor blackboard skills.
Creative and stimulating cognitive development requires a different approach to
teaching and a change of attitude in classroom management. The MEN is addressing
this problem by reviewing the curricula and the content of pre- and in-service
1/     Over 1985-89 annual repetition rates were estimated on average respectively 25% in grade 9; and
28% in grade 12. Dropout rates (% of registered pupils not completing until the end of the
school year) were 30% for grade 9; and 50% for grade 12. However, the definition of dropouts
needs to be clarified. Source: MEN, informations statistiques, 1989-90, Alger.
2/     Instituts de Technologie de l'Education UITEs) provide 1 and 2-year teacher training courses for
basic education teachers. Student-teachers are recruited at wilaya level on the basis of
projected pupil enrollments. Wilaya-based inspectors ensure the links between central curriculumi
development, pedagogic research and teachers.
3/     "Ecoles Normales Superieures (ENS)" and "ENS d'Enseignement Technique (ENSET)" offer 4-year
teacher training courses for secondary school teachers. In 1990, there were 6 ENS and 3 ENSET.



-5-
training programs and by offering improved training opportunities for both
teaching and non-teaching staff.
1.11.   In-service teacher training.   In-service  teacher training has been
limited to: (i) short presentations (1-3 days per year) by local inspectors at
the beginning of the school year; (ii) in-residence programs in the ITEs (1-4
weeks duration); and (iii) programs for inspectors, administrators and principals
of about 3 to 10 months in the CNF and CRFsl/.  In 1992 there were about 1,700
basic and 230 secondary education inspectors at wilaya level who, in principle,
are responsible for in-service training. In addition, there are 44 COSPs (annex
4 provides more detailed information on the COSPs) with over 800 pedagogic
counsellors for orientation and selection of pupils. To improve instructional
quality, the MEN is reviewing its in-service training programs and a critical
mass of trainers from central and local levels will be provided with relevant
skills training. The project will provide training for about 1,830 inspectors
and counsellors.
1.12.   Education management  (annex 1; tables 1A and 1B).   The Ministry of
National Education (MEN) is responsible for basic, secondary and higher education
and scientific research. Vocational training is under the responsibility of a
the Vocational Training Ministry (MFP). The Government's central planning agency
("Conseil National de Planification - CNP") coordinates investment, while the
Ministry of Economy coordinates recurrent expenditures. All teaching and non-
teaching education staff in basic and secondary education are civil servants and
paid through the MEN recurrent budget. The MEN is organized in directorates and
has a number of national institutes (annex 2) attached to it.  Its management is
still too much centralized in the areas of curriculum development, the
inspectorate and the provision of pedagogic support materials. However, school
construction, school management and maintenance and educational support services
are competently run at wilaya  level.   The MEN and its pedagogic support
institutes develop and monitor longer-term strategies for pedagogic quality,
efficiency and management. However, institutional capacity at both central and
wilaya level needs to be reinforced by increasing the number and quality of
higher level education managers. Staff in the MEN and its national education
institutes have been closed off from the international mainstream of educational
development for over two decades and this has inhibited the development of
innovative and effective reform in the sub-sector.
1.13.   Each wilaya has an Education Management Directorate (DVRH'I) which is
responsible for all education and training (this includes vocational training
centers). School construction, maintenance, training of teachers and staff and
school-monitoring by local inspectors has all been delegated by the MEN to the
wilaya authorities. Among the MEN's national pedagogic support institutes (annex
2) are the National Pedagogic Institute (IPN), the National Center for Staff
Training (CNF), the Center for Procurement and Maintenance of Equipment and
Pedagogical materials (CAMEMD), the National Schoolbook Publishing Agency (ONPS),
The "Centre National de Formation des Cadres (CNF)" has 3 regional centers (CNRs).
"DVRH": Division de Vatorisation des Ressources Humaines manages education and vocational
training at wilaya level. It consists of pedagogic and administrative divisions (Local
inspectors, school mapping, construction and maintenance).



- 6 -
and the National Distance Education Center (CNEG).  The CNEG has over 64,000
pupils enrolled in correspondence courses, of which 44,000 studying for a
baccalaureat diploma. CAMEMD has 8 local centers to keep and maintain supplies
of pedagogic materials and technical equipment. ONPS manufactures and distributes
over 32 million schoolbooks per year.   These institutions provide strategic
support, develop curricula and staff training programs, supply pedagogic
materials and aim to monitor educational performance at local and national level.
They also maintain links with the schools through wilaya-based services (for
example the COSPs, ITEs and regional centers) which include over 2,700 staff
(about 1,800 school inspectors, 800 pedagogic and orientation counsellors and
other specialized staff). The MEN is currently undertaking a study of the
different wilaya support structures in order to improve their pedagogic support
and cost-efficiency.
1.14.   Curriculum.    The curriculum  for basic  and secondary education  is
prescribed by the Ministry of National Education.   All curricula are highly
descriptive, with detailed syllabi developed by the IPN and other MEN
Directorates and correspond directly to the prescribed textbook content.
Curricula are overloaded and contain insufficient information for teachers on
when and how to teach specific subject matter or what background materials to
use.   For some subjects taught in grades 9 to 12 textbooks are still under
development or need to be revised. The first two 3-year cycles (grades 1-6) in
basic education, for children between 6 and 11 years old, offer a general program
in numeracy and literacy skills, mastering oral and written Arabic language, in
basic communication and social skills, mastering one foreign language (mainly
French), and general political, geographical and cultural knowledge. The final
3-year cycle of basic education (grades 7-9) is called the "cycle d'orientation"
and offers about ten different subjects taught by specialized teachers. Grade 7-9
also aims to initiate students in technology subjects and to prepare them for
secondary education and vocational training. Since 1990 the MEN has launched a
major curriculum revision effort which is carried out by specialists of the IPN
(para. 1.10).
1.15.   Schoolbooks and teacher documentation.   Schoolbooks are one the most
cost-effective pedagogic inputs which improve learning achievement.  Algerian
schoolbooks, prescribed by the MEN, are produced by ONPS (annex 2). Until 1991,
ONPS and IPN were one institute, but now they operate separately. Although the
bulk of the 32 million schoolbooks annually provided by the MEN are produced and
distributed by ONPS, about 35% is produced through subcontracting outside the
MEN. Country-wide the core of textbooks provided by the ONPS serves as the major
educational guide on the prescribed curriculum and provides the raw material on
which the entire examination system is based.   Many observers believe that
textbook contents  need  to be  revised  in pedagogic  content  and approach.
Comprehensive summaries, tests and exercise material need to be improved and
better adapted to pupils' needs.   Although the MEN supplies some 200 titles
through ONPS, schoolbooks for some secondary subjects are still not available.
Many of the books produced by IPN-ONPS were not sufficiently pilot-tested and
their evaluation remains ad hoc and informal. Teacher guides and background
documentation, necessary for effective teaching and keeping up with recent
professional developments, are generally in short supply as well.



-7-
1.16.   Assessment, orientation and selection and exams.  Assessment in grades
1-9 consists entirely of performance-based continuous assessment done informally
by class teachers. Basic education school leavers are oriented into post-basic
education on the basis of both the BEF exam (para. 1.8) and school results over
grades 7-9. Orientation and selection are coordinated by the COSPs. The BEF
exam is essentially a norm-referenced selection mechanism and as such does not
formally certify completion of basic education. Currently only 30% of grade 9
completers pass the BEF exam and a maximum of 50% among the highest performing
grade 9 completers are selected, in a local "pool" of pupils, to enter secondary
general or technical education.   The rest of the basic school leavers are
channeled into vocational training courses or must try to find a job.
Orientation and selection require participation of teachers, pedagogic
counsellors, inspectors and other specialized staff under responsibility of the
local COSP (annex 4). It is a complicated process where teachers and educators
make decisions about children's future based on their school performance over the
last three school years.   Staff involved in this process need additional and
updated training in test development and exam evaluation techniques in order to
make the process more reliable and improve exam results.
1.17.   The best performing pupils in maths, physical sciences and technology in
grades 7-9 are oriented towards secondary technical education (technicums).  The
secondary general stream offers options in languages, social and physical
sciences, mathematics, economy and some specialized subjects like agricultural
science, building and construction, industrial chemistry and hydraulics.
Baccalaur6at exam pass rates (and the BEF) have declined over the past five
years. Only one in five 'Bac' candidates received a diploma in 1990. Secondary
education is used as a selection mechanism for higher (university) education.
The high repeater and dropout rates and the low number of graduates must be
considered a costly solution for the problem of university entry regulation, and
have produced massive numbers of secondary school leavers without any formal
secondary diploma. The ongoing secondary education reform (para. 1.6 and annex
3), which started in 1992/93, will not solve this problem entirely, however, it
will give greater numbers of pupils a secondary school completion diploma.
1.18.   Pedagogic research.  IPN (annex 1; table 8 and annex 2) is responsible
for pedagogic research, monitoring and evaluating pedagogic quality (including
the impact of reforms), curriculum development and providing support to other
sub-sector institutes.   During the eighties the IPN has prepared and guided
educational reform (Algerianization, introduction of Arabic, installation of
9 years of basic education). The IPN has prepared and guided all curriculum
reform, pedagogic research, and developed and produced all instructional
materials (including schoolbooks when ONPS was still part of IPN) during the
eighties. However, teacher guides and supporting documentation for some grade
7-12  subjects  are  still  under  development.    In  addition,  schools  are
insufficiently supplied with background pedagogic materials for teachers and many
of these supplementary materials still need to be developed. IPN will continue
to be responsible for textbook publishing (developing texts and field testing)
of all core schoolbooks and background materials. This activity will be closely
linked to its curriculum development responsibilities and would be coordinated
with the National Staff Training Center (CNF).   The CNF is responsible for
training of inspectors, school principals and other administrative staff. It also
develops and organizes in-service staff and teacher training courses and supports



-8-
local inspectorates in their school supervision through its 3 regional antennas
(CRF).  The IPN and CNF face a difficult task in the years ahead.  They must
necessarily be the driving force for innovation of pedagogic research, delivery
methods and management and administrative reforms.
1.19.   Pedagogic materials.   Pedagogic materials  (tools for arithmetic and
mathematics education; science demonstration equipment; teacher documentation)
are fundamental pedagogic inputs (paras. 1.15 and 1.18) which help teachers to
teach more effectively. Adequate supply and effective use of pedagogic materials
in schools is paramount to better quality and improved internal and external
efficiency of the system, thereby contributing to reduced wastage and a better
learning environment for both children and teachers. A 1990 evaluative study,
carried out by CAMEMD (annex 2), has concluded that most grade 1-6 schools lack
essential pedagogic tools allowing teachers to demonstrate basic cognitive
concepts.   In addition,  it showed that there is a need to provide modern
pedagogic support materials to newly constructed upper-basic and secondary
schools. Pedagogic materials which are available in upper-basic and secondary
schools is often in need of repair and/or maintenance and disparities between
urban and rural and suburban schools remain.   Grade 1-6 schools lack simple
demonstration materials for arithmetic, simple mathematics, reading and writing
or these materials are at the end of their life cycle. Upper-basic and secondary
schools are in need of supplementary teacher supplies in almost all disciplines,
but notably for sciences (biology, natural sciences, chemistry and physics).
There are also wide variations in the schools' size and quality of storage
conditions for (scientific) equipment, reading facilities (library books and
their storage) and staffing (laboratory technicians and librarians). To safeguard
a sustainable provi-sion and use of these materials to schools the MEN has started
to reinforce its CAMEMD agency in order to improve provision, use, maintenance
and repair of pedagogic materials. CAMEMD (annex 1; table 9 and annex 2) was
created in 1986 and is responsible for provision of pedagogic materials (except
textbooks)  to basic and secondary schools.    It procures,  distributes  and
maintains these materials and trains lab technicians.  CAMEMD maintains links
with the wilayate through its eight regional antennas. CAMEMD is improving its
maintenance and training services by reinforcing its institutional capacity
through improved training of trainers and rehabilitated physical facilities. A
maintenance and safety study linked to handling, distribution and use of
pedagogic materials will be completed by the end of 1994.
1.20.   Financing of education.  The high priority of education and training has
resulted in generous budget allocations over the past decade. In 1989 combined
sector investment and recurrent expenditures represented 27% of government
expenditures or about 8% of GNP.   The 1989 recurrent sector expenditures
accounted for 33% and investment for 14% of their respective government budgets.
These do not include expenditures by training institutes under direct
responsibility of other technical ministries.   Recurrent sector expenditures
(annex 1; table 2) grew on average by 6.5% p.a. over 1985-89 (GDP growth over
that period was about 1% and is even lower since), mainly due to increased salary
expenditures.   Consequently,  if Algeria's education and training costs are
compared to international standards, it must be concluded that the system is
expensive for the product it delivers.



1.21.   The 1990 MEN recurrent budget (annex 1; table 3) for basic and secondary
education (including teacher training for basic education in ITEs, but excluding
the ENS/ENSET) accounts for over 80% of total sector recurrent expenditures and
grew by almost 7% per annum in real terms between 1985-89.   Accelerated
recruitment of staff, due to (a) pupil enrollment growth and the introduction of
the new basic education system, (b) the expansion of secondary education, and (c)
the replacement of expatriate teachers by national, increased the share of
teacher salaries in the MEN's recurrent budget from 79% in 1985 to 87% in 1990.
This represents an annual real growth of over 10% per year. Consequently, the
share of non-salary expenditures decreased significantly: for pedagogic materials
by 20% and for maintenance by about 30% per year in real terms. No substantial
cost-recovery mechanisms are currently in place for basic and secondary
education.   However  there  is evidence  that parents  and local communities
contribute to the costs of education by paying for maintenance in grade 1-6
schools and for private tuition in order to increase their children's chance to
succeed at critical points of the system (examinations at the end of grade 9 and
12).
Key issues in basic and secondary education
1.22.   Macro-economic  link.    On the macro-economic  side,  fiscal problems
constrain the Government's ability to continue to spend more on education, while
there is a growing national problem of youth under- and unemployment. The need
to upgrade the skills of the active labor force to meet modern economic and
technical standards puts additional pressure on the education and training
system. Poor quality of education not only results in lower social and economic
skill levels among the majority of pupils who leave school at basic and secondary
levels, but also has a detrimental effect on the performance of those who
graduate and go on to higher levels of education. Many of the underlying causes
for quality and efficiency deterioration have not been well researched at school
and wilaya level.
1.23.   Unsustainable growth.  The fundamental strategic issue facing basic and
secondary education in Algeria is the trade-off between quantity and quality.
The explosive growth of the past quarter-century has been driven by a desire to
attain numerical self-sufficiency in technical and managerial areas as rapidly
as possible, within a centrally planned labor market which placed a high premium
on formal educational attainment. Fully subsidized education programs with a
high and guaranteed payoff on completion ensured massive pressure for available
places.     In  the  1970s  and  80s,  quality,  innovation,  flexibility  and
responsiveness to national and international technological developments and
market signals carried much less weight than arguments for growth. However, even
the impressive quantitative expansion efforts have not been able to realize the
Government's aim of universal basic education coverage. In addition, the system
suffers from rigid and outdated management practices, considerable internal and
external inefficiencies, and there remain significant regional, rural-urban and
gender imbalances.
1.24.   Decline of guality and efficiency. Although Algerian educators generally
agree that quality and efficiency have significantly declined over the past
decade, many of the underlying causes are not well understood and much less
agreed upon. The Government's reform measures, aiming to maintain the momentum



- 10 -
of quantitative expansion and, at the same time, improve the system's qualitative
performance, have not been able to achieve the latter. However, the success of
improved access is beyond doubt.   The decline of the system's quality and
efficiency is illustrated by the relatively high repetition and dropout rates
within and between cycles and failure rates at BEF and baccalaur6at exams. Among
the underlying causes for this wastage are (i) poor quality of delivery; (ii)
poor assessment capacity and lack of relevant pedagogic research; and (iii) lack
of adequate provision and use pedagogic inputs. There is also a need to improve
the information feed-back up and down the system. One of the first prerequisites
for slowing or even reversing this trend of decline is a better understanding of
these causes. However, the lack of effective quality measurement tools prevents
the Government from developing effective longer-term reform strategies.
1.25.   Poor quality of delivery. (paras. 1.14 - 1.19).  The teacher force has
expanded significantly over the last decade and, as a result, the Government
expected an automatic improvement in learning achievement. However, teaching
methods remain too much based on memorization, blackboard copying and rigid
discipline. Many teachers are young and have only limited practical experience;
their training is too theoretical and does not prepare them well for the
classroom realities. Teachers face overloaded curricula, lack of instructional
materials and worsening working conditions in terms of salaries and career
development. Poor teacher performance and a deteriorating learning environment
causes many pupils to repeat or dropout and leaves their parents disappointed in
what the system offers to their children.   In addition, there is widespread
agreement among Algerian educators that what pupils learn responds less and less
to the rapidly changing needs of the society. To improve teacher and staff
training, the MEN is undertaking a rigorous revision of training program
contents.   Project financing of improved assessment and relevant pedagogic
research indirectly underpins the latter efforts.
1.26.   Poor assessment capacity and lack of relevant pedagogic research.  The
Government lacks sufficient capacity to measure what is learnt by school children
at all levels of the system and how effectively this is done (paras. 1.7, 1.12
and 1.16).   The current testing and exam system, by which orientation and
selection of pupils into higher levels of education are regulated, does not
provide adequate information necessary to develop longer term strategies for
quality and efficiency improvement. Moreover, there has been little relevant
pedagogic research related to and evaluation of the impact of past reform
measures.   Curricula date from the early 1980s and have only changed ad hoc
since. They are intricately linked to design, lay-out and presentation of the
prescribed schoolbook texts,   The  lack of proper professional background
documentation, international contacts and an effective information feedback
system between the national and local levels is hampering innovative reforms.
1.27.   Lack of adequate provision and use of pedagogic inputs.  There is an
immediate need to improve the supply and use of effective pedagogic inputs for
teachers (para. 1.19).   This would help pupils to better understand what is
taught. Most schools lack adequate pedagogic (teaching) support materials in
their classrooms. These materials include equipment and pedagogic documentation.
Grade 1-9 schools are particularly badly hit, because the introduction of the new
basic education system required new pedagogic inputs which the system in many
cases failed to deliver.   As a result pedagogic support materials  (simple



- 11 -
demonstration equipment) and instructional documentation (related to reading,
writing and arithmetic, foreign langua'ges, mathematics, science and technology,
geography and economics) are in short supply.
Government Strate&X and Bank Lendinut
1.28. Government strategy. The reforms undertaken by the Government over the
past five years were aimed at maintaining educational access in line with the
growth of the school population and, at the same time, at improving the system's
performance.   The first objective was achieved.   However,  deterioration of
quality and efficiency continue. In view of its economic reform program, and
social changes which accompany such reform, the Government recognizes the prime
importance of better quality in basic and secondary education.  Recently the
Minister of Education stated that the Government's priorities for this sub-sector
are to: (i) strengthen and renovate educational research capacity; (ii) revise
programs and improve curriculum design mechanisms to make what children learn
more relevant to their cultural and social environment; (iii) improve teacher and
staff training; (iv) improve children's school environment by providing adequate
pedagogic materials; (v) strengthen management capacity at central and wilaya
levels; and (vi) improve cost and financing mechanisms in education. As part of
this effort, the Government intends to review the quality and cost-efficiency of
the production, distribution and financing of school books (Annex 11). Over the
next decade the Government plans to continue its efforts to increase access to
basic education to include 100% of the 6 year age group and increase attainment
ratios by lowering repetition and dropout rates.   However,  many of these
objectives still need to be translated into costed action programs and it will
be difficult to find adequate financing in view of the present economic
recession. More importantly, the Government presently (a) lacks the proper tools
to measure the system's performance and (b) has not systematically evaluated the
impact of past and ongoing reform measures. Without this information it will be
difficult to develop effective longer-term strategies for better quality. Lack
of adequate institutional management capacity at both central and wilaya level
also plays an important role. Staff need training in modern management practices
and the proper means to execute the Government's strategy.
1.29.   A secondary education reform was undertaken during the 1980s parallel to
the introduction of basic education.   However,  results did not live up to
expectations and a new secondary reform is underway (annex 3). The reformed
secondary system will contain two separate streams (after a common first year),
leading to different diplomas, only one of them giving access to university. The
Government expects that this will improve pupils' learning achievements and will
result in significant cost-savings since it will reduce subject specialization.
However, although the reformed secondary system will dramatically increase the
number of pupils with a secondary school diploma (giving only access to
vocational training or the job market), it will not necessarily satisfy its users
(parents and employers) for the following reasons: (i) relevance and quality of
all subject matter taught in the 6 'options' which are offered need to be
improved in line with international standards; (ii) capacity in vocational
training remains largely inadequate to cater for school graduates; (iii) there
is a lack of higher vocational training institutes; and (iv) both secondary and
vocational training continue to be supply driven while economic demand is not
expected to pick up unless transition to a market-oriented economy is



- 12 -
accelerated.   To address  these problems  the Government would need to (a)
accelerate decentralization of education and training management to the wilayate
and allow competition between individual wilayate; (b) increase incentives for
demand-driven and cost-reducing non-public education and training modes; (c)
improve incentives for staff training in the sector; and (d) gradually introduce
cost-recovery mechanisms for post-basic education and training.
1.30.   The importance of an improved student flow, combined with increasing
decentralization, which gives the local wilayate some management autonomy,
requires competent staff at the COSPs. To strengthen its COSP network the MEN
will construct 70 new COSP over the next five years and train about 1,500 new
specialized staff.  However, the growing willingness of central government to
delegate governance to the wilayate is not by itself sufficient to bring about
lasting change. It will take a long time to sustainably reverse the inefficient
planning and work habits bred over the last 25-30 years.   Overcoming these
accumulated rigidities in education will be a delicate undertaking that will
require substantial incentives and time in order to succeed.
1.31.   Bank lending strategy.   The Bank is pursuing a realistic strategy in
Algeria,  taking  into  account  the  unsettled  political  and  socio-economic
environment, but with sufficient flexibility to adjust to improved conditions.
Investment lending include the social sectors, housing and land development,
rehabilitation and expansion of basic public infrastructure, and environmental
protection. High priority is better implementation performance of the existing
project portfolio.   Bank economic and sector work focuses on strategies for
managing the economic transition and completing the structural adjustment process
over the medium term.  The Bank supports the Government's strategy of meeting
social sector needs by improving quality and efficiency of basic social services.
Basic and secondary education is a key priority, as almost 50% of the population
is under the age of 15 and that Bank-financed technical assistance is a critical
input for innovation and reform.  A Bank sector study in this area has been
completed in 1990 and resulted in recommendations on how to improve quality and
efficiency in education-11.  The proposed project is based on this study and
complements the Bank's on-going Vocational Training project (Loan no.2977-AL) and
Science and Technology University Development project (Loan no.3266-AL). A Health
Management project is also underway and will contribute to developing major
institutional changes in the management and operations of the health system.
1.32.   The Bank's sector study concluded that to achieve better education for
Algerian children, high priority should be given to (i) better staff performance
and management; (ii) an improved learning environment in schools, which includes
improved provision of pedagogic inputs and better quality of instruction; and
(iii) reinforced evaluation and assessment capacity to enable adequate monitoring
of the system's performance. The proposed Bank-financed project is the first step
in this long process, which will take at least a decade, and ultimately lead to
a basic and secondary system that adequately prepares Algerian children for a
productive social and economic life. The project will provide most schools with
simple pedagogic inputs, which will contribute to an improved learning
.1/   How to improve quaLity and efficiency in Basic and Secondary Education in Algeria; Report 8912-
AL; WorLd Bank, August 1, 1990.



- 13 -
environment. It will also put in place a pilot evaluation and assessment system,
and support pedagogical research and training, which will help develop tools for
adequate measurement of the system's performance and assist the Government to
better understand the underlying causes for the continued quality decline. The
Bank's international experience in this sector will be essential in order to
attain the Government's larger objective of social and economic reform. This is
the first Bank involvement in this subsector and the first project to target
quality and efficiency at the base of the education and training system.
Continued Bank support will be based on the outcomes of this project and lead to
future follow-up operations focused on the subsector's more fundamental issues
and on longer term sustainable educational development.
1.33.   Experience with past lending.  Bank lending in Algeria consisted, until
1983, of discrete investments aimed at assisting the government in the
development and reform of technical education and sector specific technical and
vocational training. The first education project (Loan 913-AL (FY73) of US$6.0
million) helped develop the Agronomy Institute of Mostaganem and the Algerian
Institute of Petroleum.   The second project (Loan 1209-AL (FY76) of US$47.0
million) focused on the development of a technician training institute for
electronics where an existing institute was reequipped and a new curriculum
implemented.   Results were found to be satisfactory and the original project
design well justified. The third project (Loan 1378-AL (FY77) of US$48.5 million)
focused on the creation of seven technicums (secondary technical schools).
However, due to major procurement and construction problems, the Bank ultimately
only financed equipment for the government-financed technicums.   The fourth
education project (Loan 1595-AL (FY78) of US$90 million) helped finance the
construction of the Instructor Training Institute (IFP) in Annaba, the extension
of the Polytechnic Institute (ENSEP) in Oran and the provision of equipment and
fellowships for the National Institute of Mechanical Engineering (INGM). The
fifth education project (Loan 1803-AL (FY80) of US$87.0 million) aimed at the
creation of Maintenance Training Centers under the Ministry of Labor and
Vocational Training (MLVT) and Industrial Training Centers under the Ministry of
Light Industries (MLI). It was reappraised in 1982 when MLI withdrew from the
project and its scope was significantly reduced.   These projects have been
completed and Completion Reports issued.
1.34.   Administrative and technical difficulties,  including major changes in
ministerial responsibilities, and lack of absorptive capacity, commitment to
project design and expertise in Bank procurement, led to a very significant, but
necessary, scaling-down of the sector portfolio in 1983-85. However, renewed
dialogue through careful sector work led to two on-going projects and the
preparation of the proposed project. The ongoing vocational training project
(Loan 2977-AL in FY89 of US$54.0 million)aims at upgrading facilities and
strengthening training programs and management of 57 vocational training centers,
4 instructor-Training Institutes and the Maintenance Training Institute. The
loan became effective in September 1989 and its implementation is proceeding at
a rapid pace. A mid-term review for this project will be carried out in FY93.
The university development project (Loan 3266-AL in FY90 of US$65.0 million)
became effective in December 1991. The project aims at improving (i) university
management and administration; (ii) curriculum relevance, teaching quality and
teacher qualifications in selected science and technology degree programs
targeted at labor market needs; and (iii) closer research and training links with



- 14 -
local industry.   Project implementation has started and the first project-
financed proposals from the participating universities have been approved by the
Bank.
1.35.   Lessons learned and future lending.   Lessons learned from previous
lending have been incorporated into the proposed project. The Completion Reports
of earlier projects have emphasized the need for: (i) increased involvement of
the Borrower's technical staff in project identification, design and preparation;
(ii) improved assessment of absorptive capacity of the executing institutions and
taking administrative procedures of the Borrower better into account during
project implementation and supervision; (iii) assigning the administration of the
loan and, when possible, the management of the project to a single entity with
the necessary leverage to resolve issues promptly and sufficient resources to
monitor implementation; (iv) providing adequate preparation, including extensive
advance training to local staff for decentralization of project responsibilities;
and (v) ensuring efficient and sufficient project implementation coordination by
the different executing agencies and the coordinating project management entity.
The project's design has been kept simple and its management structure
transparent due to the above-mentioned problems of portfolio management related
to those stated above. The proposed project would be executed by MEN, and the
Project Management Unit (PMU), composed of a Director and representatives of all
institutions concerned, would be responsible for coordination and project
administration and report directly to the Minister of Education (para. 3.8).



- 15 -
II. THE PROJECT
Background
2.1.    The proposed project was prepared by the Government following a joint
sub-sector review by the Government and the Bank on how to improve quality and
efficiency in basic and secondary educationi' and a project identification
mission in October 1990. The Bank reached broad agreement with the Government
on the scope and content of the proposed project during three preparation
missions (May and October 1991 and February 1992), followed by a pre-appraisal
mission in May 1992. Appraisal of the project took place in November 1992.
In addition, the Government has confirmed its commitment to review the quality
and cost-efficiency of the production and distribution of school books, and will
complete a study to that effect by December 1995.
Proiect scope and obiectives
2.2.    Scope.   The project is designed to support quality and efficiency
improvements in the basic and secondary education sub-sector with replicable
innovation and change at wilaya level. During project preparation the Ministry
of National Education decided that the project should have a limited scope and
be highly focused on the immediate needs in basic and secondary education. The
project will help the Government to better understand the underlying causes of
the present problems and enable the development of effective reform measures for
sustainable improvement. Education authorities are aware of the fact that this
will require major changes in attitudes and actions of decision makers, teachers
and parents and pupils and that continued support from politicians over a long
period of time will be needed.   The project would act as a catalyst for
innovation in this process. Successful implementation would lead to subsequent
projects addressing the more structural sub-sector problems.
2.3.    Project Objectives.  This project will only be a first step in a longer-
term process of improving the quality of pupils' learning achievements and
increasing the efficiency of resource utilization. The proposed project aims to:
(i) help to introduce a pilot system for assessment of learning outcomes and
quality in basic and secondary education; (ii) strengthen the quality of
pedagogic research programs and staff training; and (iii) improve supply to and
use of pedagogic materials in schools. The project would provide the Government
with tools to improve its capacity in measuring the system's performance. This
would yield relevant information for improved evaluation of more structural
problems in the subsector. Improved supply and use of pedagogic materials would
directly contribute to more effective learning in schools and help teachers to
teach better. Through promotion of improved assessment and pedagogic research
the project will also assist the Government in monitoring the implementation of
the ongoing secondary education reform and evaluate the impact of the 9 years of
basic education system.
1'     How to improve quality and efficiency in Basic and Secondery Education in Algeria; Report no.
8912-AL; World Bank, August 1, 1990.



- 16 -
2.4.    The proposed project would assist the Government in starting the process
of improving quality and efficiency in basic and secondary education by:
a. improving the MEN's existing institutional capacity in assessing
pupils' learning achievements and in measuring quality and efficiency
in education based on the OECD-1 education indicators framework;
b. strengthening pedagogic research capacity and quality through support
for applied pedagogic research programs and staff training of the
National Pedagogic institute (IPN);
c. providing pedagogic materials to about 14,000 basic and secondary
schools as well as reinforcing the institutional capacity of the
MEN's procurement, maintenance and distribution agency (CAMEMD)
thereby improving the effective use of pedagogic materials in
schools.
2.5.    The project would be implemented in 8 years and finance staff training,
technical assistance, pedagogic research, documentation, pedagogic materials and
technical equipment for three components (annexes 5, 8 and 9).
Detailed Proiect Description
2.6.    The first component (US$3.3 million; 6% of total estimated base cost)
would assist the Government in the design and implementation of a pilot system
for learning assessment and guality and efficiency evaluation. This component
would:
a. strengthen the learning assessment and quality evaluation capacity
within the MEN and at the wilaya level, piloted through School
Orientation and Selection Centers (COSPs) in six different wilayate;
and
b. disseminate information on new assessment techniques, formats and
practices to the education community and decision makers, especially
to inspectors, teacher trainers, school principals and teachers.
2.7.    Pilot assessment and indicators. This component would finance (i) the
development and introduction of a pilot national assessment system by the MEN
(Department or structures within the MEN responsible for Orientation and
Evaluation - DOE); (ii) improvement of existing pupil testing, orientation and
selection procedures through training of Algerian experts and creation of
computerized test-item banks; (iii) development of six groups of standard quality
and efficiency indicators based on the OECD model; and (iv) dissemination of the
assessment and evaluation results to the education community.   Initially six
COSPs selected in six different wilayate (annex 4) would participate in field
tests and provide the vital link to the schools and teachers. COSP staff will
be trained in testing and evaluation techniques.   COSPs located in six (6)
1/    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, "Education at a glance: OECD indicators",
Center for Educationat Research and Innovation (OECD 1992).



- 17 -
different wilayate have been selected. COSP in these selected wilayate currently
assist in orientation and selection of pupils in about 2,300 basic education
schools (1,900 1st and 2nd cycles and 430 3rd cycle) and in 136 secondary
schools. A second phase, planned for 1996-97 and entirely financed by the MEN
through its own recurrent budget, would include an additional seven wilayate and
would build on the results achieved under this proposed project.
2.8.    Assessment of learning achievement will be field-tested over the next
three to four years by designing and implementing about nine pupil achievement
surveys at four different levels in the system (lst, 2nd and 3rd cycles of basic
education and at secondary level) in four subjects (Arabic, Mathematics, Sciences
and French). Within the framework of the pilot system the DOE would also develop
computerized test-item banks and operational indicators to measure educational
quality and efficiency based on the OECD indicator system framework. Six main
groups of quality and efficiency indicators, including indicators of internal and
external efficiency, would be developed.   This would yield quantitative and
qualitative information on whether the basic and secondary education system is
attaining its desired goals. Assessment of learning achievements would allow
decision makers to identify discrepancies between the official (intended) and the
delivered curriculum and provide information on how to modify current practice
in response to identified weaknesses and shortcomings. Disseminating information
on new assessment techniques, formats, and practices will emphasize development
of testing instruments to serve as models of good practice and to positively
influence existing orientation, examination and selection processes. Test-item
data banks would include statistics on pupils' performance on test items and
provide an important feedback mechanism for teachers.
2.9.    Technical and pedagogic equipment (computers, software, photocopiers and
documentation), training and expert services for the DOE and the COSPs would be
financed under the project. About 20 Algerian experts would receive specialist
training in international institutions recognized for their knowledge in these
areas under a technical cooperation contract (about 100 staff months). About 14
of the 20 specialists would receive training in pedagogic evaluation, assessment
and surveying techniques and question and test construction (about 70 staff
months total); and about 6 specialists would receive training in testing
methodologies and pluri-disciplinary approaches in educational evaluation
techniques using indicators (about 30 staff months total). In addition, about
10 staff months of expert services would be provided to assist in designing and
implementing the nine surveys.   To ensure feedback to schools the MEN would
organize national and wilaya based seminars to provide training of local staff
and dissemination of assessment and evaluation results. To this end about 1,830
national and wilaya-based education inspectors, specialized in sciences,
mathematics and languages and in pedagogic counselling, would attend local
seminars (about 10 days per seminar) organized by the DOE and COSP staff. All
project-financed activities would emphasize the qualitative assessment of pupils
learning activities, processes and outcomes and could also cover the impact of
new or modified learning materials and methods, program content and delivery
systems. A special analysis of the effectiveness of the assessment activities
would be submitted to the Bank for review and comment, as part of the Annual
Project Implementation Review (para. 3.18).



- 18 -
2.10.   Pedagogic research. The second component (US$2.0 million; 4% of total
estimated base cost) would support training and implementation activities linked
to pedagogic research programs of the National Pedagogic Institute. IPN develops,
implements and supervises pedagogic research programs (including research
contracts with third parties) at national and at local levels related to
(i) evaluation and analysis of education reforms, (ii) production and publication
of pedagogic support materials, (iii) curriculum design and evaluation of school
programs and (iv) design and lay-out of texts for schoolbooks.   The proposed
project would finance (a) institutional strengthening of the IPN through training
and provision of limited pedagogic equipment; (b) implementation of pedagogic
research programs on design and evaluation of curricula and their links to
presentation and lay-out of texts for schoolbooks (project-financed activities
would represent about one third of all IPN's pedagogic research activities); (c)
dissemination in the education community of curriculum research results by
providing local training seminars for wilaya-based staff and about 12,000 copies
of an IPN newsletter; and (d) provision of about 5,000 new library books,
research journals and periodicals in pedagogic research areas relevant to IPN.
Relevant pedagogic research would lead to more effective school support and
improved curricula.
2.11.     Objectives and project-financed activities of research programs and
studies would be jointly reviewed by the MEN and the Bank and would aim to
analyze and improve the coherence of curriculum content between subjects and
levels of basic (cycles 1, 2 and 3) and secondary education in Arabic and
Physical Sciences. Based on these results the prescribed national curricula and
schoolbook texts would be revised. IPN's curriculum design and textbook editing
services would benefit from training and equipment (repro- and desk top
publishing equipment,  computers  and software).   The project would provide
training for about 36 pedagogic specialists of IPN (about 108 staff months of
overseas training) in the latest developments of curriculum and schoolbook text
design. These experts would be trained during the first project implementation
year and then return to lead pedagogic research and conduct training seminars for
wilaya-based  staff.    In addition,  about  35 staff months  in services by
international experts under a technical cooperation contract would be financed
to assist IPN in organizing its pedagogic research programs and related local
seminars which aim to disseminate research results and train wilaya-based staff.
About 12 two-day seminars in different wilayate would be organized under the
project, each including about 50 wilaya-based staff (pedagogic counsellors,
inspectors and teacher trainers).   Seminar organization and content would be
determined by the 36 trained IPN specialists in cooperation with international
experts.   During the first two years of project implementation, about 12,000
copies of a newsletter aimed at schools would be distributed in order to
disseminate curriculum research results more widely in the education community.
After that period IPN would finance all costs through its own recurrent budget.
Regular reviews would take place of topics, terms-of-reference and proposed
project-financed technical cooperation for the applied research programs,
seminars, staff training and other proposed studies, as part of the Annual
Project Implementation Review process (para 3.18).
2.12.   Under the project,  IPN's library services would be modernized and
strengthened by financing about 5,000 technical books, international journals,
periodicals and publications in the different specializations relevant to IPN's



- 19 -
tasks. About 5 staff months of expert services would be used for training of
IPN's library staff and advising on acquisition of documentation. The library
would also be provided with a computerized information system. IPN was designed
to be the center for professional information exchange, evaluation, reform and
innovation in the education community. The bulk of its staff comes from the
teaching force and inspectorate and needs additional background information in
order to fulfill their tasks effectively. IPN staff lacks information on recent
international developments in education research, planning and administration.
An infusion of modern technical literature would assist IPN to develop effective
specialized expertise in pedagogic research and new teaching methodologies.
2.13.   Improved provision and more effective use of Redagogic materials. The
third component (US$51.0 million; 90X of estimated total base cost) would improve
supply and use of pedagogic materials in schools through: (a) provision of
pedagogic materials for about 10,500 existing and 2,500 grade 1-6 school under
construction, and 750 grade 7-9 and 250 secondary schools under construction;
(b) improved provision and use of school science laboratory products in about
3,500 grade 7-12 schools, rehabilitation of CAMEMD storage and redistribution
facilities for such materials and the provision of related equipment and staff
training; and (c) provision of spare parts, equipment, technical assistance,
staff training and improved CAMEMD maintenance facilities for improved
maintenance services to schools.
2.14.  Provision of Pedagogic materials to schools would include procurement and
distribution of pedagogic support materials to the schools and training of
teachers in their effective use through locally organized seminars. Standard
lists of pedagogic materials per school type and level have been prepared by the
CAMEMD on the basis of annual school construction targets. The MEN and the Bank
have reviewed and approved specified equipment lists and the procurement and
distribution implementation schedule.  These documents would be reviewed and
adjusted during each Annual Proiect Implementation Review (para. 3.18).  All
pedagogic materials would be procured by CAMEMD through international competitive
bidding and distributed to schools through CAMEMD's 8 regional units.
2.15.   Nature and Rurpose of pedagogic materials.  Each of the 13,000 grade 1-6
basic education schools would receive a package with a metric compendium (weights
and measures) and some basic arithmetic and mathematical tools. Grade 1-6 school
supplies would consist of: (a) length, width and surface measuring tools (rulers,
wooden and plastic blocks); (b) volume measuring tools for solids and liquids;
(c) tools to measure simple forces (pulleys, weights and balancing scales); (d)
temperature and atmospheric pressure measuring tools (thermometers, barometer);
(e) magnets sets; and (f) set of 10 solid geometrical forms. In addition to the
10,500 existing grade 1-6 schools about 500 new schools would be constructed each
year over the next five years. In total, this sub-component would benefit about
150,000 teachers and 4 million pupils.   Secondly, under the project, pedagogic
materials would be provided for about 750 grade 7-9 schools and 250 secondary
schools, to be constructed at an annual rate of respectively 150 and 50 over the
project life. This would include teacher demonstration and school materials for
science and technology related subjects and simple technical equipment. School
supplies for grade 7-9 schools would consist of: (g) equipment for electricity
experiments; (h) mechanics and heat measuring tools; (i) meteorological measuring
tools; (j) equipment for natural sciences (microscope, slide-projector,



- 20 -
magnifying glasses, lenses); (k) laboratory glassware; and (1) woodwork and
ironwork tools for technology activities.   Secondary school supplies would
consist of equipment for: (m) mechanics and vibration motion phenomena; (n) heat
transport and optical phenomena; (o) electricity and magnetism phenomena; (p)
natural science and biology experiments (microscopes, slide projector, loupes,
dissecting sets, binoculars); and (q) laboratory glassware. In total, this would
benefit about 50,000 teachers and 750,000 pupils. Finally, each of the 750 grade
7-9 and 250 secondary schools will be supplied with an electrical typewriter,
hand calculators, a photocopier and a stencil duplicator machine. Annual school
construction programs are based on: (i) the need to improve access to basic and
secondary education and phase out of double shifts; and (ii) projected growth
rates of the school population over the next five years.
2.16.   Improved provision. storage, redistribution and use of school science
laboratory products.   The project would also finance an initial supply of
consumable school science laboratory products for chemistry, physics and biology
in about 3,500 grade 7-12 schools, rehabilitation of physical storage facilities
at one of CAMEMD's regional antennas, and technical equipment and staff training
to improve storage and redistribution. CAMEMD would procure these products and
redistribute them to the schools.  The current capacity of CAMEMD's physical
facilities for temporary storage and redistribution of laboratory products is
insufficient and staff and technicians need training in handling supply and
redistribution of these school science laboratory products. One of the eight
regional antennas of the CAMEMD ("Unite de Conditionnement a BoufarikV1'") has
been selected as the specialized site to handle reception, storage and
redistribution of these materials. The MEN considers it better in terms of cost-
effectiveness and safety to concentrate equipment and staff training at one of
the regional antennas than to provide these services through all eight. During
appraisal the Bank reviewed civil works plans and complementary technical
equipment lists which would be financed by the Government through the recurrent
budget of CAMEMD.
2.17.   To strengthen maintenance services and promote a better use of pedagogic
materials the project would finance: (a) rehabilitation of laboratories and
workshops at Boufarik; (b) provision of spare parts and repair of technical
equipment; (c) provision of training for technicians and expert services; and (d)
provision of updated technical documentation for CAMEMD. Currently about 210,000
scientific instruments need to be serviced and maintained annually by CAMEMD.
Its facilities and technical capacity are insufficient to deal effectively with
all required tasks. All civil works would be financed by the Government under
the project. Technical equipment and spare parts would be financed by the Bank
loan. Training of about 26 higher staff (technicians) in similar institutions
abroad would be provided under a technical cooperation contract (32 staff
months). In addition, CAMEMD would organize local seminars to train (i) about
100 higher technicians (five 4-day seminars each year) in its regional units;
(ii) about 1,000 school laboratory technicians; and (iii) about 29,000 science
teachers.  Under the project CAMEMD would be provided with updated technical
Boufarik is one of the 8 regional units ("antennes regionales") of the CAMEMD; the other regional
units are in Sidi Bel Abbes, Saida, Batna, Ghelma, Tiaret, Toggourt and Bordj Bou Arrerdj.
Regional units are responsible for distribution, maintenance and training in the use of school
equipment.



- 21 -
documentation and a computerized information and maintenance system to improve
its services and make them more cost-effective. The MEN would also complete by
December 31, 1994 a study on maintenance and safety aspects in schools (the Bank
loan finances 3 staff months of expert services) aiming to improve maintenance
services and safety standards for pedagogic materials and technical equipment
used in schools.   During negotiations agreement was reached on the terms-of-
reference for that study (Annex 11). which would be completed by December 31.
1994, and its recommendations implemented in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to the Bank.
Environmental Impact
2.18.   The  project has been  classified  in category  "C":  "no appreciable
environmental impact".   Priority would be given, however,  to activities and
curricula which would include adequate coverage of environmental issues and
information.



- 22 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Proiect costs
3.1.    Total project costs are estimated at 2.55 billion Algerian Dinars (DA)
or US$64.0 million equivalent, including taxes. These costs include: technical
equipment and pedagogic materials for basic and secondary schools and the
national pedagogic support institutes, documentation, staff training and
technical cooperation, construction and rehabilitation of education facilities,
and incremental operating costs. Costs estimates have been calculated in US$
equivalent on the basis of November 1992 prices. The estimated project costs are
summarized below (detailed project cost tables are presented in Annex 5).
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT
---- DA Million -----   --- US$ Million ---    X       I
Local Foreign Total     Local Forsign Total  Forsian B. costs
Investment Costs:
1. Pilot national assessment system
43.6   28.0   71.6       2.0  1.3  3.3       39%      6%
2. Pedagogic research               6.8   38.1   44.9        0.3  1.7  2.0       85%      4%
3. Improvement of supply and use
of pedagogic materials         408.8  713.4 1,122.2     18.6  32.4  51.0      64%    90%
Total Baseline Costs               459.2  779,5 1,239.5     20. 9  35.4  56 3    63X   100%
Physical Contingencies           3.4   41.7   45.1       0.1  1.9  2.0        93%     4%
Price Contingencies            650.2  600.1 1,250.3      3.0  2.7   5.7       47%    10%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              1,112.7 1,421.4 2,534.1    24 0  40.0  64.0     63X   1147
Totals may not add up due to rounding of numbers.
A summary of project costs by category of expenditure is given in Table 3.2
below.



- 23 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
---- DA Million -----  ---- US$ Million ---  X
Expenditure:         Local Foreian  Total   Local Foreign Total  Foreign Base costs
Investment Costs:
Civil works             31.3   0.0   31.3     1.4   0.0   1.4     0%      3%
Technical equipment     3.1    172.7  175.7   0.1   7.9  8.0     98%      14%
Pedagogic materials     0.6  537.9  538.5     0.0  24.5  24.5    100X    43%
Technical cooperation
and training          61.3  66.8   128.1    2.8   3.0   5.8     52%     10%
Total Investment Costs  96.2  777.4  873.6    4.4  35.3  39.7    89%      71%
Recurrent Costs:
Operations and maintenance   363.0   2.1  365.1    16.5   0.1  16.6  1%   30%
Total Baseline Costs    459.2    779.5   1,238.7  20.9  35.4    56.3  63%  100%
Physical contingencies  3.4  41.7   45.1     0.1   1.9  2.0    93%       4%
Price contingencies   650.2    600.1   1,250.3  3.0  2.7  5.7    47%     10%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS   1,112.7  1,421,4   2,534.1  24.0  40.0    64.0  63%  114%
Totals may not add up due to rounding of numbers.
3.2.   Basis of cost estimates.   Costs for expert services have been estimated
in US$ terms and converted into Algerian Dinars at the official exchange rate of
DA22 per US$. The staff-month costs of foreign expert services include travel,
housing, subsistence, fees, overhead and recruitment costs. The cost of overseas
training for MEN institutions' staff has been estimated at $4000 per month per
person, including travel, housing and meals. Local training would be provided
through seminars at an average cost of $23/person/day.   Pedagogic materials
(library books, supplementary documentation and school materials) and technical
equipment costs have been estimated on the basis of recent contracts concluded
by the CAMEMD and the IPN. Costs of computer equipment and software have been
estimated on the basis of international prices. These costs include installation
of  the  equipment   and  training   of  the  user/personnel.          Finally,
construction/rehabilitation of education facilities (laboratory and workrooms for
the CAMEMD) are based on local estimates by the MEN. The costs of these works,
averaging US$333 per m2 (DA7000 per m2), are considered reasonable and in line
with recent cost of similar construction.
3.3.   Customs duties and taxes.  Equipment and goods imported directly for use
by MEN are exempt from taxes and duties (decree of the Journal Officiel published
October 11, 1992). Indirect taxes on project local costs have been estimated at
about US$500,000.
3.4.   Contingency allowances. The physical contingency allowance, estimated at
US$2.0 million equivalent, has been calculated applying the following
percentages, namely 10% to civil works, 6% to technical equipment and pedagogic
materials,  and  5%  to  consultant  services  and  foreign  training.    Price
contingencies between appraisal (November 1992) and project completion are
estimated at US$5.7 million equivalent, or 10% of base costs in US$ terms. Total
contingencies represent US$7.7 million or 14% of the total base costs in US$
terms. Price increases for foreign inflation have been applied at the annual
rate of 3.8% for 1993, 1.9% for 1994, 2.7% for 1995, and 3.5% for the outer years



- 24 -
of the project. Local inflation has been estimated as follows: 30% in 1993, 24%
in 1994, 20% in 1995, 19% in 1996, 15% in 1997, 13% in 1998, and 10% in 1999 and
2000.
3.5.   Foreign exchange component.   The foreign exchange component has been
estimated as follows: (a) technical cooperation and training - 52%; (b) pedagogic
materials - 100%; (c) technical equipment - 98%; (d) construction and
rehabilitation of education facilities - 0% and (e) operations and maintenance -
3%.   Including contingencies,  the resulting foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$ 40.0 million, or 63% of total project costs.
3.6.   Incremental recurrent costs. Additional operating costs under the project
would result mainly from distributing, operating and maintaining (and replacing)
the pedagogic materials and the technical equipment supplied to the 14,000
schools to the MEN. Over the project life, total recurrent costs would amount
to about US$16 million equivalent in base costs of 26% of total project costs.
It is estimated that even over the second half of the project life, those costs
would never represent more than 1% of this year's MEN's recurrent budget.
Project Financing
3.7.   The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million would finance the foreign exchange
component of the project or 58% of total project costs net of taxes.   The
Government would bear all local costs, namely civil works, local staff training,
local studies, maintenance of pedagogic materials and technical equipment and
most project management costs. During negotiations. agreement was reached that
adequate annual budget funds would be provided to the MEN in order to ensure
effective project implementation. These allocations would be reviewed annually
at the time of each Annual Project Implementation Review (APIR).   Project
financing would be in accordance with Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
-----  US$ Million  -------
Components                                 Government      IBRD   Total
1. Pilot national assessment system                        2.3          1.4      3.7
2. Pedagogic research                                      0.3          2.0      2.3
3. Improvement of supply and use
of pedagogic materials                               21.4        36.6    58.0
Total                                                  24.0         40.0    64.0
Project financing per category of expenditures is provided in Annex 5.



- 25 -
Proiect Management and Implementation
3.8.   Project Management.  The proposed project would be implemented (annex 8
provides an implementation schedule) by the following institutions of the
Ministry of National Education: the Department in charge of Orientation and
Evaluation which would also supervise activities executed by the six COSPs, the
IPN and the CAMEMD. The project would use the existing structures and routine
functions of the MEN for daily project implementation with the following
modifications. Overall responsibility for project management and coordination
of activities at all levels would be within a Project Management Unit (PHU). The
PMU would be established at the central MEN level with funding at levels, and
membership and administrative staff whose qualifications and experience, shall
be satisfactory to the Bank. Members of the PMU shall meet at least once every
six (6) months and shall include the Project Director. Annex 6 illustrates the
proposed project management and supervision structure and its linkages. The PMU
would report directly to the Minister of Education and meet at least once every
six months.
3.9.   The PMU would be responsible for (i) general project administration and
supervision  of  project  activities;   (ii)  project  and  loan  accounting;
(iii) coordination of procurement and disbursement; (iv) preparing, organizing
and implementing the Annual Project Implementation Reviews (APIRs) and the mid-
term project implementation review; and (v) preparing and submitting semi-annual
project progress reports and annual APIR reports to the Bank (para. 3.18). If
the need arises, and subject to Bank agreement, the PMU would procure project-
financed expert services for the purpose of effective monitoring and evaluation.
The PMU would develop an annual work program for the project, including
quantitative and qualitative output targets, incorporate the Government-financed
activities of this program in the MEN annual recurrent budget, and ensure the
timely release of funds for Bank-financed activities.   The proposed annual
project-related work program and its detailed budget and financing schedule for
each coming project year would be presented in the APIR report. The costs of the
PMU over the life of the project are estimated at US$350,000 equivalent. Total
PMU costs include transportation, and technical equipment (30% of its envelope
financed under the Bank loan), consultant services and overhead costs (70%).  The
project would finance the following PMU activities: (i) field supervision through
regular staff visits; (ii) training and travel for the Project Director linked
to project management and supervision activities; (iii) improvement in technical
equipment for effective project management (provision of computers, software,
office equipment and consumables); (iv) workshops and field studies on project
management, monitoring and evaluation issues; and (v) assistance for necessary
project administration activities. During negotiations agreement was obtained
on: (i) carrying out Annual Project Implementation Reviews (APIRs) and a Mid-term
Project Implementation Review: and (ii) members, responsibilities, resources and
staff of a Project Management Unit (PMU),
3.10.  Responsibilities  of  the  Project  Director  would  include:  (a)  daily
supervision of all PMU project management activities; (b) organizing and
supervising the work of assigned administrative and pedagogic staff for project
administration, monitoring and evaluation; (c) coordinating and chairing the
meetings of the PMU; and (d) ensuring the coordination and timely preparation and
completion of all project monitoring and evaluation reports.   The Project



- 26 -
Director would be assisted by two or three project-financed support staff and
expert services as deemed necessary. Loan effectiveness would be conditional
upon MEN having established the PMU with funding at levels, and membership and
administrative staff whose gualifications and experience are satisfactory to the
Bank.
Procurement
3.11. Procurement. Under the proposed project, procurement and distribution of
all pedagogic materials and technical equipment would be implemented by CAMEMD.
Lists of equipment and pedagogic materials financed by the project have been
reviewed and agreed upon during appraisal. A preliminary procurement schedule
and content of most bidding packages have also been agreed upon. Whenever
possible, invitations to bid on equipment will be grouped into packages for
different types of schools and institutions, the contents of which could
typically be supplied by one supplier (such as groups of computers). In order
to reduce the workload for CAMEMD the number of packages would be limited as much
as possible by combining materials of the same nature in one package and by
requiring suppliers to make phased deliveries over longer periods of time. Based
upon appraised equipment lists and cost estimates proposals, these packages would
at a minimum average US$1.0 million each.   All items would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (May, 1992). Items procured through ICB would account for about 90% of
the total value of pedagogic materials and technical equipment.    Technical
cooperation and training (annex 9) would be procured in comprehensive packages
based on pedagogic research and training of the respective institutes and
according to the Bank's Guidelines for Consultants.   Loan effectiveness would
be conditional LRon the MEN having issued invitations to submit RroDosals or bids
for the provision of the training, consultants services and Redagogic materials
and eguipment for a successful Rroject start up (Annex 12).
Table 3.4. summarizes the procurement arrangements.
Exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
a.  Sundry items, such as documentation and library books and equipment for
the project management unit not exceeding $250,000 per contract and
aggregated to a maximum of US$4 million equivalent, could be purchased
through international or local shopping.
b.  Technical cooperation and training would be procured according to the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  (August  1981).    For  each
institution, the pre-selected consultant agencies or institutions,
would be invited to submit proposals for comprehensive packages of
technical assistance and training.



- 27 -
TABLE 3.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
in US$ million
ICB      OTHERa/ N.B.F.b/    TOTAL
Civil works                                               1.6          1.6
(0.0)       (0.0)
Technical equipment                    9.0                             9.0
(8.8)                          (8.8)
Pedagogic materials                   23.7       4.0                  27.7
(23.7)    (4.0)                (27.7)
Technical cooperation and training               6.6                   6.6
(3.4)                 (3.4)
Operating costs                                 19.1                  19.1
(0.1)                 (0.1)
TOTAL                                 32.7      29.7      1.6         64.0
of which Bank                      (32.5)    (7.5)    (0.0)        (40.0)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank loan.
a. "Other" consists of shopping, and technical cooperation and training contracted as per Bank Guidelines.
b. "N.B.F.": not Bank-financed.
3.12. Bank Prior Review. For goods financed by the Loan, prior Bank review will
be required for all contracts exceeding US$250,000 equivalent. All documents
relating to procurement of consulting services and training to be financed from
the Bank loan proceeds above a value of $50,000 would be subject to Bank prior
review. All other contracts would be subject to random post-review. The Bank
has reviewed master lists of equipment, text of notices to bidders and
consultants' terms of reference. The Bank has reviewed and aDproved ti) standard
bidding document for eguiRment and pedagogic materials: and (ii) standard letter-
of-invitation for consultant services and overseas training.
Disbursements. Accounting and Auditing
3.13. Disbursements. The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million would be disbursed
over a period of about eight years (see Annex 5), which is comparable to the
average disbursement profile for all sectors in Algeria. The loan is expected
to become effective by September 30, 1993. Project Completion would be September
30, 2000 and the Loan Closing Date would be on March 31, 2001.
Disbursements would be made against:
a.  100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported technical
equipment and pedagogic materials (including copyright and royalty
payments); and 100% of the ex-factory expenditures for locally
manufactured technical equipment and pedagogic materials; 80% of total
expenditures of items procured locally;
b.  100% of the total expenditures for technical cooperation and training.
3.14. Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, with the exception of
those in respect of expenditures under contracts for goods valued below



- 28 -
US$250,000 equivalent, and of stipends, per diem and management training, in
which case applications would be submitted on the basis of Certified Statements
of Expenditures  (SOEs).   Documentation in these cases  (including lists of
recipients and amounts paid for stipends) would be retained by the Borrower for
at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in
which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available
for review by the auditors and by Bank staff upon request.
3.15. Special Account.    To  facilitate  timely project  implementation,  the
Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars with the Central Bank
of Algeria to which the World Bank would make an initial deposit of up to US$2.5
million, equivalent to about 4 months of loan expenditures. The Special Account
would  be  replenished  monthly  (or  at  the  latest  every  three  months).
Documentation for replenishment of the Special Account would follow the same
procedure as in paragraph 3.12.  In addition, monthly bank statements of the
Special Account, reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany all replenishment
requests. Until the Special Account is funded, the minimum size of withdrawal
applications acceptable by the Bank would be $100,000 equivalent, after which
applications submitted outside the Special Account would be for amounts
equivalent to at least 10% of the amount advanced to the Account. Modalities
concerning  the use of SOEs  and the Special Account were  agreed upon at
negotiations.
3.16. Accounts and Audits. Separate accounts for the project, including the SOEs
and the Special Account, would be maintained. Each year a detailed statement
reflecting project expenditures during that period, and projected expenditures
for the forthcoming year, would be prepared. Within 45 days after the end of
each year, copies of these statements would be submitted to the Bank to
facilitate  supervision.    Project  accounts  including  the  Special  Account
(para. 3.15) and SOE expenditures would be audited in accordance with the March
1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed
by the World Bank". Within six months of the end of each fiscal year, the Bank
would be provided with an audit report of such scope and detail as it may
reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements
against a certified statement of expenditures and on the Special Account. The
Government Provided assurances to this effect during negotiations.
Supervision. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.17. Status of project preparation.  During appraisal agreement was reached on:
(i) draft terms-of-reference for technical cooperation (consultants) and overseas
training packages and their implementation timetables; (ii) standard bidding
documents for procurement of pedagogic materials and technical equipment; (iii)
pedagogic materials and technical equipment lists and implementation timetables
for the bidding sequence of the different packages linked to school construction
schedules; (iv) pedagogic research activities to be carried out during the first
year of project implementation; (v) to carry out annual project implementation
reviews (APIRs) including a mid-term project review and semi-annual project
progress reports; and (vi) lists of operational project implementation indicators
per component. In addition, it was agreed that the MEN would complete, before
December 31, 1994, a maintenance and safety study linked to the use of pedagogic



- 29 -
materials and technical equipment in schools (para. 2.17). The project start-up
is expected in September 1993.
3.18. Bank Supervision.   The project would be supervised and monitored by the
Bank  through  regular  Bank  missions.    During  its  first  two  years  of
implementation,  18/20  sw of supervision per year would be necessary  and
thereafter about 15 sw/year. Bank supervision would rely on semi-annual project
implementation progress reports (para. 3.9) submitted to the Bank by the PMU
preferably every second and last quarters (April and November) of each calendar
year. The Annual Project Implementation Review (APIR) report would include a
detailed quantitative and qualitative evaluation of (i) all project activities;
(ii) project achievements on the basis of planned project objectives and activity
schedules; (iii) a revised list of project implementation indicators; (iv) an
expenditures review of actual/planned annual recurrent and investment
expenditures for all implemented activities; and (v) a proposed annual project
implementation work program for the next project year including a budget
breakdown  of  Government-  and  Bank-financed  activities.    In  addition  to
quantitative and qualitative data gathered from the three project executing
agencies and provided by the PMU in the project implementation progress reports
and APIRs, Bank missions would prepare and analyze information on the impact of
pedagogic studies, training activities and provision and use of pedagogic
materials, the status of project-financed procurement and disbursement, and on
compliance with loan covenants.   A project completion report would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the loan closing date (para. 3.13).   At
negotiations. the Government provided assurances to that effect.
3.19. Monitoring  and  Evaluation.    Monitoring  and  evaluation  of  project
implementation (annexes 6 and 8) would be based on lists of operational project
implementation indicators (annex 7), as jointly agreed between the Government and
the Bank.   Indicators would be revised and included in each periodic Annual
Project Implementation Review (APIR) report (para. 3.18).



- 30 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1.  Benefits.   The project could be expected to yield the following major
benefits:
a.  contribute to improved quality and relevance of learning content in
basic and secondary education, thereby preparing pupils better for
their further education and training;
b.   improved quantitative and qualitative measurement of pupils' learning
performance through staff training, pedagogic research and improved
assessment of learning outcomes in the pilot COSPs in six wilayate,
affecting about 1.3 million pupils in 2,400 basic and secondary
schools;
c.  a more  effective  pedagogic  information system,  thereby enabling
education decisions makers to develop improved longer-term reform
strategies based on reliable quantitative and qualitative assessment;
d.  improved staff training programs, thereby improving the performance
of about 1,800 pedagogic counsellors and inspectors and contributing
to improved pedagogic feedback up and down the system; and
e.  improved supply, management, maintenance and use of modern pedagogic
materials to about 14,000 basic and secondary schools, contributing
to better learning for about 5 million pupils and improved teaching
of about 200,000 teachers and to improved competency in the use and
maintenance of these materials for about 100 higher technicians, 1,000
school lab technicians and 29,000 science teachers.
4.2.  Risks.  The project's main risk lies in the present political situation
which could change strategies in the education sector and commitment to project
objectives. In this climate it will also be difficult to bring about
institutional changes. To take this situation into account project design has
been kept simple and its objectives focused exclusively on the immediate basic
and secondary education needs as analyzed by the MEN staff (paras. 2.2 - 2.3).
This has resulted in a high sense of project ownership within the executing
institutions.   The Government also indicated that more fundamental sector
problems should be dealt with in possible follow-up projects based on the
outcomes of this project.   A second risk lies in the capacity of education
decision makers, administrative managers and teachers to implement innovative
changes.  The system has a history of 30 years of centralized management and
curriculum planning. Project implementation procedures and adequate monitoring
and evaluation mechanisms (para. 3.18) would take this into account and would
provide sufficient scope for timely corrective action. A list of operational
project implementation indicators has been discussed and agreed upon with the
executing institutions.   A third risk lies in the absorptive capacity and
required continuity and quality of project management staff, which have been
identified as critical implementation factors in previous Bank projects.  Project
design has taken absorptive capacity into account. Adequate training for project



- 31 -
management staff would be provided. Transparent project management procedures
would be in effect during implementation. Staff and other resources necessary
for effective project management and coordination have been identified
(para. 3.9).
V. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1. During negotiations an understanding was reached that the Government would
carry out a study on the quality and cost-efficiency of schoolbook provision and
distribution by December 31, 1995.
5.2. During negotiations agreement was reached on the following:
a.  the MEN will complete the study of safety and maintenance of pedagogic
materials in schools by December 31, 1994 according to terms-of-
reference agreed with the Bank (para. 2.17); and implement the study's
recommendations according to a timetable acceptable to the Bank.
b.  adequate annual budget funds will be provided by the MEN in order to
ensure effective project implementation (paras. 3.7 and 3.18);
c.  an Annual Project Implementation Reviews  (APIRs)  and a mid-term
project implementation review will be carried out (paras. 3.9 and
3.18); and
d.  members,  responsibilities,  resources  and  staff  of  the  Project
Management Unit (PMU) (para. 3.9).
5.3.  The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
a.  that MEN establish the Project Management Unit (PMU) with members,
responsibilities, administrative staff and budget satisfactory to the
Bank, including the appointment of a Project Director (para. 3.10);
b.  that the MEN has launched bid-invitations for technical assistance,
overseas training packages and pedagogic materials and technical
equipment needed for a successful project start-up (para 3.11).
5.4. Recommendations. Subject to the above, the proposed project would provide
a suitable basis for a loan of US$40 million to the Government of Algeria.



-32-                                          Annex i
ALGERIE                                         Table  1A
STRUCTURE DU SYSTEME D'EDUCATION
EntignImenlt                            4 wlhft
Ur*dvusAmlr                  ENS        3  nI                                 prEuwiN
F~~~~~oB
Dip&m ~  ~     ~     {dr de Fi d#f  22w gt  2
1*annie ~ ~  ~     ~    Foneo
ASj3jjI~_                                    D        w          H
AS2                               I                       tjl
t                    T                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(durit descoum de2 mole 2ams)
14.15    |                        rsvat    lnnifudm~ga S
St -w
am   ASI       Sdw" uent at vb g      S uVW40h(APr
T                                        T
_         _        _       _           ftndwnauW(BEF
1e 12                4arnieAP4)
20 am'i (AF2)
s 6                                         It    we-As (APB)
wa~~~~~~~a
# ENS EN8ET EW ttxtnaiz bttGol0   d d Om                        Ea_
bl IEN EME Eh W de n olo   d*Wm r. bi    des mn"     de roue wi _  l aond



Annex 1
Table 1B
ALGERIE
MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION
M| de 
I rEducawn     I
et de inands6   GnF                                                                ~        F~
r..udgn.mmnt CI                                                      Itn    Iredncoiwrroio,msssI  lI Ippa
Dlrectlon de la    rwww"         rmw.Inm.nt        roil.ntanoACSn dO                 M*6wm  w la    rmcadnkdakmaldset'"dn                  atmsso
b\dcaAgnwidk mental   bPikdiri              de Yhvaln        prsonnals       r?otaz.                           eta'
CNEG   IFW                   cw                    (EPI  I               (EPIC)
a% Centre nalonal crEnhs nen g"M6n6a
t bufi InmU a  Ilfumr::VW0248Se
cA Cen-e r       oda Fmon des Cadr
dA C tre cAppWvWIonn   t ot de MWantea    des Equlpwerms et des May  idac_qus
*\ 0   nao n de Puban scdas



ALGERLA                                                                      ANNEX 1
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION 8lJPPORT PROJECT                                                     Ta  2
Recwrm  Budk Edmolmi mud Traii  Seaor (Nomi DA)
108S                   1961                    1917                    198                     1909            Averag
% of   %0              %         01            %  f    %               %          01            % d        o   anunual ea
DAM.  tol   GDP    DAM.  toal    GOP    DAM.  bal    GDP    DA-.  toa                   GDP      AM.  toal    13DP   growth rate
GROSS DOMESTIC PRoDUCT              277,330                297,700                  322,000                 348,000                 369.000                        1.10N
NATIONAL RECURRENT BUDGET             4,601  100.0%  19.7%   60,800  100.0%  20.0    63.000  100.0%   19.0^   66.500  100.0%  18.3    71,000  100.0%  20.0         1
OF WHICH:
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION       2,056   5.3%   1.0%    3.100    6.2%   1.0    3J,494    5.5%    1.1    3,432    5.2%    1.0      4,330    6.1%    1.2        5.03
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION   10,666   19.5%  3.6    12,72   21.5%   4.3    15,600   24.8%   4,6   17,111   26.1%?  4.9%   19.436   27.0%   6.44             6.78 
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING
AND LABOR                           1,396    2.0%  0.9     1.470    2.5%   0.6%    1,602    2.5%   0.5%       e l                      e
B .                                                                                                                          s   ::.    : .  .:4s.:i.i.s  :: 
a/ includes 1,063 DA m_ln lr On N"onal S_tA br Seondary and Tehnicd Educon wc wa put d th Minaty 
Educatin nd ISamc Reensh (which ltr on became Miyr d Hie Educabti
bi houcdle 1,47 DA mllmn    Natnl 8s' eetura hr Secanday and Techicl Edcwain.
ofVcedanl Valnn eoxaenbfe we ade d 1D   y ot Naton  Educatn exquniar
dl PRA rate, bad on GDP delat 9 (1"6 * 100)
/ Suig in 18, vatonal hraining   meged hua th Misy of Educaton.
IeO    lo     IM      1017    Ion    im        1990    161
GOP DEFLATOR (1960-100)              100    142   141        163    101    176       266    37
GDPDEFLATOR(1905-100)                        100    93       107    114    124       U11    267



ALGERIA                                                   ANNEX 1
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT                                  Table 3
MEN Recurrent Budget by Chapter for the years 1985-1989 a/
_  ercentage Distribution
CHAPTERS             1985       1986       1987      1988       1989      1985   1988   1987   1988  1989
Nominal (in thousands of DA)
I. Salaries                  8,460,867  9,722,480  13,669,507  15,065,559  15,671,158    79.16  76.06  87.62  88.05  87.41
II. Pensions & Allocations     75,000     75,000     30,000    30,000     80,000     0.70   0.59   0.19   0.18   0.45
III.Social Costs              281,891    356,975    132.462    254,266    359,876    2.64   2.79   0.85   1.49   2.01
IV. Materials and Oper subsid  76,357     76,163     54,156    30,834     38,519     0.71   0.60   0.35   0.18   0.21
V. Maintenance                  5,800      5,800      5,650     1,200      1,500     0.05   0.05   0.04   0.01   0.01
VI. Operating subsidies       725,720    758,925    703,639    777,159   1,057,824   6.79   5.94   4.51   4.54   5.90
VII.Exam Organisation Costs.   13,500     15,800     13,500    96,000     96,000     0.13   0.12   0.09   0.56   0.54
VIII.Extra-*urricular           9,100     22,300     18,000    18,000     16,000     0.09   0.17   0.12   0.11   0.09
IX Scholarships etc.         1,039,310  1,171,488    972,700    837,500    607,274   9.72   9.16   6.24   4.89   3.39
X. School Health Conditions       410       472        472        472                0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Xi. Standard Fees                        577,000                                     0.00   4.51   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total                       10,687,955  12,782,403  15,600,086  17,110,990  17,928,151   100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
[GDP deflator 1985-100                        99        107       114        124 |
Ave Gr Rt
1. Salaries                  8,460,867  9,784,120  12,746,650  13,273,620  12,647,210    10.57
II. Pensions & Allocations     75,000     75,475     27,975    26,432     64,563    -3.68
IlI.Social Costs              281,891    359,238    123,519    224,023    290,433    0.75
IV. Materials and Oper subsidies  76,357  76,646     50,500    27,167     31,086   -20.12
V. Maintenance                  5,800      5,837      5,269     1,057      1,211   -32.41
VI. Operating subsidies       725,720    763,737    656,135    684,722    853,703    4.14
VII.Exam Organisation Costs.   13,500     15,900     12,589    84,581     77,476    54.78
VIII.Extra-curricular           9,100     22,441     16,785    15,859     12,913     9.14
IX Scholarships etc.         1,039,310   1,178,915    907,031    737,885    490,093   -17.13
X. School Health Conditions       410       475        440        416         0
Xi. Standard Fees                        580,658         0          0         0
Total                       10,687,955  12,863,443  14,546,891  15,075,762  14,468,688  7.87
Source: Ministry of Education (MEN), Algiers, 1992



ALGERIA                                                  ANNEX 1
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT                                   Table 4
School age group population projections by single age 1985-2000
(000)
Age               Males                                 Females                                 Total
1985     1990  |  1995      2000      1985      1990     1995      2000      1985     1990      1995  |2000
6      343       403      431       523       326      374       418       505      669       778      848      1028
7      332       389      421       505       317       364      409       489      649       753      830       994
8      323       376       412      488       308       354      400       472      631       730      812       961
9      315       364       403      472       299       344      391       457      614       709      795       928
10      307       352       408      441       291       334      379       427      599       686      787       868
11      300       341       401      429       284       324      373       416      584       665      774       845
Tot 6-11      1921     2226      2478      2858     1825      2095     2369      2766      3746     4320      4847     5624
12      292       331       388      420       276      315       362       407      568       646      750       827
13      284       321       375      411       268       306      353       399      552       628      727       810
14      276       313       363      402       260       298      343       390      536       611      706       792
Tot 12-14      853      965      1125      1233      804       919     1058      1197      1657     1885      2183     2430
Tot 6-14     2773      3191      3603     4091      2629      3014     3427      3963     5402      6205      7030     8054
15      268       306       350      407       252      290       333       378      520       596      683       784
16      259       298       339      400       244      282       323       371      504       580      662       771
17      251       290       329      386       236      274       314       361      487       565      642       747
Tot15-17      777       894      1018      1192      733       846      969      1110      1511     1741      1987     2302
Tot 6-17     3551      4085      4621     5283      3362      3860     4396      5073     6913      7945      9017    10356
18      242       282       319      373       228      266       305       351      470       548      624       723
19      233       274       311      360       220      258       296       341      452       532      607       702
20      224       265       303      348       211       251      288       331      435       516       591      679
21      214       257       296      336       202       242      280       321      416       499      576       657
22      205       248       288      326       193       234      272       311      398       482      560       637
23      195       239       279      317       184       226      264       302      379       465      543       619
24      185       230       271      308       174       217      256       294      359       448      527       602
Tot 18-24     1498     1794      2067      2368     1411      1695     1961      2251      2909     3489      4028     4619
Tot 6-24      5049     5880      6688      7651     4773      5555     6357      7324      9822    11435    13045    14975
Source: World Bank projecions 1992 and OfiMce Natonal des Statsdlques (ONS), Alera



ANNEX 1
AlwW: Badi and s_conday educadon mappt prolac                                                        TaWS 5
Puis Nid TeaclIe _ends 19M --1001192 hI Baie cnd 8o_idy Ebbcnon lb
Pupil enrolmefts:                        165-,1                                 19847                                   166743
k11       Imae    %maje                 tal       fema        female          total      bmale      % fmale
1+2 cyce (grade1                3.4112    1,516,157     43.6%           3.65.332  1.566,465    44.0%           3.801.61  1.662.614     44.3%
3 cycl (grade 7-o               1.3,110  5a7,8sM        41,3%           1.472.146    60,404    40.7%            1,490.863   604,6es    40.6%
Pupls lol Basi (ade 1-4         4.81.178  2.0e1312     42.3%           5.10777  2.193.022     43.0%           6.232.514  2.287.11     43.2%
P"ap Sec. Gen. (gr. 10-12)        366,616    169,614    44.8%            406,008    lU,m6      48.1%             463,700   222.817     4.I%
Pupilse Sc. Techn. (gr. 10-12)    66.88      20.072     30.0%             0,.300     30.302    30.9%             128.063   326.07      31.2%
Pupn  _a Secndar.                423.602    179.61,     42.4%            503306   M1AN         43.5%             69173    212.774      44.4%
KIP"ntalB&t                     6,304,11 21273.66       42.66           5,611.115  2,417120    431%, 6,14,227  2,40*0                  43.3
PunS enrdollnts:                          10334                                  10040                                   190041                                 1o1-12 Ia
tota      lmale     % lnmae            tota      bema       % female          total      fmale      % female          total      female     %mal
1+2 cyle (grade 1-              3,011,2    1,741,376   44.6%            4.027.612  1,706.783    44.7           4.19,162  1.8779000    44.3            4.367,352  1,s96,860    45.1
3cycle (grade 7-4               1,329.326   866.660     40.6%           1.408,622   673,318    41.1           ,1,423,310   602,653      41.6           1,400,036   620.324     42.2
Pupls oalBasc (rad 1.4          6,307,714  2,060836    43.5%            6.436,134  2.377,621    43.7           6,612,463  2,470.573     44.0           5.847.317  2A06.63      44.4
Pupas Se. Gen. (te. 1-12)        66.643   274,523       40.1%            688.76   231,661       49.6            680,094   303,060       10.6            646,720   321.516      49.7  Lo
PupNl Sec. Tcchn. (9r. 10-12)     166.423    4,352      30.s%            165.182    51,237      31.0             153,360    47.724     31.1              96,025    30,577      31.3
PWuisft   Secondry:              714111   322,175       46.2%            765.,47   842,76       45.5             752,264   20.774       466             742,746   252,008      47.4
Pupisfela B&t                   6,022,630  2,630,11     43.7%           6,110.061  2.720.40s    43.            6,n4.732  2,821*37       44.2           6,80132  2,84.776       44.7
_                                      Pupil - Taher ratloe-
Teachiar                         19656     106517   1917AJ  19639    196940   1000    199142 %a                1035136    193547   197/3    1S0384    19694      190091  19091492 
Teoace gre 1-6                    125.084    133.260  139,875  144,744    144,945    16162   164.6s5                 28         27       27        27        28        28        28
Teachwegrd7-0                     e0.663    66,375   74.031    76,703     70,7Ms    82,741    6.610                  23         21       20        13        1S        17        17
Tcta Tohagu grd 14                185,67    2121   213.906  221.447   224,723    234,003  241,206
Teache Sa. Ga.                     19.302    23.067   26.707   31.710     35.066     38,145   39,081                 18         18       17        18        17        16        17
Tehers Sc. Tachn.                   2.163     3,181     4,350    5,313     5,33       6,13S    5.641                 31         31       Re        20        25        25        17
Tot Teaobem Se6ondwy               R1."6    26,223    31.067   87.2       40239      44,23    44,622                 20    0   10        10        19        13        17        17
TdalTeacmgrad.1-12t               2072R    23,6    244,0    263,470 2n65.67    m27.2     26.017
a h 106143 bc  newseondayrefm cesaad  coonrtyearw( (nc ommun) oseonday. Pupil and tacher o lis common fis yea (AS)
we nd hicuded anymor I the secondary enrdmomn  Adica
lb MisU y ofedu_eon  Donnee Staadlques SodaI"e, 190341. A e. Algia



- -                                                         ---- --                                                        ---                                                        ----
-- --                                                        -
'VPOBIV'siolDfv:(zmt)uoltoonpajoAjplulvt v%
EwNt- NT la NBUFT W7 awt-igrt- iwj-A iwc-t MDI
We'tt9ct -, tuolot 99 OWN L00'a get .. . - 3NVZrl3U8V
... :.:.:.:...,..---: .:.:.:.:. :,: -:-,::: -........- ......
--, ''.,,...-!:I , ,", """""' , - .:.:.:.:.:.:.:.,,- :.-:: '. , ":' , -'-..:,... .........."'...... .......
",. " ,,,,,, ", ... -..,.. : ".. ,.: :- , ,........
...... .. ..... ...:. .-
..-- ,,-,,.,,, , , ,,-,, .. -I:: : -- - -
:.,. ... - ... .. .....-- '-'.". -,.. . ..., . I.
....--%":-'-'-" -'-: --,.. ....,- :-11.- .. "'
.: -,-,-*,.,, .:" ,:...
-:. ..
'',
-.... .. .. ----.
.... .1--..:, .-.%. -..: ... -......:.:.:.:.:
-.....!-..--.i --ii:, ... -'il,.':' ... .......Iwi201,
- --...`,-X-if i: ... ,.,... .... -,-.- -.-..-,:.---:.-:--.-::: .........
...... ,,.--R-,.-* -, i. 3 ---Oi:-iii.t ,,,i:ii.i6",,,`:,:,:,:,...,
11,11-II-1--l"I, -,111 ",".."" "", """. """'""::
.:%.:.:... - .. --1--1.-.--1-,-,,,,--------- .... -::.,.. ... ---- - - --,.............,:'.. ....
. .. . ..... .. . .
IBM - M, .".".0, .I,--,-,, I..."..'..' ..'.."...'..."..'....'.--'.,-..', -.'.,.-.'...,"......"..."'.........-..'..,.."",...."I -.1, .. . ,
.. .........
.. . ...... ..... 0-:-, -..-.",.,.,...:::-,.".,.....,...- ...... .-............ ;-,---.. ........I., .... . .... ---:
.. O....
X. . . ...... .. -,-,.I,M,:% -,,-,. s.-,I,I-,.-., wm.....,........Ot......".".............-.'. ...."., :,., .,..;..,: ... ......:.:...:.:.-.:.,..X.-.
.. . ...........-. .- ...... ................. ...
M'taLM'" ...... ot-ogo'Lt ati'L I., etI.. :: . .iN3HpnOv43i v ot
.-.1- -1;- I -1---:-x--- :.-,:---1---,--,-:1-,1: .."."I". : :.. ..::...:,.....:::::....:.:,...:::..,:.... .- ......... .w
.., : :.. ,-:,. :,.. I
,-, ,,, ,"'-:, ,, ,, ,%, ,.,':::,,,. ............
.                  . .                                  :......                                                                                                                                                                            ,            :       ..    ....:                                                          .-,..,                                  ::.....,:                                                      -... -:-  :,, -,
.., ---- "', - "'' :: ::.:, .: - ...-.i..", .:
;"""'"'---"-'- "."'."" ".",... ,'.'.'.',,-,--1-1: ,,: -"; - -.,.::-,  . .:,:---..-,..:.., ,:  .
..- -. .- .. :. ... .. : ,  -  - : .;- :::::
-,-- -. .:.::.,. -..
, ,-::..: %..:.. .....:.:.:,
.. -....'...... .. ---------,------ --, ---- ..,-.-. ....-:1, - -......". ----------, -:%,.:.,. -..--,..... .:,: ,::.::.. .:i:,,:: - ..........X
..,.
I ... .... .. -,.- .. --, .. .. :::::: : :..
.
.:::. ... .... .... .- .. ....- ......... --------.--- :--- ... .......N......... .: ...,.., .,"-.::: . x... :.:. ,:.:,,:.
,.-..--'-'..---.'.--'.,"., - -, ,::: ..'.--" ..". - ....'..'.. .."'..:? -,-,,--: ":," "., a I.M.
.... ....
,:, ": `, ""I"', :"' "' .1 -, ..,. ....
.. - ..'.............. .0 .. .... .,, .'. .., .., ..".." ...."i-, -  - `- ..-"!'. ..., .-....'...,..'.,....'..-"..'O.."."."W'.'%..- ----.,.-,--,:,-,.-.--,-,,-:::: ... :r-11I .......". i .. . . ,f. ..-.-. . .. -7:,..., , ..
-.- : , . . ...". .... ...:%:1.-i. .., ., . . . ., .-. %..... I.I..'I'l--. .."...'...'....'l..'.'.......'.'....."...', "',,, ,.:....... --,
ott'ttI"owoe"ne'Le LotIg Ice a NIV "
.i ...: .. ... ................................... . ..... ..... :..'._.- ---
.:: :.: L. . . .:. ..
. . .. . . . ..-.':, . -,:::%.::.:;: ,: ; ,, - :: ,, : : ,  ; ;:% : :,
,X,. .1..... . .-, I ...... --, ,, ,::
"' I",-,-, ,,-:- ..-. .I
Ki..., ,-:--- -.-,--.......-,, :: %. . .-,
,,,,, ,. . .,%...:: ...,:
,,., '. --%,,
,:.. 1,-. . . ....,... : .:P..
.:-:,::... ::::: ; ::, ,-- -.
.11 , ,:.-, .-.'-,:: ,..,%. . ..,..,: : .::.,, M ,..:..:::.%:.:.:.X,: :.!.:,!-: . : : : : :.:. . .. 1. .,q
"' """""" , ..."'. , , -, .,I-C."', .. -...,.%-,., .. ,.,, . .. .:,.. ,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,, ,,,, ,.,, ,,, " -,,,,,,,,,,, , , ,,,, .:: ,,,,:, ,,,.::: :: : , : ,,,-.-ii:: ,.,:i;::.---  , i:i:-,,,:-.  -------,.-,*.:
-..:,.. : ,:. . ....:,..'
.
..
-.. ... .. -.1-1 .,.-..,. -:1, .", ", ..": ,., ,: .1: ..".. "'.-W.- . . .........III, I I I I """""' "I ,.. -I. . ..--1--,----,--,----,----,, ... - ..,:::,- ...." ,,,,:GO.-M -, ,,, - :--,.-,--,,,-,-,,,.,,,-,. . . . . .::...,.....,... CO
- .. ... ... - - - ,.-..-- ---- - - .--.. - ---- -... .... .... ...
-- -- -- -- .. - -, -:, .:
.......I. . . . ........".".-'I".. .. .-.. .." - -, ....I
14"U............. .,.,...'. .N.. ."...I.I..'i"....,,ii, .,1-,.-,.-,-%. :.,.N. , ii"........"..'--iI, -.---,--1%..:,......'i-s-N.O....."', .:".,. N", .:
ac'et9aI90,2Vu921LIM gao,cen VzvdLL at
... ... .".I.."I ,.- ...: , "-'-  -, .: .., .. ,.....'....., ,1,-,,.,.,. k.........'.....,:-.......,-...,.-...............?.....- ... ....... ::..........................,...........,........:-,-.....,., ..........W. ........-...................- , .. : :-: :: tj
1. , ,.,.,'.
,
.,-,,.':%' ...---..-%. ...
.. 40 ::', " %,  :.,-.,-,.-::.i:::,: -,.---:*X]-.: , ,
... -; ,: %:- --, -:.... .., 11 ..:.:, :: %..::..:,.
.: I, ..,.. .,::",. ...:.!:.. .::-. - - -....:-. ...
.%:, --1: -;:: .- .. - .. ,.:..: ;:: ;:::::,
--- , .. -- .. ",.: -.. ... ::::",. 1: .... ... ...,;. X..X, -.Xo:X, . ...........
:. .% - .,...,. %,L..: ...".. -.,,, .., .,;:::.,.,.",, ".."."..', -,-., ,-1. .. .::,,.....-..,.--:.X.
., -,,, :.1 "::: :: , " w'. :: !, , , ",:% : , ,::::
%,i..:,-.-.,. -,., -, , ,.,.,. -,,:, ".....'....:!.; .: ,: ..: .. 1.
,
:.... . ..... ...........................,. .-%, *"t*,- "",
,-,.:
.,- ,,,.,.,., ,.,-,,.:i ..........'. X, ..". .:..,. -,- . 00 ,.,...
,... ....:.1 : : :::
-.-..- .: *..... ... .. ............. - ..,.
-.... .. : .. - .. -.- ......
:........... I. ......W.....:i
...i..... ijift,
..... .. , I... ..
...1,.........,
, ,
,'
IR. .,.,.,.":......4 ...,-.. . .,. .I....
#6 ", : :"me ... ... . .... .......I... .'. ...
, ,W., : ,..
Oet'LIIftolg 9c ZZ&V tas gia V13HOMM Ot
....:: .........,.............,:............ ........,..........................: ....... ......1--, ..... .. . ... .. : .
:......... ....-,.. ... ...
:.,.,       .,.,..,:.L.,]  :.,-*4   i  ..               :..                                                       '.    ..         ..:      ...:                                              -    ..                                                                                                           .    ...        ...                                   "    .. I ...                            v  -  -.--,  -i-. ..,                                             --   ---i ..  :-.....  ..  .
:.. ..... -, :. ..: ::'......, , -,.. ,.'.,",:....... ..... . ..::::= ... ...,.:::
.1. "',,:  :,,, " %-1,
,"'-,-, --,- . .....Ia.--- 7 -:, - %::;..
-. ..,..- .. ;.X.. ...i....... 1,..- - - 'T.n X -.1 -:::-,-::::--;-:::,.-:::-:-
,.. -,,,.,?- :: ..... .-: .. -F-11.,-.:"1: .. -I.,."...'% -.. -1 - % -...% .,:X:::,- ,..:.:
"I ..... ....,- , -, ,"' . ...... . ..i,,.,::,i,,,, ,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,- -
...-:,.,,,.,,,,.,,.,.,.,,,.. .."- 'U., .. .....
.. ...%-,:X...-.,-..,.-.:-'..'.:.-'..::,,'...-..:,...
.- .-,. ""' ,I..,I-,,, ": ,,,: iw
,..: .... ..... - ... -.... ....... . ... : 11:..
..:: .. -""":""."",""""""", ..... ..... . ...... I....... . . ......... :,: - .::%..::: -
.,-.. ...... ::..... ` -:-:M-....... . ...: ...I-....... ...i
,,.- .%.:.I. ." ..... ......;.:*-11 :11:1.. "', ...-.".,: .1:1.'.......-.:.:. .: ....:.:.L..:
;, :-,.--.- "..  :-,.,.-.,, -, .,:..: ... %,...... .. -I., -..% .. I ;- -11.-F; ..
.., .1 L..... - .. ,.,i ----`I,........ '... ... .", .....:..... 14".... ..-...'M wo
.....M.....'...i. ..... -, -,--........ .,W.
.. ......... ... . ....x,%:: .
-1 ... ..."i'i" .:-.." ... ....I.. i . ..
.. I.II..,... ... ...-.
M.9tLom'gtaM,gw WN 031 illarimil et
::': "., ...: -, :,,, ,,, --.-.:.".................%......,.: , --.-.-.,"""'--,;.-.*- ---------- W-:,....-.-:---:
.. ............................ -- ::
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..,.,,,""" """'I:I'll  1, -I ""
,-, ", .., , ,,,,,,,,,,, ................, -, -,,.. .
.. ... ,..: .. -.-.-.,..,--., ":--.,.--.--.*.,---:,-, :.:.'..,.....,::.i.:.i:.",%,:.. ,.::,-.,, . . ...
.*.............*..... - --,.. .
...... -... . .....
-
::"., i.. ..-
...", - ....." - ......,..0 .-.....,,-..,,."-..,,.-.-...-.."...-:1--l...'.--.'.-...'........-.,:.- - - -::: -, "'...'..","I": -1. .."'.."..."I".., .. ,:",.,,:,:.:,:-..
." .--'.-" .. --,-..... ... ?. ... ..,".'.."....". I-..... :', .-.'- iww---- .-... -.." ... " ' "'.'  . 
, ..--. -, ...:-. ...... .........11--.1%. ..'.'.': - 'L:... : :.:.:: " .  ..'. ..'.  . ''.
...'... .. ......,--. . . . . ........ : -.-En ..,.,:,...,:.',' '. :. X.- ..::: :: .-.:" : -I.......... -..-..
ii W.......... .."'..."., .... - .... . ........ . .% ,... ..-..., ..
'... .. :....... : ... Ii-,- ...-... --, ..,... ..... . .. ...-..... ... -............... ...:.:x..,::-:-:: :::.
.... ..............-... : M---J.----,-, I.: .,... .:.. ...... - ".. .. :,.::: .., ,,..:::::: :.: , I ---- 1511MA
.,.. . I*.. -,:,-:---:.----.---.--,---... x.-:..,:,. ,....:: -...:. 1.:-.-.--.
. .:,. ;...... .. . ... .:.:.:.:,:.:.. ....., 1-1....0,... I...
ozzlot8OL "LlogaOu'" "Mll tilt .MVI-18 GE
X.: !.,.,:,.:,.".,.,.i.-......I ......... ...... ............ .%.-
:,.. -,.... -, --.......... .......,... ..%... ....,.,:,..' :- X.................... .. .. I -:. : -... -- ... A. ....  -  .. .. .
:. .. ..::-: .: .... ... ,....-,*:.- .. .%. ., . .:.,: ....-. -
..-.. --...--- - ,. --: . ... :.. ......
-1- .......I.. .1. ,.. ........ . I,
....,..
... .%:,. ....,.:....
.......'... .1-:::.:. : -
.. ..: .: `%, .... .. --- .:,-. .. :.,...'. ::: ..... .::, 2: ,',: ....: '.- %.-.
.. '...:I...::: -,-.
"x%, 1..%, , :,x.." -... .:.::..,..:..: ':' . . .. - - .. -....... ......
.... ....-.....,-.-.., .., ....... .... -'...'.-.. L-, ..'.. :..-
*."' ::: ... .1-,-1 11'..'.. -:-....,.. ... .-:. 11'.."..........'.. ..........
.- MM-T". .... "......".., :......-."j..'.'..'..",.
, , " """""' """'                          .... W             ...:   ..... .,..   -
:?.... .. -... ......
:.W. ........,.. --  i ,':
.1,....!....... .. ..L.
I... ........I,.Mi!M 08 9c
.- ... :...,.. .. ,.... ...... I -.-.-....-. ... V.................
,MV101tI tstela Lt MIG wellMrOrd3Wvv'G'8 Vs
.... ''... M, ",-- --
,. ..,.
....:::..:...: .........
..,:........ ..:.:.,.. , ,..
.. "...'i, 1,1.,.1-, : %.-........,.jiw::...-,.-.".-.".-.,"-..., ii.11"... ,.-.i,,:i.,--,.,--,-:i::: .,.. .. ,:...::'-.,... -... ---'::':.i'. ...
..-,,: ,:...:: ..,.:::: .. -11 ", ,-,.,- --.-.-..-....,.: L..-......:.:.:.:.::.:.-.:.-.-.:..-.:.:.:.:.:.::.:.:..,::: ,. :.. . .. V,pp I ,::: I.: -1::X-...
.... .. -.....:................'..'.... .. .. ... .. . ... ... , ...,x..:::::..... .,
,.:."::". ::v.:rf-': ....... ;:::....::::::::..,::.::::::::::::::..... I.....I
.,...... ". .. . ....
..- ....-: . :%, ..:. :.;.%:.:x.:.% ..... ;:.:.:%-.-..
'I,, -:%, "... ",". .,::,.".:% ... :: - ---.- ...'..'
:1 ......:.::,$. ::::'::'.'L.: :-j(::::: ' :L "'."'."..:...]...]::...::,i...::i:::.i.i......::.i..'%.
i,.                                                                  .,:   .."'..."..".,                            .I    ...:.:;."  .1                   :::..                                                                                                             .:       ,.'.                                  :.:.         :-:-.-.,.,. ...,:-,%:..                                           ....,             .::'-.    .:.'.       -  .:.: -       I....:
..::::: ,. ,.:. : . .,:: :.,
..,.-,-,...,... ...., -, ::..'.' ,..:: : "......".. -, ...... ..., .... -..-.-, -- .--: .. I " - I " ",:,:,:,:,:,
. .,--,-- :".....--.:: ,: ::,
.. .. ...-.. ...,.... . .
.. .. ..,-.. .....-
.*...........'.... .:::. ....'... .... ...-......- ,.  ----...... -,---,-1,-,--,-----1--1----,--:-----
. ...... .......'. ... . ... X. I ",
,,..: ... ... .. . ,... ,O ... . .:.
.,,. .M..... - ...:...........
.... :. .."I:::.:.", ......:... ..... .:. _.1, - .....:....: *.....W......::..... I.W."I"i'l." ........ I.."".'. :.:.
.... . %.,.: ., , I .:.:: . .... .:::. ........ ------'---'-JMtss
M..,.......:.-,.-.. ............ .L 'I
909M tIFB "C'm "U .". H(NAVG-'M ZE
........ .....,..-.
., ,.1- ,,...'
...:. ... .I .... ... :::;- I  .. ..
-, ".", -.%: k.-,-.,:,:, "., 'r ..... .
,"'..''..: ,... :%: ...:.... -- .....:. .... .. . .:. :..:: ,.,:::,.,,::::::,.,,-:: ..:::: ................
. .-...... ... -
,:-.'. ,..:.., ........, .,:..,i ..:,.. ... .. :':,
...-- -I...... I ,-- :,-::-..-.X :;':-., ": :: 
,..".:x., - -X, ., .'.,'..,",:: ..,
-..... : ,. ,:: %...: ...;, ,......, ...
....."I., , - , """" " , ""' "-.,, ,
...... - -::- . .... . ,  ..... :.:,:.:.:.-.:-.:..-
.. .- ...--... :.... .. .. -:-:"::: ..:
...--.,..., - -S:,, ,',-,:: - --:.....:.-.,-:,,,%,,-: ,X.
,.:..... . .."'. ... -:1 .-.,,-....1.1" .. :%";... .11 ..... .. ..:--:. -:,,. I. ,,.:-:, 1.,,.:........
... ....-. -...-% - .:'.'.:M,
,:.- ,...:. ..: ,I.. .: -::: :::.. .........,,-,.-ii,
-%..-.....,::::,. L.: .. . '
...;-, -.-.-,..-.. :.: ... . ....
.% %:... ..., -, ..:. .- -,1.:1:,..--,-1.-..- -.-..... ....., i:i.. ...
.- -.. - -I ...... .1.I.-..,.-.-:-.-.I-.I --....:-,.... ..",:.: .1 "I""" "W ..1,.,..,.,.,..-'. .. ....  i,:
:...
....."...", .:.:...:.: -'r ":, ...
. ...... , ,.:.. .... ... a J"", -
.... I I.....
.... .. - I- -. ..
iiiiii** ""' " " """" I ", ... ..... :,.,..,. -%:.' :'':' ":::: - ":::..':':":-,:;-:,:.:.:.".:.:.:.'_.'.:...'."-L
--, .....-...... ;-
,......
., ..-
. ... .
,: ",""', " ", i,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,._L
U.N.i...
- ......-O -...-.
... I .- - ... ..... ...... I - I... . ..U.....:
.. ........----- ...- M' , , , "" "" """""" " """' I:,.,:: -'
-....... ;,-,-
I... . ..... ........... .... .... .nt WUO M
MOc$4 SK'a09"'OL_MI viewy 0
ii)"O..............................,.........................,..,.,.........,..... .............................................................i. .... .. . ... ...... :. , ,-..........'......,............,:"..,.,: .....'..'........'.........:,.",- :-X '......'...'.'.'.'.."'.".......L L
......-I ,:::-:.,.:.:,:.: :..:.:..,.:1:,,,y'...'.!" at
... ..: . .. :--,: .%::::.... ,. ..
.. P.......... -,.....................-.......: ... -.-.....:... -...: .-..i"... -, -" .- , , --, ", --%-I.. ..
.,. ... ::,.,I.. . :-.-. X. ..::I
,,.. ...... .. .... ..
-.,'...", _ .,-'
.. . .: .r.,
. ...:.. .:.:.:.. _....L
j:' .. .... . ..1....I-,.1 ... .:::..: ,::::,:,:7 .,:.,::::: ", :::::::::::..-:-.-,
-...... 1....,....,.,..%.. %._W.
"M .1 . .. .-.M... ..... .. ::::: --.
... .. ... . .. ..-: ..; ..-.-:
.. . .I
.. ,
K`--,.,--
--..
---.-.,--. ..., ..., - ... i  ..., ..." -, . 
.
. .- ... i: i:
.- .. ::
..
.... ...-- -.
..--... .. ..--. ... ..
.....-- ... - -* --,---, 000,00", ..."i.,I.
..." ..,:x. .:...... W... ... ... ..,.,.P."
... .. ..
cm.a9Oa 0911C la 918'eat M,9Mviis.n ea
... .:..,.:..... ....... I .
:..i"--.-.-.,-.-..,-.-.-..-.-.-.-.-.--.-.-.-.-.-.-.- ..... - ,: .,..'....,....",.,..""..,..,":..... .1'... :j.-.%-, .......,... ,..,....,.....".....'.......'......'...........,:. ,::.,:-:-:-:-:--,, -""'...;:.,
.. .. .......... -,-- - ....... ....... ": -.: ...... ''',
.... -... .1-.%., .,::
"'
. .... ... .... ... -, ..", , , " -': ....
----;--O ...... ..... I - .. -:...,... .. '... ....... . ... ...::,.
..:... :::-.,---,.--.,--.-.,.- --.,.-,-:- .. :..,:,. .:..:..,.: . ,:.
... .,.-.: "I:, ..,...% -:1,: ,,.,..::::::"; ,--
:j "'::.. ... ...,-1 .,
..::.R. .., .. "'.'.'-."'-"-"".-'--".-"-".-.z X". ""' -""""""' , ,-.... , .,- ""'' "', ":,- - - - - : )#0#*#.p
...                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..                   ,.
,...
,: ... ..:.: :: .-
.I'll-," -1,": :::."' ""' """ "' , "I"..", ", ",;i,:,:,:,:,:,,:",:":.....-.- - --: .. ..--,..-.--. - .. ---:.:
.... -.1--....... ..... .... ............:1 "' -
.....
... , . .". .. ... ...
-- ... .. --,. ........ .. .. - ...... --1 -,
 R..  . ...,.,, ... ..-'..--. ...... ...,.-I........- ...... .... - --------*- W%--... ..... ...,....i.
...r.--,.. .., --,.,---,---,. ...... .. ... .. -Iik .1--# ......,".... ..,.,. u
...... ., ... ...... .... ......... I ...... x... .% -?-.-.-.,....,.
:1 M., IMAN ::,... ........ 1.0..... .:*." .N.I.M.-Iiii.".....
M,91tOL gL9,9c 09 8"'M sit'a gm
-1: ... ........... .. ..... . ...,----,;----iw,- :--:-- v3a3n
..:. "I" "'."".11,1-1-1-1 'I-,-,-,' .-...I "I"I"I""..". "" -:,1:1,,-1,:-.,-1,1 '....."....., ..... "'..", "', ..."x"..... ,-,,1,,,-,:,-1--..- ".. ... %x x........ .
---- ....-..-,......-,............-...-.,..-...-..- - "-1- - -,*---,,-.1 -.1, .. - .. --,---1,-1,:-- -, --.1 :: .. ......-..... .".. ......." ." -, -, -.1 .."', .I.,-,.' .1.1 -, - ,,--,,:."........,-:..-..%.
.. - I.-i-i-i-xi......"... --- .......... ..,-.. .. .. ...... ... - -.......-- .... -,..-.. ..... ... .. - I .... ....'.. :: .,-. --.-: 1. - I .,.:.:.:...:.:: .... .....
;iW*M...... ,.,......,....-.......'..,.I...-....".,..'...'.,.,.- .-I. .".1"."....".I.... W..."I.O." ....., ....'11-1, ...... , ........ ....-...'......".1 W."01,11 vill'i"ti..., ..,.'.' .. .. .'.."..-.'.,.".".'.'*'.".'.......*..'.'...".......'.... -:11, -1 - ,- .-- -
11 :. : ..,:'I". : :::,
...-.1....... ,.::.
.
......,...%....; .. ...-.:,:,:::,:::: ,., ::::.,:I.
:...... .-,:: ..... .......
... -- - %..::..
I. : , ..... ..,. ... . .... ,.. .'-.:.:'.'::.,..:. ..,. jk
91913L .."...- , ....:::..,:,. 1w ... O.A.....049
.......9at aWtv ot VOLVO laV& sit VW3ne tz
........ .......................,......"""', "'. , "'' , ,
:-......I..,....
I I 11 :: .... . -,-,
.: ;, ... E., -:--,-.-----.,.-,i.".-" .: .. ..
,"'
,: .....I....,
-I... ....
-,.."'w....-.....:.1:....
.." -i... .....'...... .1.---.---.,- .........I.I.I............,  ,,,, ..:,.".: ... .... ..
OI.: X................. :....-...I..: ..:...,
Ow .., .... .... "::..,:,:,.,.. -:, ,.:..: -:-.,,:-,:-.-.-,-.-.
.. . ...... M. - ..... - :.",: ..". -,- .,'.,
9-.......,. :. WL
"'OW""""""-.".'....--'.-.......,....".....',-...................--..-..,......-.-- .... ...,r,..-.,.,..--'. ..'-..".,.".:".."",.".,,.'....'...'-,'-.'-...'......."..'..'...: ,-,- oo,.,....-.....'e'......:....,.."... ,.--* ..., ::: I, ""' "--, ... .:: ............ .. x.,...., -%4:%.,-,.,---,:-... ..:..., ..., ........ ......--,
... ...... ..
-. -,-. ..1 ........- .. ., - -
.
... ................ ..-,........ W .."'.....-... - ---- ..-.....:: ...... vx-,:: ..-,.....:.-...-.'...'...-:.-.-.....i-'.:-..-.'--'.- VWN CZ.]
. *W
%,..a .. . ...'.'.,.. I..1 ...
.. I.... .....
018,14 .1..I.................. ,:w'....... , :::.. ,. ..::::: .:.. --.......
ft M'ttMtts"08 M t.....M, ,.-- GHd ,ii
.....'....
:-,--- .... -- - ".'.' -
: -"...".., "' -- i:11"..."'.1, ..".."...", ----, .... "'' ": ...
... ""' .... ..... .. I I. .. ,-
::: ...  ".......;.... -,---,, ::: ::-,--:.-, - .:. :- :: :.; : .' ':' ::-. L.:
""""
.- -... 11 .. .... -%, ".":.. ;::. ... .%,:,.:::: -:,
..... - -,.,--
.::., -,-.%1:--:::,..::::., .......... ......-...
.. -'........ ......-.,.....:---` ..:... X: ..: ..: :; ..-.'..!:.'-.'...-....-..-..-- ...
...I.. .. ......... -1 I,-"',' - -,".;. .:,
...
..... ,-:--..,1-1-M*W .. .....--.--.,-.-.::-..-.,: .... .. . - i'l :::
wwmulimmmswummtww.'..."Mkm:.--.----...-..-..."......-.,-.-.-.-.-..-...- I.,.......)w ----,.---,----1,-,- .. ..,. , ..,.,i. Jr
.,.... . ..
.. I .... .. .. .....-.......-...
C"'ocIM,011 Ill 94wgt T"It 9LIt .. *W*
." ............... -'...................... ..'..... I ..., ......".% ...:... . ... ... ...... W............., ...... .. .... ... .. ... vain Oa
.. .... .... .... ......... . ....... ... , - ... ::.,%:..,. .. - ..,...... -,'.: .......... .,.,-.,.,.::.-.:i.,.,.::.!: ..:."...:......:":.:-.'.:::.,.:.......:.:..::..:.
,,"   L...                                         ..,..           .       :..   .....                  ,.:                                    .  .... . .o.                  ..                                                                                              ...::.   ..                                                                                                                        .....       :   :   .::- :..   ..  -,",  ,  ,"...   , ....:.......  ..... :.:.:,.,,:::  .."  "
.- ,"' - !::::
1. . : ....-- - :- , - .:
,,-,:- ..: ".., :... --: ..:.:.::",:.:.:.:.,.:..:..i.-i-,.: ,:-::'......X" :'
-, " "'-"-,: -,,--- ,-,-* .,,..::. -,%-
..:;; - "' . -.. ..,---.,---.,,--- nx-.- -,"".........'....- -, "%::: :,*.. , ..,
I...... .1:..:::...:.. ..,-W,.-I.:: I % .., -, '.'.:: .:--.
.
-            ...                                                  ,,
...... .----.----.---..-'.". :.....
.., ..I-:..-.....
-,,- x,"  ;:,:":, , .,,, ::: , " :.
------,.,--,x,,-.--,.,,. :.,3.-... .",.... . ..... ...
... .........i... F-:-:: .. .:......, ,-,.,,.-,.-,,,,, .... ,.-.-.-.-,...,..,-'..-'.'.-"...::":".::........,: X..%:.- ..,.
,:"",... .,..,,.. ."..-,.: :--'... .7..:.%..:. .....,  Aiatot.
e:.......... . ,,.......... : .:
..... "."". -,-t'":,:,:,:,:,:,7,:,::.:::,:",.. .. .... ...
...,x...........-..-vw.
., "...... - .,...:. ........ . ,..,.,. ,... ..... ..
."'. :'... .e. ..:. .. Ow. ... .. -.-. .. ..I........,.....,.L........................."....,....",:;.:.::::..,::.:.. ,.,
199,21cet gwa in On'" 'Lli't alt fir il
"'
,-.
...-.. ...:..,. .. %.
,"  ". 1:.... .... .::::: :..--, .. .. .. ::.::4:::.: .....
- - , %. -w ,,, :.... ..,. ......... .. ..... ... -, -.................... . .. -*... - ............
.... .. -,--,""', """',-...'... ... "",, ,:.,..,.... , ,. '... ... ...... I.: ,'..., ,.: ......'-` ' "', -":.'.':..::: " " " " : -': :  L"::,: --. ' L
.,:--:: - -,::: . ...... . .. . .. ..... ..... .... ; .-... . .. .-: .1 .:... ..
.,.. .... .. ..,: :1, """ ,,',, ...
... ..% :-,--.--.-.-.-,..,.,.I ...::::., I.:.-,----:-. -.....-....... ...... - .,..- - 
......... . :---- - ..:: .::.:.:.-::-,:-
.... - I:. -... .. ..-,. .,......:..
.. . ". ......: X - .;:,
...... ... ... .... :..., .,, -11.............1. ,.-I.-.1-.`-,,-. .: ....... ..: :: ' '. """' "' - "'''"LL , '''
"." ".. ...........: i, : -,--..... : :.. -.,::. .: .,::. ..
"' , -, ::-:: ,,, , "', ....... O" :,..:%.:.,:...: . "', . ....
..-... ........ .
.- ---.-, .,-. -,-:..........:... : .,,',,'-:.,.,.., "" """""',, -"'"""',,
........: .. .....:, .. ,
.... - - .....-. - -.-,.-.. ... -, "' `.
- .... ..., .... .., ..-..--., ......:-.,. .: ..... - - .. :: : --, -,; :.X.- :.::::
,
:-, ,,., -, ,- -,--
:....,..-...-..--- -,---,-,A- ------ .....---: ..., ...... ::::",....,:: ,:
...........M. --,.-,---, .... .. ....-.."?....... -.10.-.:", ". .:::
,. "..:.... ... .... .,".7,.:
,.......... *. .. . .
-. ..... .. . .... - .....I-I.- ..
......... io... . .-.. - ...I
,M:', 1---, .."e'..." '. "I"I..q..... ,.,...
....w
. .. ...... ...-...... ..
.... ...
,.......-I -- -..
..... .ax. .... - ... 1- .- -.1.,-
......... ....... 4.11.0'... ,r...... W..."..";." .-'...'. ''. '"..."' ::'vMO
toraL ot 99 M'Ctt tu 90'su W919 go W30W 9
.... .. ..... ... .... ... ......................... .........:: - ..
...-.. ......... ig ,.'.. ...., .. . . . .. ...................... %........... .. X. ..... .......:. ... . .. .................... ...... ..... .'. .. L 
.-:....."
..:.-"..,X..., ,...X
.I.. .... -1 .:;,
... --.. .....--:: ::j
.;... -,,;-,;-,, :....- ..-, !::..iii,;,..,.::.:::-.
.;...". ..I.. " --:. ,,.  ,-:.:.,.,. , ,.
,", , "
."% -:"'.. .. ".
.: :1.: ,:..: -,,,: -'. ". ...-
,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .        .::
- ,% .,.: -"" .., :: "' , - - zno-= 9
"..Z5..- ,..... .:. .. .. .:,.....
..:.. , -......--,---,-,.-,---,-,-, ,- -,---- .. .... ...... .... i..,, ,,...,:-, .,..,*,.: :'. ,-, : ,: :::
..... .. . .......--.. ------- .. . .  ...-,"'. , """""" """""" "'::
...... .. -.:-`;,,,,.... ....,,:
:. - -:... ..... .., -- --,--%
..... .:-. ....-........ .I .. - -, :::.. .-,. .... ....,
.......::.., .1.,.-1-.--,,-:-1,--.-MO . ..'t
,: ,,.,1,%,.,%."..:,:, .. :-.....! :.-..--'.'-'.-' :. ...%..::::.-'I... .. .--: ....
..::,:I . .,,.?- - I .. .., .., .. .,,..,.,., ......"..4"--.... . ,..".
..--,:: .... ...:.....,....:.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
Aloeria Basic and secondary education supDort Drolect
Growth rates In Basic and Secondary Education %a
Yea                                                Enrollment                           Teacher                               Schools
Basic educatlon (arade 1-6&:
i,:R..  .......                       .....:.... ..                ' Z 8                                 so
Growth rate 1980to 1985                                            2.29                                6.83                                3.40
A.¶ O9 to1'                                      . ..                                 .  . ' ..-...
Basic education (arade 7-9):
Growth rate 1980to 1985                                           11.71                               14.64                               10.47
S   i    R x     .....................    S':'svS   ,88  Z "    gi  $'   - ............. ...   .   .....   * , i, , .  x
Basic Education (arade 1-9):
x  S   w  .h.:. e S..:   R,, 89 .               8Z  :      S.o e                                                 ............................ ........:S::::::::
Growthratel980tol985                                               4.44                                8.95                                4.11
Secondary General Education:
4900 .   WP                                                                             .. RRRRR                            ...........
Growth rate 1980 to 1985                                          12.50                               12.80                              10.80
Secondarv Technical Education:
* S.... .   SRR RR sR RRRZSS ...   . ............  ..   ..   ... RRRSS S;'''''S"i-SR''
Growth rate 1980 to 1985                                          30.92                                  NA                               16.38
Secondarv Gen. & Tech. Education:
Growth rate 1980 to 1985                                          14.07                               15.20                               11.43
Total Basc and Secondarv education:
S  .SI4I)ept.' 1........   g              R    i; > tiRRfSSRSRg   8RX8R8XR 8Z 8R8R&900 R'RX" 80~  SR .   .............................................................................. ' ; S
Growth rate 1980to 1985                                            5.00                                9.50                                4.29
Wa Source: Ministry of Education (1991), Alciers, Aloeria



ALGERIE                                      Annex    p    1 of 2
MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION
ORGANIGRAMME: INSTfTUT PEDAGOGIOUE NATIONAL
DE LlON IT
SCIENTIOEU_                     IPN SU__CT DNORDENTATION
SECRETAIRE  |
GENERAL
SOURSDIRECT DES            SO1U8-DIREC TIN DE            SOUS RECTION DE LA           SOUSETRECTIONS
ETSTDES ET DE LA         U CONCEPTDIN DES                DOCUMENTATIS N            DE L' TION
RECHE OPEDAGOGIll           MOYENS DIDACTIQUES             ET DES PIMJCATIClOMS           GENERALE                      o
ETDE GEEAE            |     LU PFI)RAMATIN             |WREAU DES ACOU181TIONS   |    |BURAU DES PERSONNELS 
B UREAU DE LA REHRHE|U1                                    JREAU DES TPAIMENTS |        BUREAU DES FINGNES
SUR LES CURRICL ET L8     BREAU DE LAORATION                   ET AYS                 ET DE LA  TA E
SYSTMS DE FOPRAIATION                                        DOCUEtAIRES
| ENVAU DE VEWAIATION |I| BUREW DE lAUIOVISUEL          |UEA DES                         BUREAU DES
BUREAU                             CENTRE Dr    Er e
DES TECHNOLOCUA                            DOCUWM ATION
EDUCATIVE           .                   PEDAIQUES                                                   4



Annex  1
Table 8, page 2 of 2
ALGERIE
MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION
Institut P6dagogique (IPN)
Gestion et liens avec les Wilayate
(IPN)     soohdms (ONPS)                      ~~~~~(DOE)
C rdnlorgnsan hiom  do DliM          qu d n          |Is       Piu|                       fkeaional                       eoro
Cadres R6gkxmux
de bOmUbn des
cadX (CNR)                                                                  Cenlre 4&gnaux
(3)                                                                    de documdrotatqon
et de dfflusln
\~~~~~~~~~~ .P6daoques (3)
Inshb de           ~ ~~Cmrs d'etudes
Wchnogis de                et de docfnnd
r6&"m  inTE)                   P6dggp                                             Cenw crdbntition
(51 )                        (48)                                              poroe snetl
(OP) 44
seconKdates
Ardd 2 de rarrb  ktm*tr du 24 d6owr6re 1990 pofatt
inem de  1 Ddg   aol
Wq un       Cr     eti fbde dotM    pdates',
bKdWG4f



Annex I
ALGERIE                          anble 9
MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE
C.A.M.E.M.DA. 
NX1 [X1u
CM      ,         \        I-              ovp
b=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mmm
h~~~~~~~~~ooJu dvd   M lapduf
mu au PO                                MX
I             <    1 {:i1~~~~~~~AM.-MU
[v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vu4
.       =2                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A*l
C   ,fZ*XZZ ~~atP..R



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
National Institutes of the Ministry of Education.
1.        The MEN's national pedagogic support institutes provide strategic
support, develop curricula and staff training programs and monitor at national
level.   They maintain links with the schools through regional antennas and
wilaya-based centers  (CRF,  COSPs,  ITEs and CRPs).   The MEN's schoolbook
production and distribution agency (ONPS) and its procurement and maintenance
agency (CAMEMD) have local centers (CRP and CRDDP) in most wilayas to keep and
maintain supplies of pedagogic materials (equipment and schoolbooks). Each wilaya
has an Education Management Directorate (DVRHVI) which is responsible for all
education and training (this includes vocational training centers).   School
construction, maintenance, training of teachers and staff and school-monitoring
by local inspectors has all been delegated by the MEN to the wilaya authorities.
The MEN is currently undertaking an analysis of the functioning of the different
wilaya support structures in order to improve pedagogic support services and
cost-efficiency.
2.        National Pedagogic Institute (IPN).  IPN is responsible for pedagogic
research, monitoring and evaluating pedagogical quality (including the impact of
reforms), curriculum development and providing support to other sub-sector
institutes.  During the eighties the IPN has prepared and guided educational
reform (algerianization, introduction of arabic, installation of 9 years of basic
education). Until 1990, the IPN was also responsible for schoolbook printing and
distribution, but its production and distribution part became an independent
entity: the ONPS. In 1991 the MEN has reorganized the IPN into four division:
(i) studies and pedagogic research; (ii) design and development of pedagogic
materials; (iii) development of pedagogic documentation and texts for schoolbooks
(editing services); and general administration. In each wilaya the IPN has a
pedagogic services center (Centre d'etudes et de documentation pedagogique). INP
has prepared and guided all curriculum reform, pedagogic research, and developed
and produced all instructional materials (including schoolbooks) during the
eighties. However, teacher guides and supporting background documentation are
still scarce and have not yet been developed for some grade 7-12 subjects. In
addition, schools often lack libraries and basic pedagogic materials to support
the teaching process. Many of these materials still need to be developed. IPN
continues to be responsible for textbook publishing (writing, testing and
preparation for printing) of all prescribed core schoolbooks in basic and
secondary education.  This activity will be closely linked to its curriculum
development responsibilities and is coordinated with the National Staff Training
Center (CNF), which provides the staff training services for the sub-sector.
3.        The National Staff Training Center (CNF) is responsible for training
of inspectors, school principals and other administrative staff.   It also
develops and organizes in-service staff and teacher training courses and supports
local inspectorates in their school supervision. The CNF has a 3 regional
"DVRH':Division de Valorisation des Ressources Humaines. The wilaya education Directorate is
headed by a Director aed consists of pedagogic and administrative divisions (Local inspectors,
school mapping, construction and maintenance). The DVRH is responsible for the day-by-day
management, construction and maintenance of all basic and secondary education schooLs,
vocationaL training centers (CFPA), teacher training institutes (ITE), school orientation and
seLection centers (COSP), pedagogic resource centers (CRP and CRDOP) and other education
support services.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
antennas (CRF) and at wilaya level the CNF supports and supervises training
aspects and management of inspectorate and administrative staff in collaboration
with the wilaya-based Directorate of Education. The CNF faces a difficult task
in the years ahead.  It must necessarily be the driving force (with IPN) for
innovation of teaching methods and management and administrative reforms
throughout the sub-sector. It has received limited financial and human resources
over the past year and its technical equipiment is outdated. CNF needs to become
more effective by staff training and the supply of modern pedagogical support
materials (computers and technical equipment). Its cooperation with the IPN will
give it access to the new project-financed library and pedagogic research
results.  CNF has already started to revise the content of teacher and staff
training programs with more emphasis on quality of delivery methods and practical
on-the-job experience.
4.        National Center for Procurement and Maintenance of Equipment and
Pedagogical Materials (CAMEMD). The CAMEMD (EPAZ/) was created in 1986 and has
the status of Directorate within the MEN. It procures, distributes and maintains
pedagogic materials for over 15,000 basic and secondary education schools in
Algeria. CAMEMD also trains technicians (pre- and inservice training courses in
coordination with the CNF and IPN) and monitors pedagogic equipment use. CAMEMD
maintains links with the wilayas through its eight regional antennas. The total
staff number, including those employed in regional antennas, is about 215. The
CAMEMD has an allocated budget for procurement of pedagogic materials of some
DA120 million (US$5.4 in 1991). This covers equipment for the annual stock of
newly built schools: about 250 basic, 45 general secondary schools and 12
technicums. Equipment is procured through national and international bidding
procedures. The recent budget crunch, notably of foreign exchange, has hit hard
in terms of spending power for pedagogical equipment. To carry out its complex
task CAMEMD needs to   reinforce its institutional capacity through better
qualified higher staff (management, equipment and procurement specialists). In
addition, its technical library and documentation center and technical equipment
are in need of modernization (computerized information system, equipment for
monitoring and maintenance).
5.        National schoolbook production and distribution agency (ONPS).  ONPS
produces per year about 32 million core schoolbooks (about 200 different titles)
of reasonable physical quality (most books are printed in color on white paper
and many of them are hard bound). About two thirds of the books are produced by
its own production means, the rest is subcontracted to third parties. IPN and
ONPS existed together under the name IPN for more than 25 years.   ONPS has
obtained EPIC3' status within the MEN organization and its mission is to ensure
an adequate supply of prescribed schoolbooks to all basic and secondary schools
2J        "EPA": Entreprise Pubtic 3 caractere Acninistratif.
3/        "EPIC": Entreprise Publique a caractere Industriet et Commercial.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
in Algeria. ONPS currently employs over 1,000 staff and operates two production
plants4A in Algiers (its Hamma plant has to be moved because wilaya authorities
have other development plans for that plot), 3 regional distribution centers and
48 wilaya-based storage centers (CRDDP5'). Most grade 1-6 schoolbooks are
distributed through ONPS own network, notably to rural areas and isolated school
districts (storage facilities CRDDP which ONPS uses free of charge are owned by
the MEN in each wilaya). Most grade 7-12 schoolbooks and supplementary materials
are sold to pupils through about 500 commercial bookstores  throughout the
C.ountry.  Stores receive a 30% discount and can return unsold books for full
credit at the end of the school year.  Generally it can be concluded that ONPS
works reasonably effective, although there needs to be a thorough analysis of its
operations (both production and distribution) in each wilaya (to identify
disparities). However, the present (IPN and ONPS dominated) structure has failed
to produce teacher guides at higher level, to produce updated schoolbooks of
higher quality with the introduction of reform measures and to provide diversity
in textbooks and supplementary reading materials.  To address this issue, the
Government is committed to complete by December 1995 a study of the quality and
cost-efficiency of the production and distribution of schoolbooks.  The results
of the study will be discussed with the Bank.
6.        The MEN and ONPS expect that the annual demand for schoolbooks will
grow from 32 to 42 million over the next five years.   However, this seems
unrealistic since it is based on the assumptions that (i) the book life of only
one year remains unchanged (this is highly unlikely in view of the present credit
crunch); and (ii) the curriculum and the number of books per pupil remain
unchanged. ONPS's costs for production of the 1991 schoolbooks amounted to DA600
million (about US$28 million). This figure does not include IPN inputs (authors'
royalties and other editorial costs), distribution costs, depreciation on plant
and machinery, interest charges on capital employed and notional rent. Based on
available information the MEN estimates the current local production price per
schoolbook at about US$1. ONPS's income amounted to DA425 million (about US$20
million) in 1991. This was made up almost entirely from receipts for book loans
and book sales - that is to say contributions from the pupils (pupils in grade
1-6 pay a symbolic book fee of DA50; those in grades 7-9 pay DA125 per year).
The shortfall of about DA175 million (US$8 million) had to be made up by a direct
subsidy from the MEN. In the ongoing separation process between ONPS and IPN,
(and thus between ONPS and the MEN) its financial status has still to be
determined; in particular it has not yet been decided whether it should have to
pay the MEN for its capital base which consists mainly of buildings and
equipment. The MEN estimates that complete separation (ONPS autonomy) will be
achieved over the next 2-3 years.
These two plants are printing and bookbinding facilities: El Achour and Hamma in Belcourt.
According to the ONPS they have (together) a production capacity of about 30 million
schoolbooks per year (ONPS uses about 10,000 tons of paper per year). The machinery in the El
Achour complex is reasonably up to date, but needs some repair and maintenance. In addition,
some of the machinery cannot be used optimally, because of the lack of certain specialized
machinery (notably for bookbinding). The Hamma plant needs to be closed down. The equipment
in the Hamma plant is completely out of date (over 20 years old) and the most cost-efficient
solution is to replace it by modern equipment (keeping the same output capacity as project
objective).
5'        "CRODP": Centres rhgionaux de diffusion des mat6riels didactiques et p6dagogiques (used by
both CAMEMD and ONPS).



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
BASIC AND UNCONDARY 3DUCATION UWPPOR! PROJZCT
Overview of secondary education reform measures,
This Is an overview of the Goverruent's strategy for s condmry educatian reform;
It fi based an information presented fn: NRestructuration de L'Enseignamnt
Secondaire; Ninistire de l'Education, Alger, Alg&rl, mrs 1992".
1.        Secondary education in Algeria has not significantly changed since
1970.  From 1981 to 1990 the Government introduced the new system of basic
education (the present system includes 9 years of basic education, dlvided in 3
cycle., followed by 3 years of secondary education). About 44% of the successful
grade 9 school leavers are selected for entry into secondary education. The
remainder enters the labor market and/or enrolls into vocational training
courses. Secondary education include, general and technical streams. Technical
streams provide vocationalized technical education in special schools called
"technicums". Technical education is expensive (about 3-4 times higher global
unit cost per pupil compared to general education) due to the need for expensive
equipment and low pupil-teacher ratios.  Over the past decade the number of
different technical options has grown to 17. All secondary school leaver. who
obtain the baccalaur6at diploma are entitled to enter higher (university)
education.
2.        In 1970 secondary education was offered to 36,000 and in 1991 to
752,000 pupil. The number of secondary teachers grow over that same period from
2,700 to 44,000. Physical infrastructure also expanded considerably: from 65
secondary schools in 1970 and 850 in 1991.  Two important changes took place
since 1970: (i) Arabic replaced French as the language of instruction and (ii)
the number of expatriate teachers in the system was reduced from 67% in 1970 to
3.7% in 1991.
3.        The Government recognizes that the system is plagued by quality and
efficiency problems. This is illustrated by the relatlvely high repetition and
drop-out rates and the low pass rate of the baccalaur6at (secondary school
leaver.) examination: around 20-25% over the last 5 years. The Government has
identified underlying reasons for the decline in quality and efficiency. Two
categories of problems are identified: organizational/otructural and pedagogical.
4.        oraanizational/structural oroblems: (i) the structure of secondary
education is too complex; (ii) there are too many different options (22) and too
many subjects taught; (iii) a complex 'pupil orientation and selection' process
at the end of basic education (grade 9); (iv) ambiguity regarding the end-goals
of secondary education: all pupils wish to enter university education, but 75 to
80% do not obtain a diploma and must enter the labor market without vocational
training; (v) insufficient coordination between secondary and university
education; (vi) lack of coordination between secondary education and vocational
training streams; and (vii) mismatch between labor-market demands and secondary
education.



- 47 -
Ala 3
Page 2 of 4
5.        P-daaoaical problems: (i) overcharged progrmss which have insufficient
links with what is taught at lower levelsl (Li) no horizontal overlaps between
subjects; (iii) pedagogical content has insufficient links with pupill' social
and cultural 'out-of-school world'; (iv) gapu in relovant and professional
teacher training (pro- and in-zervice) both at pedagogic and scientific level
(which shown the need for better coordination between the Ministry of Education
and the Ministry of Universities); (v) abs-nce of an objective quality and
efficiency asmsesment system for teacher. which poses difficulties in designing
better training courses; (vi) absence at all basic and secondary education levels
of an efficient pedagogical research system; (vii) inefficiency of pupils,
learning assessment methodologies making development of remedial activities
difficult; (viii) existing pupil orientation mechanically channelm pupils into
existing streams (options) without sufficiently taking into account their
capacities and/or interest; (ix) lack of schoolbooks, lack of regular pedagogic
review and adaptation and lack of teacher guides (in spite of all the efforts by
the Ministry of Education to date); and (x) managment difficulties of some
school types, notably of the 'technicums. In addition it should be remarked
that technical education is undervalued by pupils/parents and a regarded as a
'second' choice. All staff in the sector, but notably teachers are increasingly
worse off in terms of salary, teaching/classroom conditions and school/learning
environment.
6.        The secondary education reform, which started in 1992/93 has the
following obiectives:
a.   to create two types of secondary educationt
i.    enseignement  secondaire   g6nral  at  technologiqu",
sanctioned with a baccalaur6at exam and giving successful
candidates access to university education; and
ii.  "eneeignement secondaire pr6-qualifiant, sanctioned by the
secondary education pr--qualification diploma; giving
successful candidates access to vocational training and/or
the job market;
b.   to simplify the structure by suppressing too much specialization
and by reducing the number of options (streams);
c.   to improve the links with basic and with higher education;
d.   to upgrade the value of technical education
*. to promote a better equilibrium between literary/language and
scientific subjects (in terms of pupil numbers opting for
particular subjects);
f.   to develop a learning (pedagogic) assessment system;



- 48 -
ANNE 3
Page 3 of 4
g.   to put in place a pupil orientation system based on objective and
transparent criteria;
h.   to develop regulatory mechanisms in secondary education which
would improve efficiency and reduce the number of dropouts;
i.   to  improve  subject content  (curriculum)  in terms of their
pedagogical   content and adapt teaching methods and teacher
training to the new programs.
7.        Structure of the reformed  secondary education  system  (see also
schematic representation below).  Introduction of the new system has started in
1992/93.  The first year of secondary (AS1) will include 2 "troncs communs":
literature/human sciences dominated; and science and technology dominated. At
the beginning of the second year (AS2) pupils will be channelled into (i) a
baccalaur6at oriented stream (leading to university access) or (ii) a diploma
oriented stream (leading to vocational training and/or job market entry). Pupils
will be oriented into these streams according to (i) their school results; (ii)
their aptitudes; (iii) their individual preferences; and (iv) the number of
available places ("carte scolaire"). At the beginning of AS2 the baccalaur6at
stream will contain 3 sub-streams (in total 7 specific options will be offered)s
literature, sciences and technology. The diploma oriented stream will contain
2 sub-streams (in total 6 specific options will be offered)s tertiary sector
oriented and industrial sector oriented. The number of options hav- been
determined by criteria like the needs of the society, new international
developments, economic and scientific developments and the needs in higher
education and vocational training.
S.        At the end of the second school-year (AS2) re-orientations may take
place between the baccalaur6at and diploma streams on the basis of school results
(governed by pedagogical criteria set by the Ministry of Education).



-49-
0'
.Rlere             |     |    iFlre B   iur |
is                               F   lllare ComptabliR6 |       Flifirs Corntblt        
l           Fiiibre Mecaniqu         F 6bre Mecutique
iU                   41r       |iFMaebeflict|           |Rire i-iedcts           |1 
FRnbre BAilment          Rlire B&Uii ent
Travaux Publics          Travaux PubIcs
5i Us                                FRllrsCii       |     | iiiee Chimie  1                _ib
-z
0LU                                       isamqu 
a, 3                     rRl~~~~~~~~iebre Leie  t| |FOiiia Lentrst|
ul                                i an  Ltt se |        | Sdernces 4   
=u                                           Fi s      r        e Letre Oii t
GL                     ]       | estlon t Economb||iisztEoom    
_i -                                lFibre           Tecnobi   RlreTeho9 |l  
LU                               Flar nces
r la rzhre eArG-t Fl a b |ia atre e  e1  b1 a
SLengS s exactes        Lanes
i                                               G       e E oi



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
ALGERIA
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Organization. operation and management of COSPs
1.    Organization
The School Orientation and Selection Centers (COSPs) are entrusted
with (i) activities linked to the orientation of students enrolled in the
different cycles of education, particularly at the points of transition from
one cycle to another; (ii) the provision of information to students and
parents; and (iii) the assessment of learning achievement and of teaching and
training programs and methods, in coordination with the structures and
institutes concerned.
At the local level, COSPs report to the Director of Education of
the Wilaya concerned.
2.    Operation
(a)   Staff
The technical staff of the COSPs comprises School and Job
Orientation (OSP) Counselors who have received specialized
university training in the area of school orientation and
selection and in applied psychology (general psychology, child and
adolescent psychology, social psychology, sociology of education,
psychotechnical, statistics, planning, demographics).
Most of them are former teachers on secondment to take training
courses in these disciplines. Other Counselors, not from the
teaching body, have been recruited from among holders of a degree
(licence) in psychology or in education sciences.
(b)   Work program
A COSP has an activities program for the school year, which is
prepared at the start of the school year and submitted to the
local hierarchical authorities for prior clearance. The program
has three basic components: orientation, information and
assessment. It also covers studies and surveys related to the
operation and output of the education system. Other specific
activities may be included in the programs, at the initiative
either of the COSP Director or of the Director of Education, to
handle specific issues at the local level.



- 51 -
Page 2 of 5
3.    Management
A COSP is headed by a Director, who has direct oversight over the
technical staff (OSP Counselors) and administrative and service staff. It has
an operating budget allocated by the Government. It also has facilities for
reproduction and for handling administrative matters.
A COSP is managed under the direct administrative supervision of
the Education Director of the respective Wilaya. For technical matters, it is
supervised by the central Ministry of National Education (establishment of the
broad lines of the activities program, general guidelines for pupil-
orientation and selection programs and methods). The Education and Training
Inspectors (IEF/OSP) are responsible for monitoring and inspecting the
centers.  They also keep a check on the Counselors   within the context of the
continuing education courses provided.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
ALGERIA
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Component: Design and Implementation of a Pilot System for Learning Assessment and Quality and Efficiency Evaluation
Antenna:             Staff            Basic 1st & 2nd        Basic 3rd cycle         Secondary                Total
cycles
COSP       Techn.    Teaching           Numbers                Numbers              Numbers                Numbers
I.OSP     School      Schools    Pupils    Schools   Pupils   Schools    Pupils    Schools    Pupils
C.OSP    teachers
ALGIERS
11      20,152         466    238,515         161   113,886         55    72,261         682     424,662
Ben-Aknoun                             _               (*)        (*)       (*)        (*)        (*).
ORAN             7       10,947         332    162,877         73    61,880         23    32,269         428      257,026
TLEMCEN            5        8,423        438    133,005          80   43,506          21    21,683         539     198,i94
CONSTANTINE          8        8,723         235    119,734         73   47,664          18    26,104         326      193,502
GUELMA            3        4,480         218     66,758         40    24,112          12    12,828         270     103,698
ADRAR             2        2,536        243      39,890         19     8,037          7      4,011        269      51,938
TOTAL            36      55,261       1,932    760,779         446 291,048          136   169,156       2,514   1,229,020
(*) These numbers relate to all of Algiers Wilaya.



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
ALGERIA
Basic and secondary education support project
A.          The proposed system of assessment would initially be implemented
through six COSPs: Algiers, Tlemcen, Oran, Constantine, Guelma and Adrar.
A second stage would bring in the following centers: Bejaia,
Tizi-Ouzou, Annaba, Mostaganem, Mascara, Batna and Biskra.
B.          Equipment needed:
-     2 PCs for each COSP
-     software
-     reproduction and communications facilities (typewriters,
photocopying machines, offset printers, Fax)
-     documentation and psychotechnical equipment
The equipment listed above is needed for each of the initial
centers and the Central Unit.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
ALGERIA
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Component: Installation of a pilot system for learning assessment and quality and efficiency evaluation
TRAINING IN ALGERIA
NO. OF PERSONS TO BE TRAINED          YEAR 1   YEAR 2    YEAR 3    YEAR 4    YEAR 5    YEAR 6
Teachers (PNE)                                   66       284        315        630       272      1,567
Teachers (Indicators)                            35        35        175                             245
Technicians (PNE + indicators)                    3         1          1          1                    6
Administrative staff (PNE + indicators)           7         8                                         15 
Total persons to be trained                     111       328        491       631        272      1,833
The costs (DA 500/day/participant) cover the costs of lodging, food, supplies, supervision and
travel to the regional workshops (three 3-4 day workshops). This rate will be subject to continual
adjustment to reflect cost increases.



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
page 1 of 6
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
A. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements1
IBRD                            Disbursements         Project    Country
Fiscal Year   Seuester       Per Semester Cumulative   Profile    Profile
----in US$ million ---- X        X
1994           First              0.0          0.0         0O
Second            2.5          2.5           6%          21
1995           First              2.0          4.5         11l
Second            2.0          6.5          161         141
1996           First              2.5          9.0         23X
Second            3.0         12.0          30X         261
1997           First              4.0         16.0         40X
Second            4.5         20.5          51X         461
1998           First              4.0         24.5         61%
Second            3.5         28.0          701         701
1999           First              3.5         31.5         791
Second            3.0         34.5          86X         821
2000           First              2.5         37.0         931
Second            2.0         39.0          981         941
2001           First              1.0         40.0        1001
Second            0.0         40.0         1001        1OO1l
The Project Completion Date is September 30, 2000
The Project Closing Date is March 31, 2001



- 56 -
page 2 of 6
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Suimary Accounts by Year
Totats Including Contingenies
DA (000)
._ ,,.......,,,,.................,,.,,..................._.__._._.__.......................................___..
1993       1994        1995        1996        1997        1998        1999       2000       TotaL
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Civil works                        14786.9    17954.1       5574.9      6724.7         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    45040.6
B. Techn. Equipoent                       0.0   123558.7    89370.5    71296.5            0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0   284225.6
C. Pedagogic Haterials                    0.0   226085.8   249479.0   205133.2   155372.7   179311.1              0.0        0.0  1015381.8
D. Training                               0.0    18589.8    37798.9    41230.5    36291.7    42697.0    36141.9              0.0   212749.8
E. Studies                             2718.5      4597.7      4675.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    11991.1
F. Consultants                         2480.3         0.0      5086.4    10837.6    14626.0       3696.2      4159.6         0.0    40886.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                19985.7   390786.0   391984.7   335222.6   206290.4   225704.3    40301.4              0.0  1610275.1
_ ###g# R- ---# _-.   -- -_-#_-
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Project Mgt. Unit                   1867.7      1361.3      1144.4      1359.3      1606.2      1853.4      1981.8     Z392.5    13566.6
S. Operations & maintenane                0.0    20782.8    51625.7    92884.1   110354.9   128048.6   191280.9   211765.6   80674z.6
C. Other operating costs                  0.0      2386.3      3102.9      6352.6    15617.7    25915.8    33739.4    16414.6   103529.3
. ....................................................................................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  1867.7    24530.4    55873.0   100596.0   127578.7   155817.8   227002.1   230572.6   923838.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                   21853.4   415316.5   447857.7   435818.6   333869.1   381522.1   267303.5   230572.6  2534113.6
*  . . ,_-s=st#-Bat  s t _    --  _-- --      --- -- t B #---= - --- # 
VaLues Scated by 1000.0  2/11/1993  14:14
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Irnluding Contingencies
USS (00O)
1993       1994        1995        1996        1997        1998        1999       2000       Total
I  INVESTHENT COSTS
... _.................
A. Civfl works                          631.9       645.8       165.9       170.2         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0      1613.9
B. Tochn. Equipment                       0.0      4444.6      2659.8      1805.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0      8909.4
C. Pedagogic Materials                    0.0      8132.6      7425.0      5193.2      3437.4     3557.8          0.0        0.0    2746.0
0. Training                                0.0      668.7      1125.0      1043.8       802.9       847.2      659.5         0.0      5147.1
E. Studies                              116.2       165.4       139.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0       420.7
F. Consultants                          106.0         0.0       151.4       274.4       323.6       73.3        75.9         0.0      1004.6
... .. ................-......................................... .......................................................................   -..........- .*
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                  854.1    14057.1    11666.2        8486.6      4563.9     4478.3       735.4         0.0    44841.6
11. RECURRENT COSTS
................................__
A. Project Mgt. Unit                     79.8        49.0        34.1        34.4        35.5        36.8       36.2        40.8       346.5
I. Operations & Maintwnce                 0.0       747.6      1536.5      2351.5      2441.5     2540.6      3490.5      3607.6    16715.8
C. Other operating costs                  0.0        85.8        92.3       160.8       345.5      514.2       615.7       279.6      2094.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    79.8       882.4      1662.9      2546.7      2822.5     3091.6      4142.4      3928.0    19156.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                     933.9    14939.4    13329.1    11033.4         73a6.5     7569.9      4877.a      3928.0    63998.0
Va.u a Sc leud by 1000 0  ZsuUusmu 14:14.                                 ..    uu........
---e Scale*d ,b,y 10-0'0.0'. 2/-1 1-/,1993  14-:14,-------------   ------



- 57 -
AM  5
page 3 of 6
B. Summary Accounts by Year and Component
2. Summary Accounts by Component
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
DA (000)
Schools                        Physical            Prfce
Orient.&               supply                       Contingencies       Contfngencfes
Assest.   Pedagogic      and                    .....................................
System    Research    CAMEND        Total         X      Amount        X    Amount
23Z2zU2UZ5UsZUZUUZs2ZUUUREUUUUUUuZx-aE-------------X22W               UUUu3UWU___3_
l. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CiviL works                           0.0        0.0    31262.0    31262.0         10.0     3126.2     34.1    10652.4
B. Techn. Equipment                   8800.0     3960.0   162976.0   175736.0         6.0    10544.2      55.7    97945.5
C. Pedagogic Haterials                2200.0     4994.0   531344.0   538538.0         5.2    28076.8      83.3   448767.0
0. Training                          17600.0    11000.0    71852.0   100452.0          2.0     1959.1    109.8   110338.7
E. Studies                               0.0     5500.0     3014.0      8514.0         5.0      425.7     35.8     3051.4
F. Consultants                       3740.0    13200.0      2200.0    19140.0         5.0       957.0    108.6    20789.1
.. __........ ................_. ..__. ....... ........ _...__. .__._.__......................................_
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               32340.0    38654.0   802648.0   873642.0          5.2    45089.0     79.2  691544.1
1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Project Mgt. Unit                   220.0      264.0      6468.0     6952.0         0.0        0.0     95.1      6614.6
B. Operations & Maintenance           5500.0     5390.0   307560.0   318450.0          0.0        0.0    153.3   488292.6
C. Other operating costs             33506.0      638.0      5500.0    39644.0         0.0        0.0    161.1    63885.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                39226.0     6292.0   319528.0   365046.0          0.0        0.0    153.1   558792.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                 71566.0    44946.0  1122176.0  1238688.0          3.6    45089.0    100.9  1250336.6
Physical Contingencies              1507.0     2022.2    41559.8    45089.0
Price Contingencies                86336.1    45749.1  1118251.4  1250336.6         2.5    31098.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                 159409.1    92717.3  2281987.2  2534113.6          3.0    76187.9     49.3  1250336.6
Taxes                                  0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                  42329.1    76155.6  1302906.6  1421391.3          5.0    71765.8
... .......... .... ..........0  2   1.4..../11/1993 ._4_1._..._.
Valuies Scaled by 1000.0 2/11/1993 14:14



- 58 -
Si j     { f  :  {1 {page 4 of 6
I lg :° F 0:I i
3~~~~   ~ ~~$-' ~....  t.....
I   §               :i  i's
on 
ig.~~~~~~~~~  ~ ......
aI n
l;s  oos@ 
*1}
.,...... ii
.......... 



- 59 -
ANNEt 5
page 5 of 6
D. Proiect Financing per Category of Expenditures
(including contingencies)
------ in US$ million ----------
CategoriA                           Government        IBRD          TOAL
Investment Costs
Civil works                            1.6            0.0            1.6
Technical equipment                     0.2           8.8            S60
Pedagogic materials                    0.0           27.7           27.7
Technical Cooperation
and training                         3.2            3.4            6.6
Total Investment Costs                  i.9i                         44.9
Recurrent Costs
Project Management Unit                0.2            0.1            0.3
Equipment Operations and
Maintenance                        16.7            0.0           16.7
Other Operations Costs                  2.1           0.0            2.1
Total Recurrent Costs                  ]i.Q            Q.1 12.1
Total                                   24.0          4.             64.0



- 60 -
CAMEMD - Schools materials - Financing Plan                 ANNEX 5
per sub-component                                  Page 6 of 6
(in US$ million)
GOA        IBRD       TOTAL
I. Investment Costs:
1. Schools materlals supply                      0      19,252     19,252
2. Storage and Redistribution Facility
- Civil works                               325           0        325
- Science consumables                         0       4,850      4,850
3. Maintenance and Training Capacity
- Civil works                              1,096          0      1,096
- Technical Equipment                       140       7,268      7,408
- Training                                 2,585        681      3,266
- Study                                       0         237        237
- Documentation                               0          50         50
11. Recurrent costs:                        14,436         88      14,524
Total Base Costs                            18.582      32.426  5 1.008
Contingencies                                2,745       4,191      6,936
Total Costs                                 21.327      36.617     57.944
J:%alg\pa083\iennlenglish\annex5p6.wk1



- 61 -
ANNUt 6
page 1 of 1
ALGERIA
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Project Management and Supervision Structure
MINISTER OF EDUCATION               WORLD BANK
Prepare and submit project
monitoring and evaluation
reports (APIRs and Mid-term
review)
_  II
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (PNU)
Project Director
Director DOE
Director IPN
Director CAMEMD
Assigned Administrative Staff
prepare and submit reports on project
implementation, monitoring, and evaluation
per component
Department responsible     National Pedagogic             Center for
for Orientation and        Institute (IPN)                Provision and
Evaluation (DOE)                                          Maintenance of
Equipment and
Pedagogic
Materials (CAMEMD
School Orientation
and Selection Centers
(COSP)



- 62 -
AMNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
ALOERIA
Basic and Secondary Education Support Ptojea
Project Implementation Indicators per Component
Component 1: Preparation of a pilot orientation and aue_nent system (DOE)
Component            Actions                   Project Implemetation Indicators                  Method          Whon and by whom
to measure
1. Design and      I. Surveys (9)     1. Invitations to bid on services                       Six-monthly report   DOE: I at year of
implementation of                                                                                                  project
pilot system for                      2. Bid evaluation and contract signatur                 Six-monthly report    DOE/Proj. Dir, Ist
learning                                                                                                           year of project
sasement and                          3. Nine (9) individuals trined abroad betwen 1994 and   Quanttative report    DOE: Six months
quality and                            1993 in pedagogic assement methodology and urvey                            and APIR
efficiency                            techniques
evaluation                            4. Six (6) individuals trained abroad between 1996 and 1998
in pedagogic assessmnt methodology and urvey techniques                      DOE: Six months
5. In-service trining of 66 individuals in 1994, 284 in 1995,
315 in 1996, 630 in 1997,272 in  199S in pedagogic                           DOE: Annual
assement methodology and survey techniques                                   Reviews (APtR)
6. Number of tWe,u carried out and administrtive from l t
quarter 1996 through end of project
7. Trained stff capable of designing, implementing and  Qualitative report   DOE: Annual and
evaluating internal efficiency studies, both mid-term and at                 Mid-term review and
project completion                                                           PCR
S. Test validity and reliability
2. Dissemination   1. Information on pupils' performance levels; dissemination    Qualitative report  COSPIDOE: Annual
and utilization of that informtion by the education                          and Mid-term review
community from 2nd semster 196 through project                               and PCR
completion
3. Activitie       I. Bank of standardized tem items, created, adapted and used    Qualitative report  COSP/DOE: Annual
linked to          by schools in their achieveme nttes from Idt semetr 1997                     and Mid-term review
improvement of     through end of project                                                       and PCR
asersment
procedures
4. Execution of a    I. Five (5) individuals trined abroad in the methodological    Quantitative report  DOEICOSP: six-
study program      and analytical areas of the 5 indicator groups, between 1994                 monthly report
relative to S      and 1995
indicator groups   2. Training in Algeia of 45 saff in 1994; 44 stff in 1995;    Qualitative report
designed to        and 176 saff in 1996.
characterize       3. Trmined suff capable of designing, implemnting and  Qualitative report
operation of the   evaluating external efficiency studies
system             4. Valid, reliable and useful information on output of the
Algerian school system, available and accessible, used by the
education officials/decisionmakera from 2nd semest  1997
through projec completion
5. Provide the     I. Procurement by the fixed deadline (1994)            Quantitative report   CAMEMD/DOE:
pilot sytem        - pdagogic equipment and supplies                                            Annual Review
(central unit and  - documentation                                                              (APIR)
the 6 COSPs) with   2. Cost-effectivene  of equipmnt use nd maintenance   Quantitative report
the matrial                                                                                     Annual and Mid-term
resourcee to                                                                                   review and PCR
support its
pedagogic
assm nt and
orientution and
selecion activities



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
ALOEIIA
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Project Implementation Indicator per Component
Component 2: Strengthening of EPN pedagogic reserch progrm
Component            Actions                    Project implementation Indicators                   Method           When and by whom
to measure
Development of      1. Inallation of    1. Invitations for propoaals for technical cooperation and  Six-monthly report  IPN/Proj. Dir.: I t
LPN's pedagogic     a r_e-rch tem      overass trining                                                                 year of project
resch programs    capable of           2. Proposal evaluation and signature of technical cooperation
evaluating        and tmining contracts
rebstionships     3. Thirty-aix individuals trained abroad in curriculum and  Quantitaive report   IPN: Six monthly
between basic      schoolbook evaluation between 1993 and 1994                                     report
nd secondary      4. Around 600 individuals (12x59-person teminars) to be    .                     IPN  Annual starting
school curricula    trined locally in curriculum and schoolbook evaluation                         1993 (APIR)
and textbooks     between 1993 and 1996.                                                           IPN: Semi-annual
5. 36 individuals trined abroad capable of designing,     Qualitative and       report
implementing and evaluating research in the areas of     quantitative report
curricula and schoolbooks and of trnsmitting their
experience to other teachers in 1994 and onward
6. Improved quantity and quality of IPN's pedagogic research                    EPN: Annual and
progrm.                                                   Qualitative reports   Mid-termn review and
and classroom         PCR
7. Improved consistency, relevance and quality of curricula  observation        EPN/COSP: Annual
and schoolbook texts at the levels of teaching and in the                       and Mid-term review
disciplines studied                                                             snd PCR
2. Supply IPN      I. Invitations to bid on documentation; bid evaluation and  Six-monthly report  IPN/CAMEMD
tibrary with      contract signture
documentation     2. Invitations for proposals for technical assistance and                        EPN/Proj. Dir. lrt
training; proposal evaluation and contract signature                            year of project
3. Obtaining of 5,000 books, joumals and periodicals by the    Quantitative rport  EPN/CAMEMD:
fixed deadline                                                                  APIR
IPN/CAMEMD:
4. Numiber and type of subscriptions to foreign specialized                     APIR
joumals & periodicals procured by the assigned deadline
5. Six to ten individuals with library training trained in                      1PN: Six months and
management and computerized systems                                             APIR
6. Quality of support given to IPN by trained library staff in
relation to all of the tasks entrusted to IPN                                   IPN: Annual and
7. Purchase of copying equipment (desk-top publishing                           Mid-term review and
and/or offset) by the fixed deadline                      Qualitative report    PCR
S. Twelve thousand copies of acceptable quality distributed                     IPN/CAMEMD:
by 1PN starting in 1995                                                         Annual and Mid-term
review and PCR



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 6
ALGERIA
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Project Impbementation indicators per Component
Component 3: Improved use of pedagogic materials (CAMEMD)
Component            Actions                    Project Implementation Indicators                   Method           When and by whom
to measure
1. Purchase of      1. Purchae of      I st year:                                                                           CAMEMD
equipment for pilot   13,000           - Invitations to bid on equipment: 6,000 grade 1-6        Bidding documents           Nov. 1993
assessment system   compendiums for   compendiums, 150 for basic 3rd-cycle, 50 for lycees        Equipment
and for             grades 1-6, 750    - Conatructionof new schools: 500 (grades 1-6), 150 (3rd-  nomenclature          MEN: 1994
development of      scientific kits for    cycle basic), 50 (Iyc&es), and hiring of personnel
orientation and     basic 3rd-cycle,   - Purchase of equipment                                   Advice of delivery     CAMEMD: 1994
selection           250 scientific kits   - Distribution of equipment per wilaya: I compendium per  Quantitative report  CAMEMD: 1994
procedures          for lycees         grade 1-6 basic education school, I package per 3rd-cycle  per wilaya
basic school, I per lycee.
2nd year:
- Invitations to bid on equipment: 5,500 grade 1-6        Bidding documeris     CAMEMD: 1994
compendiums, 150 for basic 3rd-cycle, 50 for 1yc6es       Equipment
- Construction of new schools: 500 (grades 1-6), 150 (3rd-  nomenclature        MEN: 1995
cycle basic), 50 (Iycdee), and hiring of personnel
- Purchase of equipment                                   Advice of delivery    CAMEMD: 1995
- Distribution of equipment per wilaya: I compendium per  Quantitative report   CAMEMD: 1995
grade 1-6 basic education school, I package per 3rd-cycle  per wilays
basic school, I per lyc6e.
3rd year:
- Invitations to bid on equipment: 500 grade 1-6          Bidding documents     CAMEMD: 1995
compendiums, 150 for basic 3rd-cycle, 50 for lyc6ee       Equipment
- Construction of new schools: 500 (grades 1-6), 150 (3rd-  nomenclature        MEN: 1996
cycle basic), 50 (Iycees), and hiring of personnel
- Purchuse of equipment                                   Advice of delivery    CAMEMD: 1996
- Distribution of equipment per wilaya: I compendium per  Quantitative report   CAMEMD: 1996
grade 1-6 basic education school, I package per 3rd-cycle  per wilays
basic school, I per lyc6e.
4th year:
- Invitations to bid on equipment: 500 grade 1-6          Bidding documents     CAMEMD: 1996
compendiums, 150 for basic 3rd-cycle, 50 for lycees       Equipment
- Construction of new schools: 500 (grades 1-6), 150 (3rd-  nomenclature        MEN: 1997 (APIR
cycle basic), 50 (Iycess), and hiring of personnel                              and mid-term
- Purchase of equipment                                   Advice of delivery    Review)
- Distribution of equipment per wibaya: I compendium per  Quantitative report
grade 1-6 basic education school, I package per 3rd-cycle  per wilaya           CAMEMD: 1997
basic school, I per lycee.                                                      CAMEMD: 1997
5th year:
- Invitations to bid on equipment: 500 grade 1-6          Bidding documents     CAMEMD: 1997
compendiums, 150 for basic 3rd-cycle, 50 for lyc6es       Equipment
- Construction of now schools: 500 (grades 1-6), 150 (3rd-  nomenclature        MEN: 1998
cycle basic), 50 (Iyc6 e), and hiring of personnel
- Purchase of equipment                                   Advice of delivery    CAMEMD: 1998
- Distribution of equipment per wilays: I compendium per  Quantitative report   CAMEMD: 1998
grade 1-6 basic education school, I package per 3rd-cycle  per wilaya
basic school, I per Iycee.



- 65 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 6
Component            Actions                   Project Implementation Indicatos                   Method           When and by Whom
to measure
2. Construction     2.1 Technico-     Iit year:
and equipping of a    economic atudy  - Preparation of TOR for technical and economic study    Six-monthly report    CAMEMD/Proj. Dir.
chemicals          including                                                                                         June 1993
repackaging unit    identification of  - Implementation of technical and economic study                              CAMEMD: Oct.
issues related to                                                                                Dec. 1993
safety and          Preparation of technical and economic study covering safety   Study completion  CAMEMD: Nov.
pollution         and pollution issues, and waste treatment or utilization  report                1993
- Construction of a storage shed for products and a packing
and sorting workshop                                                           CAMEMD: 1993-94
- Equipment procurement under ICB
2.2 Construction                                                           Bidding documents     Nov. 1993
of premises                                                                Nomenclature and
- Procurement of products by ICB up to 40% of total      quantity
2.3 Purchcse of                                                            Bidding documents     CAMEMD +
equipment                                                                  Nomenclature and      Boufarik
- Breakdown of products by regional center and school   quantity               Nov. 93-1994
2.4 Purchase of                                                            Quantitative report   Program 1994
products          2nd year:                                                per school
- Procurement of products by ICB up to 30% of total
Bidding documents     CAMEMD +
Nomenclature and      Boufarik
- Breakdown of products by regional center and school   quantity               Nov. 1994
Quantitative report   Program 1995
3rd year:                                               per school
- Procurement of products by ICE up to 30% of total
- Breakdown of products by regional center and school    Bidding documents     CAMEMD +
Nomenclature and      Boufarik
4th year:                                               quantity               Nov. 1995
- Breakdown of products by regional center and school                          Program 1996
Quantitative report   CAMEMD +
5th year:                                               per school             Boufarik
- Breakdown of products by regional center and school                          Nov. 1996
Quantitative report   CAMEMD +
per school            Boufarik
Nov. 1996



- 66 -
ANX 7
Page 5 of 6
Component             Actions                     Project Implementation Indicator                     Method            When and by Whom
to mewasure
3. Strengthening of   3.1 Study of       Ist year:
CAMEMD's             maintenance        - Preparation of TOR for the maintenance study (costs,       Quantitative report    CAMEMD: June
maintenanco         requirements        efficiency, procedures, resources, management)                                      1993
resourcer                               - Implementation of maintenance study                       Six-monthly report      CAMEMDIProj. Dir.
Oct-Dec. 1993
- Preparation of study of spare parts requirements and      Study completion       CAMEMD: 1993
equipment nomenciature                                     report
- Conversion of Boufarik regional center into a CNM
3.2 Conversion     - Procurement by ICB of equipment for the CNM                Bidding documenu       CAMEMD: 1994
of the Boufarik                                                                Equipment
regional center                                                                nomenclature
into a CNM.        - Spare parts purchase by ICB, up to 50% of the total, as per    Bidding document
Equipping of       TOR                                                         Equipment
laboratories                                                                   nomenclature
- Organization of five 4-day local training of trainer     Training program
3.3 Spare parts    workshops
purchase
- Organization of eight 4-day teacher and manager training  Training program
workshops
- Refresher course overseas for eight senior technicians and  Training program
3.4 Develop-       engineers and two senior managers (CAMEMD engineers)        following TOR
ment of                                                                        (June/July 1994) for
preventive and     2nd year:                                                   training (see model)
spot maintenance    - Spare parts purchase by ICB, up to 30% of the total, as per   Internship report
activities         TOR                                                         Bidding documents,      CAMEMD: 1995
3.5 Provide        - Recruitment of four senior technicians per regional center  invitation to bid,
training right     (32)                                                        nomenclature
from the start for    - Organization of five training of trainer workshops
teachers,          - Organization of eight teacher and manager training        Trining program
managers and       workshops                                                   following TOR for
CAMEMD             - Refresher course overseas for four senior technicians - four    training (seo model)
technicians in the    senior managers (Regional Center Directors)              Internship report
optimum use of
equipment          3rd year:
3.6 Refresher      - Spare parts purchases by ICB up to 20 % of the total
courses for                                                                    Bidding documents       CAMEMD: 1996
managers and       - Organization of five training of trainer workshops
maintenance
engineers - short    - Organization of eight teacher and manager trining
intemships         workshops
overses
- Refresher course overseas for two senior technicians - two
senior managers (Regional Center Directors)                 Training program
following TOR for
training (see model)
Internship report



- 67 -
AMEX 7
Page 6 of 6
Component            Actions                    Projet Impl_mentation Indicaton                     Meod             When and by whom
to measnre
4th year:
- Assesunen of mtsnaice activities                       Evaluation repott      CAMEMD: 1997
- Organization of five trining of trainer workshops      Training program per
- Orgnization of eight teacher and rneger trining        TOR (ro model)
workshops                                                 Inmesmhip rpott
- Refrehshr course abroad for two  ior tachoicis - two
senior manag  (Regional Center Directors)
5t year:
- Assesmet of development of raintsnnC acivities and                            CAMEMD: 1998
training workshops



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
Rdpublique Akg6rienne Democratique et Populaire: Projet Pilote d'Appui a I'Enseignment Fondamental et Secondaire
MATRICE DU PROJET
COMPOSANTE 1                       COMPOSANTE 2                        COMPOSANTE 3
Elaborer                           Renforcer                           Ameliorer
un dispositif pilote                 le programme                          I'utilisation
d'orientation et d'evaluation       de recherche pedagogique            des moyens pedagogiques
(DOE)                               (IPN)                             (CAMEMD)
Cat6gories de D6caissemient         Categories de DMcaissement         Cat6gories de D6caissernent
10.10 genie civil                   20.10 genie civil                  30.10 genie civil
10.20 equipement technique          20.20 equipernent technique        30.20 equipement technique
10.30 materiel p6dagogique          20.30 materiel pedagogique         30.30 materiel pedagogique
10.40 cooperation technique et formation 20.40 cooperation technique et formation 30.40 cooperation technique et formation
10.50 operations                    20.50 operations                   30.50 operations



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
Algeria: Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Implementation Schedule
key                effectiveness |               year 1 (30 September)
»: preparation          completion date                                                                 year 6 (30 September)  I*           I              _
xx: implernentation  closing date         __   _                                                                        year 7 (30 September)   .
oo: evaluation                           _===
code dis ur er ent . .~~~~~.....          ....   :t  e                    ....  ......   -__ __=....     ..                          ....   .................. e6 _
code  disbursement                           ..qr1ya2yer4-3 :__year 6
lO.lO categories   componentsM.¶....  :   1 2 3 4                                          4                                        21  2  2  23 1 4.
20. 10    2        -  IPN    ::    l    l   l   .   t   .  ..................... } l l l ... . E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... .. .. . .    .. .:::
30   20  equpment-  DOu :sx | x| x    o  Ho .................................... .........--|.
10.10 civil works          1 - DOE                                                                            I....   'T
30.10                      3 - CAMEMD   ....... :s:: >|x|x|o :X.t.xt. X:  :   0|x|x|o -   ................  . _ x  ....  |o ----- --
10.40 tech.coop.n          1 - DOE        :      :>:        :       >        . >.... x   x   0   X ...... .... .....
20.10                      2    -  IPN                                        ...20  ........ ...........
30.20       3-CAMEMD                           >~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .... .......    x-.---
30.30    3___                3-CAMEMD                                     0   ....*..0...
30.40  ______   3-CAMEMD                             ..                  ....             . : :Z: :  x|x | |o   .K .................... Qx   x   ......  |o ..:  x|x| l o  .    .. :. ..
10.50 operations   1 -DOE                      .  > x x |x |x  x: xx                                                            xx|x  o|o .
20.50                      2-IPN                     ...  .... >                                                .... .... .. xL.
30.50                      3 -3CAMEMD                    : xxx                                 X o xxx |   o                    x|x |                  x | 



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
Algeria: Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Implementation Schedule: Project Management
key                                 _         Effectiveness: year 1 (30 September)  |  |  |  |
>: preparation                                              Project completion date: year 6 (30 September)      *       _      _J
xx: implemnentation                 _                                               Loan cosing date: year 7 (30 Septemnber)  *
oo: evaluation                      _   =  _=j
E t t _ _ _ r 2 = ~. .........  .............  : ...-. _ya4..Fya       
yearT 2                    ye  4                    -year 6        x
actions                                            1  2  3  4                 1  2 T                             3 14 2
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                   .     ..         m      .   ...
copy of audit report sent to WB       .  ........              .... x  I o   I  .. I     :      . . .
annual evaluation mission in field                                                                     ...>          N a>      .... ...
annual MEN evaluation report done                  X x                      :.IX~ x  a         t :x    
project completion report issued                                                                       X



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6
R6publique Alg6rienne Democratique et Populaire: Projet Pilote d'Appui a l'Enseignement Fondamental et Secondaire
AGENDA/COWOSANTE 1: Elaborer un dspositif pilote d'orientation et d'evaluation.
achever         achever      achever        personne
code              description de I'action         mobilisation    pr6paration    action       responsable
10.21 equipement acquisition 6q. inform. et reprographique  Aug-93         Feb-94       Dec-94  directeur/CAMEMD
10.31 materiel    acquisition documentation psychotechnique  Aug-93        Jan-94       Jan-95  directeur de la DOE
10.411 consultant preparation sondages                    Aug-93           Oct-93       Dec-93  directeur de la DOE
10.412 consultants recruter consultants                    Aug-93          Jan-95       Oct-97  directeur de la DOE
10.43 form/etr.   formation a l'etranger                   Aug-93          Feb-94       Sep-94  directeur de la DOE
10.44 form. locale organisation des seminaires             Aug-94          Feb-95       Feb-98  directeur de la DOE
10.51 gestion proj. gestion du projet                      Apr-93          Sep-93       Sep-00  directeur du projet
10.52 fonction.   fonctionnement de l'equipement           Apr-94          Apr-95       Sep-00  directeur de la DOE
10.53 entretien    entretien de l1'quipement               Apr-94          Apr-95       Sep-00  directeur de la DOE
10.54 salaires   decaisser salaires pour formation/etranger  Aug-93        Feb-94       Sep-94  directeur de la DOE
10.55 PNE        mise en place du PNE                      Feb-94          Sep-94       Feb-97  directeur de la DOE
Sep-92  Sep-93  Sep-94  Sep-95  Sep-96  Sep-97  Sep-98  Sep-99  Sep-00
10.21 equipement
10.31 materiel
10.41 1 consultant
10.41 2 consultants
10.43 form/etr.
10.44 form. locale                                                                           U action
10.51 gestion proj.  _                                                                          p
10.52 fonction.                                                                              prearation
10.53 entretien                                                                           *mobilisation
10.54 salaires PNEi_s__i|
'55 PNE



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 6
Republique Algerienne DMmocratique et Populaire: Projet Pilote d'Appui a I'Enseignement Fondamental et Secondaire
AGENDA/COMPOSANTE 2: Renforcer le systeme de recherche n6dagoique de lIPN   _
achever         achever    achever         personne
code              description de I'action        mobilisation    pr6paration    action       responsable
20.22 6quipement acquisition de la PAO                    Jul-93          Jul-94       May-95  directeur CAMEMD
20.31 document.  acquisition fonds bibliotheque IPN       May-94          Nov-94       May-96  directeur de l'IPN
20.41 consultants  recrutement des consultants            Jul-93          Nov-95       May-96  directeur de l'IPN
20.411 consultant preparation achats fonds bibliotheque   Jul-93          May-94      Aug-94  directeur de I'IPN
20.43 form. 6tr.   assurer stages                         Jul-93          Jan-94       Sep-95  directeur de l'IPN
20.43 form. locale organisation des seminaires            Nov-95          May-96       Feb-98  directeur de I'IPN
20.45 etudes     36 chercheurs pendant deux ans           Jul-93          Sep-93       Sep-95  directeur de I'IPN
20.51 gestion proj. gestion du projet                     Apr-93          Sep-93       Sep-00  directeur du projet
20.52 fonction.   fonctionnement de l'equipement          Apr-93          Apr-95       Sep-00  directeur de I'IPN
20.53 entretien    entretien de l'equipement              Apr-94          Apr-95       Sep-00  directeur de I'IPN
20.54 salaires  d6caisser salaires pour formation/ftranger  Jul-93        Jan-94       Sep-95  directeur de I'IPN
Sep-92  Sep-93  Sep-94  Sep-95  Sep-96  Sep-97  Sep-98  Sep-99  Sep-00
|   ,   I     I        f       |   ~   ~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I   + _ 
20.22 2quipement
20.31 document.
20.41 consultants
20.411 consultant
20.43 form. etr. 
20.43 form. locale                                    *                                         action
20.45 etudes                    pI
20.51 gestion proj.      *                                                                    H preparation
20.52 fonction. n__         _  ____                                                           mobilisation
20.53 entretien
20.54 salaires



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
Republique Algerienne Democratique et Populaire: Projet Pilote d'Appui a l'Enseignement Fondamental et Secondaire
AGENDA/COMPOSANTE 3: Am6liorer l'utilisation des moyens pid    * ues
achever         achever       achever        personne
code              description de I'action         mobilisation    pr6paration    action         responsable
30.11 genie civil  rehabiliter ie CM et construire l'UC                                  Jul-95   directeur du CAMEMD
30.21 6q. ateliers  equiper ateliers et laboratoires (CM et UC)  Jul-93     May-94       May-95  directeur du CAMEMD
30.23 eq. parc    acqquerir eq. de transport et manutention  Jul-93         Jan-94       Jul-95   directeur du CAMEMD
30.24 eq./PDR    acquerir pieces de rechange                Jul-93          Mar-94       Nov-94  directeur du CAMEMD
30.31 document.                                             Jul-93          Jan-94       Jan-95  directeur du CAMEMD
30.32 mat. scolaire                                         Mar-94          Sep-94       Nov-98  directeur du CAMEMD
30.33 produits                                              Jul-93          Jan-94       Jan-96  directeur du CAMEMD
30.41 consultant  etude technique, economique et ecologique  Jul-93         Oct-93       Jan-94  directeur du CAMEMD
30.43 form. etr.                                            Jul-93          Jan-94       Jun-98  directeur du CAMEMD
30.44 form. locale                                          Jul-93          Jan-94       Jun-99  directeur du CAMEMD
30.45 etude      achever etude sur la maintenance                                        Sep-94  directeur du CAMEMD
30.51 gestion proj. gestion du projet                      Apr-93           Sep-93       Sep-00  directeur du projet
30.52 fonction.   fonctionnement de l1'quipement            Apr-93          Sep-93       Sep-00  directeur du CAMEMD
30.53 entretien    entretien de l'equipement                Apr-93          Sep-93       Sep-00  directeur du CAMEMD
Sep-92  Sep-93  Sep-94  Sep-95  Sep-96  Sep-97  Sep-98  Sep-99  Sep-00
I           I                         I       I             
30.11 genie civil
30.21 eq. ateliers
30.23 eq. parc
30.24 6q./PDR
30.31 document.    _          _                                                                 _    _ -
30.32 ma.coaire                                                                                 U action
30.33 produits                                                                              LI preparation
30.41 consultant
30.43 form. etr.                                                                             * mobilisation
30.44 form. locale
30.45 etude
30.51 gestion proj.     -
30.52 fonction.
30.53 entretien



- 74 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of I
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Technical Cooperation and training
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
SRecialists (staffmonths)
1. DOE
Survey preparation and
follow up                             3      2           2                   7
Methodology and analysis of
quality and efficiency indicators    3                                        3
2. IPN
Organization of seminars                             11    11       3    3     28
Curriculum studies                        3     3                               6
Selection of library documentation        1                                     1
3. CAMEMD
Maintenance and safety study       3      2     -    _-     -            -      5
TOTAL                              3    12      5    11    13      3      3    50
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
Local training (nb staff trained)
1.DOE
Inspector-oriented seminar
(10-day seminars)                         110   330   495   623   275   1,833
2. IPN
Inspector-oriented seminars
(2-week seminars)                                      180   180             360
3. CAMEMD
CAMEMD Staff                                   20    20    20    20    20       100
Laboratory technicians                        200   200   200   200   200   1,000
Science teachers                             5800  58    5800  50   .        29.000
TOTAL                                        6130  6350  6695  6823  6295  32,293
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  199 2    9    Total
Training abroad (staffmonths)
1. DOE
Development of Assessment
and evaluation skills                 80    20                               100
2. IPN
Curriculum and textbook
development                                 54    54                        108
3. CAMEMD
Maintenance and safety skills           -       6        6      6  7      7
TOTAL                                   80    80    60       6     7      7    240



Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
Algeria
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Project Impact Monitoring Indicators
Objectives to be achieved              Inputs provided                         Expected benefits and                Description of qualitative        When, how and by whom to
characteristics of beneficiairy   impact indicators                    measure
groups and/or institutions
Improving the MEN's existing           - Training for about 20 Algerian        Contribute to improved               - Improved measurement             -Measured by the DOE and
institutional capacity in              testing and assessment specialists   quantitative and qualitative            techniques of pupils'             COSP staff throughout
assessing pupils' learning             in DOE and COSP (about 100 staff        measurement of pupils' learning   learning achievement in the    project implementation;
achievements and in measuring          months)                                 performance through staff            DOE at central level and in    - Annual project
quality and efficiency in              - About nine representative             training, pedagogic research          the six participating COSP        Implementation Review,
education through:                     surveys in each of the six              and improved assessment of           - Introduction of improved        Mid-term project
(i) development and introduction    participating wilayate (each of            learning outcomes in the six         local training techniques         implementation review
of a pilot learning assessment         about 2,000 to 4,000 pupils) of         pilot wilayate, affecting about   for inspectors and teachers    and the Project
system;                                learning achievements in 4              1.3 million pupils in 2,400           in testing, assessment and       Completion Review
(ii) improvement of existing           disciplines (Arabic, French,            basic and secondary schools          orientation and selection of   - Measurement through
pupil testing, orientation and         mathematics and Science) covering                                            pupils in the six pilot            questionnaires, field
selection procedures through           four levels: 1,2 and 3 cycle of         A more effective pedagogic           wilayas                            surveys, and evaluation         I
training and the creation of           basic and secondary education           information system, thereby           - Expansion of the               missions by specialists         . 
computerized test-item banks;          - Technical assistence (about 10        enabling education decision           assessment system to the          among MEN staff at          | n
(iii) development of six groups        staff months)                           makers to develop improved           seven additional wilayas          central, wilayate and
of standard quality and                - National and wilaya-based             longer-term reform strategies        which are to be added and          school levels
efficiency indicators based on         seminars for about 1,800 wilaya-        based on reliable qualitative         financed by the MEN in a          - Revised curricula of
the OECD model; and                    based inspectors and pedagogic          and quantitative assessment and   second phase (expected 1997-   Arabic, French.
(iv) dissemination of the              counsellors                             pedagogic research                   98)                               Mathematics and Science
assessment results to the              - Computers and technical                                                     - Improved quality and            at 1, 2 and 3 cycle of
education community                    equipment for DOE and COSP              - Staff (20) of the Direction         relevance of curricula in        basic and secondary
- Documentation and pedagogic           de l'Orientation et                  the four covered subjects as   education
materials                               d'Evaluation (DOE)                    compared to international
- Staff of the six                   standards (OECD education
participating COSP in the            indicators model)
Wilayate
- About 1,800 school inspectors
and pedagogic counsellors
through dissemination of
results during local seminars



Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
Algeria
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Project Impact Monitoring Indicators
Objectives to be achieved              Inputs provided                         Expected benefits and                Description of qualitative        When, how and by whom to
characteristics of beneficiairy   impact indicators                    measure
groups and/or institutions
Strengthening of pedagogic             - Implementation of pedagogic           - IPN staff                          - See the above                   - See the above on
research capacity of the IPN           research programs on design and         - Central and local inspectors    - Improved feed-back to and    Annual Project
aiming to improve the coherence        evaluation of curricula and on          for Arabic and Physical              from inspectors and teachers   Implementation review
of curriculum content between          presentation and their links to         Sciences                             on pedagogic research              and mid-term review
subjects and different levels of    presentation and lay-out of texts    - Teachers of Arabic and                   results in the topics              - Periodic IPN
education: 1,2 and 3 cycles of         for schoolbooks in Arabic and           Physical Sciences in basic and    covered                               specialist evaluation
basic and secondary education in    Physical Sciences                           secondary education                  - Improved linkages between    reports
Arabic and Physical Sciences           - Provision of training for 36 IPN                                            curricula and revised texts       - Provision of revised
specialists (108 staff months),                                              for the prescribed                schoolbooks in Arabic
technical assistence (35 staff                                               schoolbooks at 1,2 and 3          and Physical Sciences by
months) and technical equipment                                              cycles of basic and                1998/99
(repro- and desktop publishing,                                              secondary levels in Arabic
computers and software)                                                      and the Physical Sciences
- Carrying out a study of                                                    - Development of improved
schoolbook provision and financing                                           teacher documentation for
mechanisms                                                                   Arabic and Physical Sciences                                     CO
- Dissemination of pedagogic                                                 at all levels of basic and
research results by providing                                                secondary education
local training seminars for about                                            - Improved availability of
600 wilaya-based inspectors and                                              pedagogic background
diffusion of 12,000 newsletters                                              information and improved
among schools                                                                functionning of the IPN
- Provision of about 5,000 library                                           library
books, research journals and
periodicals as well as training
and technical assistance for the
IPN library



Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
Algeria
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Project Impact Monitoring Indicators
Objectives to be achieved             Inputs provided                         Expected benefits and               Description of qualitative        When, how and by whom to
characteristics of beneficiairy   impact indicators                   measure
groups and/or institutions
Improved provision and more           - Provision of metric compendiums    Improved supply, management,                                             - See the above on
effective use of pedagogic            to about 10,500 existing and 2,500   maintenance and use of modern                                            Annual Project
materials                             grade 1-6 schools under                 pedagogic materials in about                                          Implementation Reviews
construction                           14,000 basic and secondary                                            and mid-term review
- Provision of pedagogic materials   schools, contributing to better
and technical equipment                learning for about 5 million
(electrical typewriters,               pupils and improved teaching.of
photocopier, stencil machines) to    about 200,000 teachers
750 grade 7-9 and 250 secondary        - Improved competency in the
schools under construction             use and maintenance of these
- Provision of school science          materials for about 100 higher
laboratory products to about 3,500   technicans, 1,000 school-
grade 7-12 schools                     laboratory technicians and
- Rehabilitation of physical           about 29,000 science teachers
storage and redistribution                                                                                                                  _
facilities at CAMEMD's regional                                                                                                          l
antenna Boufarik
- Provision of spare parts,
technical equipment and repair of
scientific instruments for
maintenance
- provision of updated technical
documentation, training, technical
assistence and computers



- 78 -
Annexe 11
Page 1 de 2
ALGERIA
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Terms of reference for the maintenance and safety study
Background
1. The Center for Provision and Maintenance of Equipment and Pedagogic Materials
(CAMEMD) was created in December 1986. CAMEMD is an public institution (EPAI)
operating under responsibility of the Ministry of National Education (MEN). Its
main office is in Algiers (Kouba). CAMEMD has 8 Regional Centers in different
wilayas and in total about 250 staff. It is responsible for a network of about
16,000 basic and secondary schools. CAMEMD is headed by a Director under which
are a secretary-general and 4 deputy-directors (its present stucture has been
determined by ministerial 'decret' of May 24, 1992). CAMEMD's objectives are the
following: (i) management of school equipment and pedagogical materials and their
maintenance; (ii) procurement and distribution of school equipment and pedagogic
materials; (iii) organising and providing repair and maintenance services for
school equipment and pedagogic materials; (iv) organising, developing and
carrying out of training for technicians, school laboratory assistants and other
school staff using the equipment and pedagogic materials; and (v) providing and
maintaining an adequate technical documentation and information system. In order
to achieve these objectives, the CAMEMD is required, in the framework of the
National Economic and Social Development Plan, to carry out the following tasks:
(a) develop experimental pedagogical materials and equipment, including those
related to science and technology subjects taught at basic and secondary schools,
and provide their installation; (b) acquire, store and distribute pedagogical
materials and equipment to all basic and secondary schools, teacher training
institutes and other national education training establishments; (c) undertake
technical, economical and safety studies in order to exploit and promote the
potential of national production of school equipment and pedagogical materials;
(d) have responsibility of for procurement of school equipment and pedagogic
materials through national and international competitive bidding; (e) provide the
necessary basic training for technicians and other personnel in order to ensure
an optimal use and maintenance all equipment and materials; (f) organising
seminars and (re)training courses for school technicians and teachers; (g)
distribute relevant technical documentation on the use and maintenance of school
equipment and pedagogical materials.
2.    The main objectives of the maintenance and safety study are the following:
-     Indentification and quantitative and qualitative registration of school
equipment and pedagogic materials in basic and secondary schools and
tertiairy training institutes;
1/ Etablianmmet Public & caract6re A-inistratif (EPA).



- 79 -
Annexe 11
Page 2 de 2
Evaluation of spare parts and repair needs and development of a management
system for spare part and repair services;
Development of a system for procurement, production and distribution of
relevant technical documentation related to repair, maintenance and safety
of school equipment and pedagogic materials;
Development of a system of different levels of maintenance, environmental
and safety services;
Definition of the needs in physical infrastructure and local maintenance
networks to respond to maintenance, environmental and safety needs in
schools and tertiairy education establishments;
Development and definition of a (re)training plan for managers, higher and
middle level technicians and school staff;
-     Development and implementation of a computerized monitoring, evaluation
and intervention system;
-     Development of a system to evaluate costs and financing of maintenance,
environmental and safety services;
-     Identification of environment and safety problems related to the use and
maintenance of school equipment and pedagogic materials and formulation of
proposals for improvement;
Activities and tasks
3.    The project will finance about three mstaff months of consultant services
to assist the CAMEMD in carrying out the safety and maintenance study. CAMEMD
and the consultants (who will have an adequate professional experience in the
different areas described above) will evaluate and analyse the procurement,
production, distribution, use by CAMEMD and school technicians, and maintenance
and safety mechanisms related to school equipment and pedagogic materials. The
study will also make recommendations for the development of an overall
operational strategy for CAMEMD and/or improvement of existing procedures.
Required qualification of the consultants
4.    Consultant bureaux of agencies or individual consultants with adequate
professional experience in the areas described above will be selected.
Timetable for implementation
5.    The study will be launched by the CAMEMD before the end of 1993.
J: \Alg\PA083\LENN\English\ANX11.TXR jb930218



- 80 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 1
ALGERIA
Basic and Secondary Education Support project
List of bid invitations to be launched before the proiect effectiveness date
1.    Training:
-     Training for the CAMEMD staff
2.    Consultants
-     Consultants for the design and implementation of the pilot system
for learning assessment and quality and efficiency evaluation;
-     Consultants for the maintenance and safety study to be carried out
by the CAMEMD;
3.    Pedagogic materials and equipment:
-     6000 packages with metric compendiums for the grade 1-6 basic
education schools;
-     Scientific and reprographic equipment for 150 grade 7-9 basic
education schools;
Scientific and reprographic equipment for 50 secondary schools;
4.    CAMEMD equipment:
-     Equipment for the improved provision, storage and redistribution
facilities of CAMEMD.
J: \ALG\PA083\LENN\English\AJIX12.ALG jb930218



- 81 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
Algeria
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Fiche Techniques:
- Institut pedagogique National, Ministere de l'education, Alger;
October 1991;
- Cadre d'elaboration du programme de formation et de
perfectionnement a l'6tranger, Ministere de l1'ducation, Alger;
October 1991;
- Expdrience dans le domaine de la recherche pedagogique, sa
restructuration en fonction des nouvelles orientations, Institut
pedagogique National, Ministere de l'6ducation, Alger; October
1991;
- Organisation, fonctionnement et gestion des Centres d'O.S.P.,
Direction de l'Orientation et de l'Evaluation, Ministere de
l'education, Alger, 1992.
- Mission, structure et fonction du Centre National de Formation
des Cadres, Ministere de l1'ducation, Alger; October 1991;
- Restructuration de l'enseignement secondaire, Ministere de
l1'ducation, Alger; March 1992;
2.    Organization, financing, structure and management of the CAMEMD,
Consultant working papers, November 1992.
3.   L'amelioration de l'efficacite des actions de formation des enseignants
et des cadres au niveau des ecoles fondamentales et secondaires en Algerie,
Consultant report, October 1991.
4.    Formation des personnels de l'education: recyclage et perfectionnement,
bilan et perspectives, Direction de Formation, Ministere de l'education,
Alger, May 1988.
5.    Programme de perfectionnement et de recyclage des personnels de
1'education et de formation, Direction de Formation, Ministere de l1'ducation,
February 1988.
6.    Analyse des composantes 'Etudes de la Qualite du Systeme Educatif' et
'Appui a la Recherche Pedagogique de l'IPN', Consultant report, June 1992.



- 82 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
7.    Liste des indicateurs possibles, Document pr6paratoire, Consultant
working paper, October 1991.
8.    Preparation de l1'valuation dans le projet d'appui de l'enseignement
fondamental et secondaire, Consultant working paper, 1992
9.    Informations statistiques 1989 - 1990, Direction de la Planification,
Ministere de 1'6ducation, Alger.
10.   Informations statistiques 1991 - 1992, Direction de la Planification,
Ministere de l'education, Alger.
11.   L'education en chiffres, annee scolaire 1991 - 1992, Direction de
Planification, Ministere de l'education, Alger; February 1992.
12.   Comment rendre plus efficaces l1'laboration et la distribution de
manuels scolaires, Consultant Report, July 1991.
13.   L'6volution du secteur 6ducatif, Direction de Planification, Ministere
de l'education; February 1991.
14.   Plan National pour 1992, le developpement des secteurs, Conseil National
de Planification (CNP), January 1992.



IBRD 24541
AL GE R A                                                                                               M  e d i t e r r a n e a n                          S e a
BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT    1                                                                                                                                                                           -t,  
PROJECT D'APPUI A L 'ENSEIGNEMENT FONDAMENTAL                                                                                                                                                                          21  E3
ET SECONDAIRE                                                                                                                                          18 
__                                                                                                                                                           *.
< 0 w 0 --' J' i \ i; iev 5 -zz4° 124.:(t~~~~~AI, D,                                                                      1 
2 cl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-, ~~~~               ~            ~           ~           5     /Kecl,                                         eb,~ 
A - - -    -                      -   '                                                                                                                                                                                                       J-
!  '  <                                                                   ,2' 3   t 1L^gfouo;''1A!12;! i
1  \T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.                                                                                                                          A                 .9 >4O\~  - \>_ 
-, ~~~~~~~~~8-7- 
14                                                                                          40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
20  V,  <          -                                                                                                                 :
3                                                                                              3
WILAYA NAMES AND PROJECT LOCATIONS P3)                                                                              --- PROJE'TWILAYA                                 0   TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                    , .
NOMS DES WILAYATE ET LIEUX DU PROJET (13)                          COSP:                   CAMEND:                          PROJE7 TLAYATE                                 VILLE5ETv LLAGES                                        tAIGIERS
1 ADRAR                 DJELFA              ILLIZI                    I ADRAR                5 EATNA                             PAVED NATIONAL ROADS                      t   WILAYA hEADOCUARTERS                                                  /
CHIEF                 JIJEL             34 BORDJ BOU ARRERIDJ       13 TLEMCEN             9 BLIDA BROUFARItI                   ROUTES NATIONALES                              SIEGES DES WILAYATE
LAGHCOUAT             SETIF                EOUMERDES               16 ALGER               14 TIARET
OUM EL BOUAGHI   20 SAIDA                  EL TARF                 24 GUELMA,             16 ALGER R(OUJA)                      PAVED WILAYA ROADS                       :D  NATIONAL CAPFAL .-
5 BATNA                 SKIKDA              TSNDOUF                  25 CONSTANTINE         20 SAIDA                              ROLTES SECONDAIRES                            CAPIEALE                                                         30
BEJAIA             22 SIDI BEL ABRES       T1SSEMSILT              31 ORAN                22 SIDI BEt ARRES                                                                                                      .       8    _       -
BISKRA                ANNABA               EL OUED                                        24 GUEMA                             RAILADS                                          LAA  UNDARS
ECHIAR      i      24 GUELMA               KHENCHELA                                      30 OUARGLA GTOUGGOERTI                VOlES FERREES               -IMTLES DES WILAYArE                             A i
9 BLIDA              25 CONSTANTINE          SOUK AHRAS                                     34 BORDJ 3OU ARRERIDJ
BOUIRA                MEDEA                TIPAZA                                                                               ,R                                                                                                         :     -T 
TAMANRASSET           MOSTAGANEM           OILA                                                                                AERPORTS                                      INTERNATIONAL60UNDARIES        iE  R                                  A
TEBESSA               MSILA                AIN DEFLA                                                                             ELIMITE5 INTERNATINALES
13 TLEMCEN            - MASCARA               NAAMA                                                                                                                                                                            .                  t             2'
14 4TARET             30 OUARGLA              AIN TEMOUCHENT           Ths mop Up, been prep 3ed b        B rb. W0,Id Bo-k ,,oIP e  ooo.ly lor e
TIZI UZU              1 ORAN               GHARDAIAr                      e InIeMoIonoI P,nonce Co,po,opo,, P1he d o3'e,n012ed rf e V o
16 ALGER                 EL EAYADH            RELIZANE                 Eoo,doe, ,ho_n on 5m  dO 00 LIp/p o" he pen of Tf e Wo.ld Ro-E o,r                                                                                          1o ..              /
hbe Inpern.oponel Ppnon_e CoPE-po--on o-y tLdg-en- on Poe IegoI oops of onf                      KILOMETERS                            _ 2p*
herraospryor ony eodopsemenl or occepPonce ofE,h Eoundorpes                                                                                                          - *T  /oJ
JANUARY 1803.



