Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22455-ALG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35730; SCL-3573A; SCPD-3573S)
ON A LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF 40US$ MILLION
TO THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR
A BASIC & SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
09/10/2001
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar
1.00 DZD = US$ 0.013
US$ 1.00 = 77.06 DZD
FISCAL YEAR
January I st December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAMEMD              Centre d'Approvisionnement et de Maintenance des Equipements et des Moyens
Dicdactiques (Center for Procurement and Maintenance of Equipment and
Pedagogic Materials)
CNF                Centre National de Fonnation des Cadres (National Staff Training Center)
COSP               Centre d'Orientation Scolaire et de Selection Professionnelle (School Orientation
and Selection Center)
DOE                Directions Chargees de l'Orientation et de l'Evaluation (Department
for Orientation and Evaluation)
IPN                Institut Pedagogique National (National Pedagogic Institute)
INRE               Institut National de la Recherche en Education (National Institute of Education
Research)
MNE                Ministry of National Education
PMU                Project Management Unit
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:   Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    David Steel



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALGERIA
BASIC & SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     7
6. Sustainability                                                                         8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          9
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                        11
9. Partner Comments                                                                      12
10. Additional Information                                                               13
Annex I. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004954                                         Project Name: BASIC & SECONDARY
EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Team Leader: David J. Steel                                 TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: September 17, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: BASIC & SECONDARY EDUCATION SUPPORT L/C/TFNumber: CPL-35730;
PROJECT                                                         SCL-3573A;
SCPD-3573S
Country/Department: ALGERIA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/20/1991                                Ef4&ctive: 03/23/1994
Appraisal:  11/19/1992                                  MTR: 04/02/1999
Approval:  03/16/1993                                Closing: 03/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOVT. OF ALGERIA/MIN. OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib                           Caio Koch-Weser
Countly Manager:      Christian Delvoie                           Pieter P. Bottelier
Sector Manager:       Jacques Baudouy                             Roslyn Hees
Team Leader at ICR:   David Steel
ICR Primary Author:   Dung-Kim Pham
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Instituetional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower PerJbrmance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
As indicated in the appraisal report, the project will be the first step in a long-termn process of



improving the quality of learning acquired by students and increasing the efficiency of resource use in basic
and secondary education.
This objective is clearly stated and correctly reflects the government's strategy with respect to
educational quality and efficiency as well as the government's decision to limit the project scope to the
immediate needs of those sub-sectors. In the absence of a Country Assistance Strategy, this objective
emerged from a sector study: "Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria - Improving Quality and
Efficiency in Basic and Secondary Education," World Bank Report No. 8912-AL, August 1990, prepared
jointly with the government. It identified and analyzed a number of organizational/structural and
pedagogical problems and offered potential solutions. The project's objective was thus both realistic and
relevant. Since the quantitative goals of increasing school enrollment were largely achieved by the
Government, the project focused its priority to improving quality and efficiency of the sub-sectors in the
areas of assessment of learning achievements, pedagogic research, and pedagogic materials. Furthermore,
the project simply aimed to initiate the process of quality and efficiency reform, which will be a long and
demanding undertaking.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project comprises three components. A description of the Government entities involved in the
implementation of the project appears in Section 10, "Additional Information."
Component I: Design and introduction of a pilot system for assessing learning achievements, quality, and
efficiency. Cost: US$ 3.7 million. This component, managed by the Centres d'Orientation Scolaire and de
Selection Professionnelle - COSP (School Orientation and Selection Centers) in six wilayas aimed to (i)
increase the capabilities of the Ministry of National Education (MNE) in the area of knowledge and quality
assessment; and (ii) disseminate infornation on new assessment techniques, methods, and practices within
the education community and among decision-makers.
Component II: Pedagogic research. Cost: $US 2.3 million. This component supported training and
implementation activities linked to the pedagogic research programs of Institut Pedagogique National -
IPN (National Pedagogic Institute). In 1996, the name of IPN was changed to Institut National de
Recherche en Education - INRE (National Institute of Education Research). In the context of the project,
this change did not affect Component II because INRE's mission was still to perform education-related
research, evaluate the education system, and develop and test teaching methods.
Component III: Improved provision and more efficient use of pedagogic materials. Cost: US$ 58 million.
The purpose of this component was to improve the supply and use of pedagogic materials in schools
through: (i) provision of pedagogic materials for about 10,500 existing and 2,500 grade 1-6 schools under
construction, and 750 grade 7-9 and 250 secondary schools under construction; (ii) improved provision and
use of school science laboratory products in about 3,500 grade 7-12 schools, rehabilitation of the Centre
d'Approvisionnement et de Maintenance des Equipements et des Moyens Didactiques - CAMEMD
(Center for Procurement and Maintenance of Equipment and Pedagogic Materials) storage and
redistribution facilities for such materials and the provision of related equipment and staff training; and (iii)
- 2 -



provision of spare parts, equipment, technical assistance, staff training and improved CAMEMD
maintenance facilities for improved maintenance services to schools.
The design of the three components was well in line with the project objectives. Although aware of
the decline in educational quality and output, the MNE lacked the proper tools to measure the system's
performance and to assess the impact of the reform measures. The activities of Components I and II filled
this gap by providing the MNE with an essential lever. Component I also included a powerful tool for
disseminating the results of the assessments to decision-makers and obtaining feedback from them.
Other elements essential to improving the quality and efficiency of the education system are an
adequate supply of pedagogic materials and their efficient utilization. Most schools were without any
pedagogic materials, and the supplies and equipment necessary to implementation of the reforms at the
basic education level had not been provided. Component III helped make up this deficit by supplying the
schools with the appropriate pedagogic materials. It also included an important element of ensuring a more
efficient utilization of those materials by training high-level technicians and a large number of science
teachers in their use and application.
The design of the components took into account experience from prior loans by choosing a simple
implementation structure. Thus, implementation of each component was entrusted to one of the entities
operating under the authority of the MNE, the project activities being arranged to fit into each one's work
program. However, this design did not take into account the restrictive administrative arrangement for
Component I, in which technical implementation and budgetary execution were entrusted to two different
bodies (one institution under the ministry's supervisory authority, INRE; and a central MNE directorate,
the Direction de l'Evaluation, de l'Orientation et de la Communication - DEOC (Directorate of
Assessment, Orientation, and Communications). This arrangement was an obstacle to the efficient
implementation of Component I (see details below).
3.4 Revised Components:
Whereas the objectives were not revised, the "quantitative" side of Component III was slightly
modified. In physical terms, the laboratory products packaging and storage unit was dropped and the
overall spare parts requirement scaled down. The unutilized funds were reallocated to supply a number of
additional schools whose facilities had been destroyed by acts of terrorism, a total of 193 primary schools
and 76 general secondary schools. In financial terms, of an unutilized balance of US$11.8 million, US$5
million was canceled in July, 2000 at the request of the Government, while over US$6 million financed the
additional schools.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality of project preparation is considered satisfactory based on several factors, of which the
following are the most notable: (i) the project design was the result of an in-depth sector study, directly
meeting the priorities of the Algerian govenmment, which, at the time, was looking at the qualitative aspects
of the system after achieving substantial quantitative improvements in school enrollment; (ii) the modest
scope of the objective which addressed the early stages of a longer process of improving the quality of
learning acquired by the students and increasing the sector's efficiency; (iii) given the risks associated with
Algeria's political and economic situation and with the limited project implementation capacity of
government agencies, a simple project design was essential; (iv) preparatory steps taken in advance of the
project, such as the issue of invitations to bid on educational materials and of requests for proposals from
- 3 -



international technical consultants prior to loan effectiveness.
However, the quality of project preparation could have been enhanced by the presence of
performance indicators, with clear distinction between output and outcome indicators, with base values and
target values. These indicators would have contributed to a better assessment of achievement of the
development objectives and project sustainability. Also, viewed retrospectively, while most on-site missions
were not feasible because of security concerns, including in particular the mid-term review mission, the
project could have provided for an impact evaluation study towards the end to evaluate outcomes as well as
identify areas in need of additional action. Furthermore, the study evaluating the system of textbook
production and distribution, and the study on the maintenance and security of pedagogic materials in
schools should also have benefitted from advance preparation, as indicated in (iv) above.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite the difficult economic and political climate in Algeria during the project implementation
period, the Government has supported the project objective and continued to assign priority to improving
the quality and efficiency of the system. Overall, the project has achieved its objective. It has provided the
MNE with a basic capacity for assessment of learning achievements and education research which will
serve as a foundation on which the MNE can continue to build in order to better gauge what students are
learning, what is being taught, and how it is being taught (Section 6 "Sustainability").
Pilot system for assessing learning achievements, quality, and efficiency: The objective has been
partially achieved. The pilot system has not yet been set up. However, substantial experience in pedagogic
techniques of assessment and in survey preparation and monitoring has been acquired as a result of the
work carried out during the project in connection with pedagogic performance surveys of the following
disciplines and levels: Arabic language (3rd, 6th and 9th grade of basic education), mathematics (3rd, 6th
and 9th grade of basic education and I st grade of secondary education), French language (9th grade of
basic education). DEOC also succeeded in establishing operational indicators, based on those of the
OECD, to facilitate assessment of educational quality and efficiency. This task will be continued
systematically to serve as an assessment tool.
Pedagogic research: The objective was achieved, and the outcomes are encouraging, as shown by
the mastering of the application of pedagogic research methodologies and techniques by INRE. As a
corollary to the analysis of school programs undertaken by INRE, curricula and textbook content were
revised, using in-house capacities. The outcomes were widely distributed (through the publication of study
and training workshop reports), including to the decision-makers in the education system, particularly the
National Commission on Education Reform set up by the President of the Republic. Furthemmore, the
education community now has more information available in the area of pedagogic research and new
teaching methods thanks to the INRE library, which has modemized and strengthened its documentation
resources.
Improvedprovision and more efficient use ofpedagogic materials: This objective was achieved
but with one significant qualification. While the "physical" inputs of pedagogic materials were fully
achieved and beneficial, CAMEMD's services remained centralized and their quality did not improve
much. An assessment based on a sampling of teachers and students in establishments served by the Center,
in Guelma and Tlemcen, revealed that the availability of equipment had led to better application of
curricula and progressions and greater student interest in classroom and practical work. However, it
- 4 -



appeared that the services delivered by CAMEMD in the areas of procurement, repair, and maintenance
were inefficient. The quality of the materials received was variable, their arrival was often not
synchronized with the start of the school year, packages of supplies were sometimes incomplete, and
schools were often turning to the private sector for repairs. The maintenance study, which was not
completed, would have enabled CAMEMD to redefine its responsibilities within the context of
decentralization and of a closer association with the private sector.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project components had varying outputs.
Component I - Design and introduction of a pilot system for assessing learning achievements, quality
and efficiency (implementing agencies: DEOC and INRE)
The MNE did not have sufficient capacity to assess the students' learning achievements. Although
the educators were aware of the decline in the quality and efficiency of education, the reasons were not fully
understood, let alone acknowledged. This component aimed to improve the MNE's capacities for assessing
learning achievements and quality and to disseminate the new assessment techniques and practices to the
education community and the decision-makers.
This component was achieved only partially. The activities linked to the design of a pilot system
for assessing learning achievements were not fully accomplished. The discipline surveys targeting the
different education levels did take place, but this activity was suspended at the critical phase of analyzing
the results and preparing the reports. Consequently, neither the activities linked to tests of the system in the
six COSPs nor those scheduled for the second phase in seven additional wilaya took place. The multiplier
effect of the training received abroad in assessment methodology was very modest, and the training of
on-site inspectors did not come about.
Within the framework of this component, it was also planned to develop quality and efficiency
indicators for the education system, based on the OECD model. This task was performed satisfactorily.
Indicators for 1999 and 2000 were established. The 2000 report, containing 29 indicators, has been sent to
the printers and will be distributed to the education community.
Although the extent to which this component was accomplished fell short of expectations, it did
contribute to the strengthening of the DEOC's institutional capacities in the areas of survey preparation and
execution and data quality verification. It also led to the development of capacities for devising
performance indicators for the education system.
Component II - Pedagogic research (Implementing agency: INRE)
Given the inadequacy of INRE's pedagogic research capacities it was unable to make a systematic
evaluation of the impact of the reform measures, and, consequently, of the quality of the instruction
provided, or to develop curricula based on pedagogic programs. The purpose of this component was to
strengthen INRE's capacities for analyzing pedagogic programs so as to improve the consistency between
disciplines and basic and secondary education cycles. Within the project framework, only two disciplines
(Arabic and science) were covered.
Implementation of this component was satisfactory. Both the quantitative and the qualitative goals
- 5 -



were achieved, and sometimes even exceeded. As planned by the project, 36 experts in pedagogy were
trained in curriculum and textbook design. This training was then passed on to wilaya personnel.
Pedagogic research programs, supported by international technical assistance, were also conducted, and the
findings distributed to large numbers of inspectors and teachers by means of seminars and publications.
An assessment of the programs covered by the component (Arabic and science) was carried out and even
expanded to other programs and other textbooks in subjects such as philosophy, history, geography,
mathematics, and French. The results of the programs assessment were published in a memorandum, of
which 6,000 copies were printed for distribution within the education community. A large number of
seminars were organized and brochures on their conclusions also produced.
Two outcomes are worth mentioning:
-      A number of textbooks in Arabic for the different education cycles, for the disciplines of science,
letters, and mathematics were revised to take account of the results of the programs assessment carried out
by INRE. In future, INRE will include among its functions the work of preparing textbook specifications.
-     INRE was able to make the results of its pedagogic research available to the National Commission
on Education Reform and thereby contribute to the Commission's work.
Also within the framework of the component, INRE was able to add around 5,000 technical
documentation to its library. Although the library still lacks infrastructure and furniture, its filing system
is up and running and, with a satisfactory volume of documentation, it has been able to open its doors to
educators, researchers and students in the area of education science. The attendance rate at the library,
which has become a benchmark, is a good indicator of the availability and quality of its documents and of
the services offered to researchers and teachers.
Component II - Improved supply and more effective use of pedagogic materials (Implementing
agency: CAMEMD)
In the absence of materials (particularly for grades I - 9, since implementation of the new basic
education system required new teaching inputs), and given that pedagogic materials represent one of the
essential inputs contributing to an improved educational environment, this component was designed to
provide appropriate pedagogic materials to around 14,000 primary schools (representing 85 percent of
existing schools) and 250 secondary schools (35 percent of existing schools) and to establish a central
laboratory products storage and packaging unit. Its purpose was also to make the use of pedagogic
materials more efficient by strengthening CAMEMD's maintenance facilities.
The quantitative goals of this component, i.e. number of schools receiving pedagogic materials,
were achieved: the 100 percent coverage rate set for the year 2000 was met, and stocks are available for
the new primary schools. A further equipment tranche was obtained to supply 269 additional
establishments. This financing was provided by funds coming from the dropped laboratory products
storage and packaging unit, and from the reduced needs in equipment spare parts. Activities connected
with the unit were abandoned for reasons of security, but arrangements were made to provide the
laboratory products to the schools. A total of 27 professionals received training abroad (nine in IT and
management, ten in machinery/tools, four in reeling/coiling, and four in electronics).
However, the maintenance and security study included in the project, which was to have been
completed by December 31, 1994, was launched in only early 1999. Because of the country's security
situation at the time, the consultants were unable to conduct the study and the contract was canceled by
- 6 -



mutual agreement between CAMEMD and the Bank. Since then, with the evolving economic environment
and the expansion in the scope of CAMEMD's responsibilities, it was decided to redefine the purpose of
the study, dividing it into two different studies, one concerning a strategy for the procurement and
maintenance of school equipment, and the other concerning the development of a maintenance master plan.
At the end of the project, no action had been taken on these two studies. CAMEMD did state, however,
that it planned to undertake the studies on its own after the project closing date as it recognized their
importance.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate /f return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's contribution to the building of institutional capacities varies among the different
implementing agencies within the MNE. Those capacities were acquired thanks to the commitment of the
MNE's professionals, their determination to improve the system, and the productive use of the international
technical assistance furnished within the project framework. Where INRE is concerned, the impact has
been substantial. Its staff has acquired an understanding of the techniques of analysis and design of school
programs and assessment of subjects taught, such that INRE has been able to expand these activities to
cover subjects not included in the project. INRE professionals are now performing tasks that will enable
them to upgrade teaching methods and develop pedagogic objectives for textbook content. In the case of
DEOC and CAMEMD, the impact is less marked because of the non-completion of "qualitative" activities.
Thanks to the surveys conducted, DEOC and the education community (inspectors and teachers) in the
wilaya have acquired a familiarity with techniques for assessing learning achievements, supervision and
survey methods, and validation of results. Using its own capacities, DEOC set up test surveys during a
period when no technical assistance was available. In CAMEMD's case, this division has strengthened its
conpetence in terms of project management, enabling it to understand the need to plan, monitor, and
synchronize the different stages of procurement and delivery of the materials to schools.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.] Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic crisis of 1998 and 1999 resulting from the drop in the price of oil in 1998 was a
hindrance to project implementation because it led to a substantial reduction in the project budget. This
was a particular obstacle to Component I activities, since it affected funding for the surveys. In addition, a
succession of changes in the Bank's project teams affected "qualitative" activities to a certain degree. The
section entitled "Bank Performance" (see below) discusses this factor in detail. In general, inadequate
attention was paid to the monitoring and analysis of the assessment and pedagogic research activities.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Thanks to the Ministry of National Education 's commitment to its policy of improving the quality
and efficiency of basic and secondary education, the project was able to continue working toward its
- 7 -



objective. This was in spite of the country's security situation which had an adverse influence on project
implementation. Site visits by international technical assistance consultants and the Bank were not able to
take place. In addition, loan disbursements were held up because the suppliers were having difficulties
establishing letters of credit.
Budgetary constraints during two budget years (1998 and 1999) particularly affected the
implementation of Component I, which required funding to pay the DEOC staff participating in the
surveys. The Government's employment policy encouraging early retirement lessened the multiplier effects
of training, since certain staff took the technical training offered and then left government service. In
addition, the complex administrative procedures involved in payment and customs clearance in general
delayed loan disbursements, but also delayed, and sometimes even prevented, the procurement of certain
technical periodicals and journals for INRE's library.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Because of the lack of coordination, combined with a string of changes in DEOC and INRE
professional staffs, Component I was only partially satisfactory. As noted above (see end of paragraph
3.3), technical implementation and budgetary control under Component 1, entrusted to different entities,
disrupted the progress of that component's activities. The slow-down in the management and overall
project coordination on the part of the Project Management Unit also affected project implementation, as
the difficulties were not acknowledged in time for corrective decisions to be made.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was estimated at US$64 million, of which US$40 million was financed by
the Bank loan and the remainder by the Algerian Government. During implementation, the unused funds
resulting from the decision to drop the laboratory products storage and packaging unit and reduce spare
parts requirements (resulting from an initial overestimation) were reallocated to an additional tranche of
pedagogic materials for 193 primary schools and 76 secondary schools whose facilities had been damaged
by acts of terrorism.
At the Goverrnent's request, US$5 million was canceled from the loan in August 2000 following a
review of disbursement forecasts. At the closing of the project books (31 July 2001), after the 4
month-grace period, a total of US$30.7 million had been disbursed. The undisbursed balance will be
canceled. The loan withdrawal rate was primarily affected by the following factors: (i) complex payment
procedures (see 5.2 above) and (ii) the cancellation of two contracts for pedagogic materials under the
additional round of procurement, since the suppliers were unable to respect the delivery date imposed by
the loan closing date.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of this project is probable because the quality and efficiency of education are
central elements of the reform process introduced by the National Commission on Education Reform and
under way since May 2000. Moreover, the Government is aware that the actions supported by the project
are essential to continued improvement of the system. They contribute to an understanding of the causes of
declining quality and efficiency so that the appropriate steps may be taken to bring about improvements.
- 8 -



The Govermment has also asked the Bank to undertake a review of public expenditure in the social sectors,
to help it identify institutional reforms likely to improve efficiency and enable it to rationalize resource
utilization. This report was completed in August 2001.
More specifically, the project's sustainability is already assured by INRE, which has expanded its
work program and textbook analysis and revision to other subjects. DEOC will continue to work on
developing a system for assessing learning achievements, and will continue to produce quality and
efficiency indicators, since these tasks fall within the scope of its mission. The project's sustainability
would be enhanced by the development of a strategy in pedagogic equipment procurement and maintenance
which will redefine CAMEMD's role within the context of decentralization and of the expected role of the
private sector. In addition, although the project did not contemplate an impact evaluation study towards the
end of the project (see paragraph 3.5), the MNE has included this study in its own program. Likewise, it
has plans to train additional specialists in the development of educational indicators.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project activities are already incorporated in the MNE's normal program, so that no special
transition arrangements are required. They will continue as at present, and will be financed out of the
MNE budget. The education sector, being part of human resource development, falls within the
Government's budgetary priorities for the 2001-2004 economic recovery program. The Bank's mission
was given the following commitments by the implementing agencies.
Continuation of the learning assessment work With respect to the project's two principal
activities, the following measures will be undertaken: (i) first, the unfinished task of analyzing the survey
results and preparing the reports will be completed. The task of establishing a system of leaming
assessment will definitely be the next step, since this is part of DEOC's mission; (ii) the report on education
system indicators will be updated every two years and distributed to the education community and the
decision-makers.
Continuation of pedagogic research. As discussed above, the fact that assessment and revision of
the programs have been extended to other disciplines is evidence that the project activities have already
been incorporated into INRE's normal program.
Improvement of the system of pedagogic equipment procurement and maintenance.
Implementation of this component has already helped CAMEMD begin to develop capacities in planning
and management of procurement work. In addition, a new management structure is in place, demonstrating
a commitment to redefining CAMEMD's role, with the purpose of making the procurement and
maintenance system more efficient. The two studies establishing the strategy for the system will be
undertaken during 2001. One of the studies will outline a strategy for school equipment procurement and
maintenance, and the other will develop a maintenance master plan.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
During project preparation, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The project team had a
range of pertinent qualifications, with expertise in the areas of learning assessment, pedagogic materials,
and project management. Project design was based on an in-depth study of the basic and secondary
education sector, and reflected government priorities. Therefore, it focused on key elements for
-9-



improvement of the quality and efficiency of the education system. The project team clearly identified the
principal risks in terms of the country's political and economic situation and the implementation capacities
of the government agencies, and thus balanced the design of the project accordingly. In addition, since the
textbook publication and distribution system represents a determining factor in the quality and efficiency of
the sub-sectors, and wishing to maintain the dialogue with the Government on this matter, the project team
included in a supplemental letter to the loan agreement the legal requirement that a study be conducted
conceming the assessment of that system. In retrospect, the terms of reference of that study should have
been a condition for loan effectiveness. Also, it would have been useful to include an impact evaluation
study towards the end of the project in order to assess the project's achievements and identify the
challenges still remaining (particularly since the country's difficult security circumstances prevented
supervision missions and the mid-term review mission from taking place within Algeria).
The Bank prepared an appraisal report clearly describing the problems of the sub-sectors and the
activities supported by the project. The report also contains a detailed implementation timetable for project
activities and performance indicator matrices. These indicators would have been more useful had they been
more clearly defined, with a distinction between indicators measuring outputs and those measuring the
project's outcomes and impact.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance was only moderately satisfactory. This outcome was partly affected by
Algeria's difficult security circumstances, which hindered project supervision and led to high staff turnover.
Faced with the circumstances, the Bank adopted innovative solutions, organizing missions outside Algeria
and calling on the services of local consultants. Despite those efforts, the continuity of the work was not
secured and decisions could not be made rapidly when difficulties arose, particularly during implementation
of Component 1. Turn over in task management of the project happened several times following loan
effectiveness, and information sharing among the different teams was poor. Inadequate attention was
given to the monitoring and analysis of activities related to the project's "qualitative" aspects. In addition,
the Bank failed to enforce the deadlines for two studies stipulated in the loan agreement, namnely a study on
the maintenance and safety of pedagogic materials in the schools (December 31, 1994) and a study
conceming assessment of the textbook publication and distribution system (December 31, 1995).
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory, despite its only moderately satisfactory
performance for project supervision. The Bank continued to support the Government during the difficult
circumstances, adopting innovative solutions to get around the difficulties. With government support, it
organized missions outside Algeria, called upon the services of local consultants, and also had staff go to
Algeria when security conditions there were not favorable.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's performance was satisfactory. Its participation in the Bank's sector work
resulted in production of the study entitled "Improving Quality and Efficiency in Basic and Secondary
Education in Algeria - Report No. 8912-AL," which identified the priorities endorsed by the project. The
- 10-



Government also participated actively at the project design stage, which resulted in a tightening of the
project's scope to limit it to the immediate needs of the sub-sectors.
7.5 Government implemnentation performnance:
The Government's performance was only moderately satisfactory. Although the Government
remained committed to the project's overall objectives, and collaborated fully with the Bank during difficult
periods, it did not meet its contractual obligations. The deadlines for two required studies were not met (a
study on the maintenance and safety of pedagogic materials, and a study concerning assessment of the
textbook publication and distribution system). In addition, no decision was taken to solve the conflict
between DEOC and INRE, which persisted throughout the project and hampered the achievement of results
under Component I. Also, the lack of government counterpart funds restricted project activities during
1999.
7.6 Implementinig Agency:
The implementing agencies' performance was highly satisfactory. Despite such unfavorable
factors as a succession of changes of management, a lack of budget resources, and a scaling down of
international technical assistance, the implementing agencies remained committed to their task and
succeeded in accomplishing most of the project activities, putting in practice the experience acquired
through the limited international technical assistance that it was possible to provide. In the same spirit,
DEOC and INRE should have been able to override the administrative constraints and to assure a better
outcome for Component I.
The overall coordination of project activities by the Project Management Unit (PMU) was less
satisfactory. Meetings were rarely held with the MNE, and progress reports on the project were prepared
less frequently during the final years of the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance was satisfactory. Despite difficult security and economic situations, the
Government remained committed to its policy of improving the education system, and provided a good
framework for project implementation under difficult circumstances. Also, thanks to its help, the
organization of project supervision missions was able to take place outside Algeria, and those Bank
missions that were carried out within the country benefited from heightened attention on the part of the
Government.
8. Lessons Learned
A.    Positive lessons leamed from the project
(i)    A project with realistic objectives. designed to fit in with the Government's priorities. has a greater
chance of success. Thanks to those characteristics, this project was able to keep going during difficult
periods, requiring little decision-making on the part of the Government or the Bank.
(ii)    A commitment by the government officials directly involved in project activities is essential. This
type of commitment contributes to the continued pursuit of project objectives and lessens the risks of
changes of priorities, even at times of changes in the political leadership.
- 1 1 -



(iii) The necessary preparatory work prior to project start-up enables a project to maintain its
momentun and to move steadily forward as soon as the loan is effective. Within the framework of this
particular project, invitations to bid were sent to the suppliers of pedagogic materials and requests for
proposals for technical assistance and training were issued prior to loan effectiveness. This preparatory
work has significantly contributed to the degree of achievement of the project.
B.     Negative lessons learned from the project
(i)    It is important to establish distinct output and outcome indicators as well as outcome/impact
indicators with a base value and a target value that will help assess the degree of achievement of the
development objectives and the project's sustainability. Those indicators are particularly necessary for
projects with objectives of an intangible nature, such as those relating to the quality and efficiency of the
education system.
(ii)   It is worthwhile to undertake an impact evaluation of the project to provide an objective analysis of
project achievements and identify the challenges still to be met. These results can serve as a basis for new
operations. Such a study would have benefited this project, particularly since supervision missions were so
restricted.
(iii)    Greater attention should have been paid to the enforcement of contractual obligations, with an
action plan for handling cases of noncompliance with the provisions of the loan agreement. Activities
designated contractual obligations are regarded as essential to a project's development. In the event of
tardy compliance, or outright noncompliance, action should be taken not only to satisfy the "legal" aspects
of the case but also to ensure that the project's objectives were fully met.
(iv)    It is necessarv to strengthen the system for the passing on of information when there are changes in
Bank proiect supervision teams. This ensures continuation of the dialogue with the borrowers, and reduces
the risk of unintentional changes in the project's priorities. The following approach would be helpful: (i)
presence of the person in charge of project preparation during the first year of project implementation; (ii)
updating of project progress reports and more complete project status reports, with greater emphasis put on
the achievement of the project development objectives.
C.     General lessons. To have a significant impact, projects in the education sector need to place an
emphasis on reforming the system. Without far-reaching reforms addressing such issues as quality,
efficiency, and equity, the education system cannot continue to advance. Investing in such reforms will be a
longer process and will demand greater effort. The following factors should be considered: (i) maintenance
of an ongoing dialogue with borrowers; (ii) involvement of all parties making decisions concerning the
system or directly benefiting from it (teachers, community, parents, etc.); (iii) in-depth assessment of the
organization and capacity of the institutions; (iv) presence of an efficiently performing system of
assessment of learning outcomes, making it possible to evaluate curricula, textbooks, teaching methods and
programs, examination systems, etc.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implenmenting agency:
During its review of the report prepared by the Bank, the Government commented that overall the
report gives an accurate picture of the project outcomes, the stages through which the project passed and
- 12-



clearly identifies the positive and negative factors that affected its implementation and somewhat impacted
its outcomes. The MNE also made a few small comments regarding form, which were included in the
report. Two comments are reproduced in detail here, since they express MNE's position and are therefore
worthy of note.
(i)    Paragraph 4-2. Outcomes by component. Component I: Contrary to what is stated in the report,
the Ministry of Education has always, since the seventies, had sufficient human capacities to carry out
leaming outcome assessments (as far back as 1976, trials were carried out by school and job orientation
counselors on tests of learning in several school sub-sectors).
(ii)   Paragraph 7-5: Government implementation performance. The Government did not fail to honor
its contractual obligations, evidence of this being the study on maintenance entrusted in 1995 to IBF, a
Belgian consulting firm. All the equipment surveys were carried out using CAMEMD's own resources in
1997 and 1998, as was the data input. It was not until 1999, during the supervision mission, that the
decision to cancel the contract was taken, since IBF had failed to meet its contractual obligations.
Furthermore, the Bank indicated that terms of reference would be sent to CAMEMD the next month, i.e. in
June 1999, so that the study could be completed by a domestic consulting firm (see aide-memoire of May
1999). As a result of rapid turn over in task management, the terms of reference were never sent.
The copy of the Government's cornments remains in the project files. A version of the Government's
report is annexed hereto.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGO.s/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
A brief description of the principal education sector bodies involved in implementation of the project is
given below.
A.    The Directorate of Assessment, Orientation and Communication (DEOC) is the body within the
Ministry of National Education that monitors student learning achievements. It has authority over the
School Orientation and Selection Centers (COSPs), and provides them with technical supervision
(definition of the broad lines of the activities program - general guidelines for orientation programs and
methods).
The COSPs are external centers responsible for activities linked to the orientation of students
enrolled in the different education cycles, particularly at the time of transition from one cycle to
another, the provision of information to students and parents, and the assessment of learning
achievements and of teaching and training programs and methods, in liaison with the other bodies
and agencies concerned. At the local level, the COSPs report to the Education Director of the
respective wilaya.
The technical personnel of the COSPs comprises school and job orientation counselors who have
received specialized university training in school orientation and selection and applied psychology.
- 13-



The COSPs have an activities program that covers the school year.
A COSP is headed by a Director, who has direct oversight over the technical staff (school and job
orientation counselors) and administrative and service staff. It has an operating budget allocated
by the Government. COSPs are managed under the direct administrative supervision of the
Education Director of the respective wilaya.
B.    The National Institute of Education Research (INRE) was established in 1996 to take the place
of National Pedagogic Institute (IPN). INRE is responsible for pedagogic research, the continuous
assessment of the education system, and the preparation of instructional materials. INRE also
assess the impact of education policy. INRE is administered by an orientation council and
managed by a director general, and has a scientific council and a committee responsible for
approving approve pedagogic materials and supporting resources.
C.    The National Center for Procurement and Maintenance of Equipment and Pedagogic
Materials (CAMEMD) was set up in 1986. Its supervisory authority is the MNE and it is
financially autonomous. It is responsible for the procurement and maintenance of pedagogic
equipment. It works in close collaboration with the Planning Directorate, which it responsible for
registration and monitoring of equipment procurement operations and standardization. CAMEMD
also trains technicians (pre- and in-service training courses) and monitors pedagogic equipment
use. CAMEMD maintains links with the wilaya through its eight regional antennas.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1:                          Data non available                    Component 1:
1.1 Improved measurement techniques of                                      1.1, 1.2, 1.3 Results were not totally
pupils' leaming achievement in the DOE at                                   achieved, as the expected activities remained
central level and in six participating COSP.                                uncompleted.
1.2 Introduction of improved local training                                  1.4 Education indicators were produced but
techniques for inspectors and teachers in                                   have not been used as assessment tools.
testing, assessment and orientation and
selection of pupils in the six pilot wilaya.
1.3 Expansion of the assessment system to
seven additonal wilaya which are to be added
and financed by the MEN in a second phase
(expected 1997-98).
1.4 Improved quality and relevance of
curricula in the four covered subjects as
compared to international standards (OECD
education indicators model).
Component 2:                                                                Component 2:
2.1 Improved measurement techniques of                                      2.1 Assessment techniques of INRE were
pupils' learning achievement with appropriate                               improved through intemational technical
pedagogic research at classroom and school                                  cooperation and training seminars, thereby
level and at central level and in the six                                   enabling INRE to expand its pedagogic
participating COSP.                                                         research work to other subjects (see below)
and to contribute to the work of the National
2.2 Improved feed-back to and from                                          Commission for the Education System
inspectors and teachers on pedagogic                                        Reform.
research results in the topics covered.
2.2 This was achieved through numerous
2.3 Improved linkages between curricula and                                 information seminars and the publishing of
revised texts for the prescribed schoolbooks                                study reports broadly disseminated to the
at 1, 2, and 3 cycles of basic and secondary                                educabon community. (documents available
levels in Arabic and Physical Sciences.                                     in the Bank's archives).
2.4 Development of improved teacher                                         2.3 This was achieved and went beyond
documentation for Arabic and Physical                                       project expectations as the INRE work
Sciences at all levels of basic and secondary                               reached more topics than prescribed by the
education.                                                                  project.
2.5 Improved availability of pedagogic                                      2.4 The following results assessment
background informaton and improved                                          reports were produced : (i) Arabic (grade 1,
functioning of the INRE library.                                            3, 6, and 9 BE and 3 SE); (ii) Mathematics
(grade 9 BE, 3 SE); (iii) Physics and
Chemistry (grade 1 and 3 SE); (iv) French
(1 st foreign language at all cycles, 2nd
foreign language at grade 8 BE and 1 SE);
(v) English (grade 4 and 9 BE and 3 SE).
2.5 The INRE library modernization and
strengthening in terms of documentation
contributed to increased availability of
pedagogic information. The Bank's mission
noticed the presence of education science
students and researchers in the library.
Component 3:                                                                Component 3:
3.1 Improved provision of pedagogic                                         3.1 All the materials expected under the
materials for 14,000 basic and secondary                                    project were purchased and distributed to
schools, as follows:                                                        school facilities. Field visits could not be
Dec. 1994 - 10% covered                                                     carried out during the ICR mission but the
Dec. 1995 - 25% covered                                                     mission was informed that the 100%
Dec. 1996 - 40% covered                                                     coverage rate has been reached.
- 15-



Dec. 1997 - 60% covered
Dec. 1998 - 80% covered                                                      3.2, 3.5 Field visits could not be carried out
Dec. 1999 - 90% covered                                                      during the ICR mission. The assessment
Dec. 2000 - 100% covered                                                     tools have not yet been used to assess the
quality of the system. However, during project
3.2 Better use of pedagogic materials by                                      implementation, an assessment survey
teachers in classrooms                                                        among teachers and students showed that
the availability of materals enabled an
3.3 Better training courses in maintenance                                   improved application of the program and
and securty for technicians                                                   progress, and a greater interest of students
3.4 Improved provision, repair and                                           in courses and application sessions.
maintenance services by CAMEMD and its                                        3.3 Overseas training activities took place.
regional antennas for all basic and secondary                                The trained technicians organized seminars
schools.                                                                      and workshops for the CAMEMD staff as
3.5 Better teachers education and improved                                    well as for the teachers in topics using those
equipments.
pupils' leaming achievements.
3.4 CAMEMD services lack effectiveness.
School facilities sometimes rely on the prvate
sector for repair services.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Information source: Section "Current Status
of the Project" in last PSR (5 March 2001).
Component 1:
Component 1:                           1.1  Six surveys have been canied out:    Component 1:
1.1 Nine surveys activities on a      - Arabic Language grade 3 BE            1.1 Eight surveys have been carried out:
representative sample:                - Arabic Language grade 9 BE            - Arabic Language grade 3 BE
-4 basic subjects (Arabic, Sciences, French) - French Language grade 9 BE     - Arabic Language grade 6 BE
-4 school levels (grade 1, 2, and 3 in BE    - Natural Sciences grade 1 SE    - Arabic Language grade 9 BE
and SE).                               - Mathematics grade 9 BE               - Mathematics grade 3 BE
- Mathematics grade 1 SE               - Mathematics grade 6 BE
1.2 (i) Communicaton of the results to the                                    - Mathematics grade 9 BE
teachers and the inspectorate.                                                - Mathematics grade 1 SE
(ii) Diffusion of the final report to the                                     - French Language grade 9 BE
education community.
(iii) Short publications on assessment tools to                               The survey on Sciences in grade 1 SE did
teachers.                                                                     not take place.
1.3 (i) Creation of data banks and                                           A national seminar was organized in May
standardized test items.                                                      2000 for the pre experimentation phase.
(ii) Pedagogic support to teachers on
pedagogic assessment procedures.                                              1.2, 1.3 The system results and tests
1.4 Seven individuals have benefited from a  diffusion did not take place.
1.4 (i) Overseas training of staff (14  training in Canada for 4 to 6 weeks.
individuals) in designing, implementing, and                                  1.4 Fourteen individuals benefited from a 2
evaluating internal efficiency studies.                                       phases training, in 1995 and 1996.
(ii) Local training of staff (about 1560
inspectors).                           1.5 Inidicators for 1999 and 2000 have been
established.
1.5 (i) Setting up of a quality indicators                                    1.5 Education system quality and efficiency
system aimed at providing useful, reliable,                                  indicators, based on the OECD model were
and viable information, on the schools                                       set up for 1999 and 2000.
system.
(ii) Local training of staff (inspectors,
teachers, COSP counselors, university
psycho-pedagogy specialists).
Component 2:                          Component 2:                            Component 2:
2.1 To establish a protocol for pedagogic
research.
- 16 -



2.2 Improve coherence between programs                                       2.2 In addition to Arabic Language and
objectives and subjects content in Arabic and                                Physical Sciences, the programs concerning
Physics for grade 1, 2, and 3 SE.                                            the following subjects were evaluated:
mathematics, English, French, biology,
2.3 Overseas training in programs and                                        history, geography, and philosophy (in
schoolbooks evaluation.               2.4 The results of the programs and    process).
2.4 Dissemination of brochures on the  schoolbooks evaluation have been produced  2.3 Two teams of eighteen individuals were
conclusions of pedagogic research seminars in a memorandum. 6,000 copies were  trained in Canada in 1995.
aimed at inspectors and school managers in disseminated to the educaton community.
the wiaae                                                                    2.4 A memorandum on programs evaluation
the wilayate.                                                             (6,000 copies) was diffused. An important
2.5 Acquisition of basic documentation                                       number of seminars was organized and
(about 5.000 copies).                                                        brochures on the conclusions of these
seminars were also published.
2.6 Subscription to foreign specialized                                      (documentation available within the anchive
magazines.                                                                   system of the Bank.)
2.5, 2.6 The INRE library benefited from an
asset of 5,000 books. Subscriptions to
specialized magazines were partial due to
cumbersome administrative procedures.
Component 3:                          Component 3:                           Component 3:
3.1 Purchase of 13,000 compendiums for  3.1 The materials were purchased and  3.1 The expected materials were totally
10,500 built primary schools, plus 2,500 to   distributed. An additional tranche of materials purchased and distributed. An additional
be built; provision of scientific equipments for is in the process of being acquired.  tranche of matenals for facilities having
750 basic schools under construction;                                        suffered from acts of terrorism is in process.
provision of scientific equipments for 250                                   This tranche will be partially executed due to
high schools under construction.                                             the closing of the loan.
3.2 (Indicators are not mentioned here as the
sub-component related to the establishment
of a laboratory products conditioning unit has 3.3 Following the cancellation of the contract
bee cneld)..  olwgtecnelao  ftecnrc
been cancelled).                     with the consulting firm for the initial study,  3.3 No progress on the study.
3.3 To conduct the study on maintenance   the study was split into two studies on: (i) a
needs.                                school materals purchase and maintenance
strategy, and                         3.4 Activity achieved, releasing a balance
3.4 Purchase spare parts.             (ii) the development of a master plan for  which was used to purchase the additional
maintenance. No action was undertaken  tranche of materials mentioned above.
3.5 Overseas training of 16 high technicians concerning the execution of (i) and (ii).
and 10 CAMEMD executives.                                                    3.5, 3.7 Overseas training took place for 27
executives (9 in information technologies and
3.6 Increase in personnel (about 30                                          management; 10 in machines/tools; 4 in
individuals) in regional annexes.                                            reeling/coiling; and 4 in electronics). As a
result, seminars and workshops were
3.7 Skill upgrading of about 100 high                                        organized for other CAMEMD staff and
technicians and CAMEMD engineers as well                                     teachers in subjects benefiting from the
as about 1,000 laboratory managers and                                       equipments.
29,000 teachers.
3.6 Infommation non available.
3.8 Acquisition of technical documentation.
End of project
6/13/2000
- 17-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Pilot national assessment system                      3.30            3.60
Pedagogic research                                    2.00            2.90
Improvement of supply and use of pedagogic material  51.00           50.60
Total Baseline Cost                                  56.30           57.10
Physical Contingencies                               2.00                           89.2
Price Contingencies                                  5.70                           89.2
Total Project Costs             64.00           57.10
Total Financing Required              64.00          57.10
Including contingencies
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB          Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          1.60         1.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     32.70          0.00         4.00          0.00         36.70
(32.50)       (0.00)        (4.00)       (0.00)       (x36.50)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         6.60          0.00         6.60
Technical coop. & Trng.      (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.40)       (0.00)       (3.40)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         19.10         0.00         19.10
Operating Costs              (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.10)       (0.00)       (0.10)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      32.70         0.00         29.70          1.60        64.00
(32.50)       (0.00)        (7.50)       (0.00)       (40.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB          Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     33.40          0.00         2.00         0.00         35.40
(31.30)       (0.00)       (1.20)       (0.00)       (32.50)
-18 -



3. Services                      0.00            0.00           2.60           0.00          2.60
Technical coop. & Trng.          (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.60)         (0.00)         (2.60)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           19.10          0.00          19.10
Operating Costs                  (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         33.40           0.00          23.70           0.00          57.10
1   (31.30)         (0.00)          (3.80)        (0.00)         (35.10)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Pilot national assessment  1.40      2.30                 1.70       1.90              121.4  82.6
system
Pedagogic research        2.00       0.30                 2.30      0.60               115.0  200.0
Improvement of supply and   36.60   21.40                31.10      19.50               85.0   91.1
use of pedagogic materials
- 19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Perfornance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/1991                      4   1 ASS, I ED, I 00, I HR
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/1992                      3   1 ASS, 1 ED, I 00,
Supervision
9/1994                      2   1 ASS, I ED                         S              S
4/1995                       2   2 ED                                 S             S
10/1996                      2   1 AC,                               S              S
12/1998                      1   1 HR                                S              S
5/1999                       1   I ED                                 S             S
11/1999                      3   1 HR, 1 IMP, I MON                  U              S
6/2000                       1   1 MON                                S             S
5/1993                       2   1 ASS, I ED
ICR
4/2001                       2    1 00, 1 OA
AC: Architect; ASS: Assessment Specialist, ED: Education Specialist; HR: Human Resources Spec.; MON:
Monitoring Spec.; 00: Operations Officer
Note: 5/1993 Rating for: Impl. Prog and DO = 1
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  |                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 20                        158.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                      10                         60.0
Supervision                                18                        163.7
ICR                                         5                         30.0
Total                                      53                        412.2
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                          OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
E Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Institutional Development               O H  O SUO M  O N  0 NA
E Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
] Poverty Reduction                 O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
El Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
El Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
E Lending                                           OHS Os Ou OHU
E Supervision                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
O Overall                                           OHS Os O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
OJ Preparation                                      O HS * S  O U  O HU
O Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
C0 Implementation agency performance                O HS O S  O u  O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS   Ou  O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Basic and Secondary Education
Improving Quality and Efficiency in Basic and Secondary Education (Report No. 8912-AL)
Project Status Reports
Synthese des Rapports d'Evaluation des Programmes Scolaires des Enseignements Fondamental et
Secondaire (French and Arabic - Fevrier 1999)
Rapport Final dEvaluation - Evaluation de Programme (Decembre 1998)
Indicateurs du Systeme Educatif (Mars 2001)
Evaluation de Rendement Scolaire (Mai 2000)
Evaluation de Rendement Scolaire (Juin 1998)
Evaluation de Programmes de l'Enseignement Fondamental et Secondaire (French and Arabic - Mars 1999)
Manuel Sciences Physiques (1999)
Rapport Final d'Evaluation - Evaluation de Programme - Physique Enseignement Secondaire (Decembre
1998)
Recueil des Questionnaires d&Evaluation des Programmes et des Manuels Scolaires (1998- 1999)
Evaluation des Manuels Scolaires du Secondaire *Physique lere AS* - Rapport Final (Janvier 2000)
Rapport d'Evaluation du Manuel de Francais 8eme AF - 2eme langue etrangere (Decembre 1999)
Evaluation des Manuels de Chimie de l'Enseignement Secondaire (Fevrier 2000)
Evaluation des Manuels de Chimie de l'Enseignement Secondaire (Fevrier 1999)
R6sultats de l'Evaluation Pedagogique des Examens de Fin de Cycle (2000)
- 24 -



BORROWER'S REPORT



FROM  Unite de Glestin      PHONE NO. : +02 232898  Jul. 2B 200 10:42FM1 P2
Republicue Al rienne Democratic ue Populaire
_ .           _.  A 
Minist6re de l'Education Nationale
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
PROJET D'APPUI A L'ENSEIGNEMENT FONDAMENTAL ET
SECONDAIRE
Pr6t BIRD n 3573-AL
11 Jullost 2001



FDM  Unite de G3estion*           PHONE NO. : +02 232836       Jul. 28 2001 10:42RM P3
SOMMAIRE
I - Caractfristiques et rappel succint des objectifs du projet.
2 - RWlisation des objectifs et r6sultats par composante.
3 - Impact de d6veloppement.
4 - Principales causes ayant affect6 l'execution
4 - I - Causes externes
4- 2 - Causes internes lWEes A la gestion et l'execution
5- Performances.
5 - I - De Ia Banque
5 - 2 - De l'emprunteur
6 -Principale leVon tir&e de la realisation de ce Jor projet.
7 - Cout et financement
8- Annexes: 1- Financement du projet par composante
11- Etat des consommations
TU -Situation d6taill6e des consommations par ann6e






FROM  Uniite de GestPiiHOIE NO.: +02 232898                    Jul. 2 2   1043I P4
I - Carect6ristigues et bref ranDel des obiectifs.
Le projet ( Appui  I 'enseignement fondamental et secondaire >>
constitue la preiniere 6tape du long processus, clairement enonce et d6ji
entam6 par le Gouvermement en matiWre d'amnlioration de la qualite des
connaissances acquises et de lefficacit6 du systeme educatif.
Le projet s'articule autour de 3 composantes:
1-1-Composante I : Elaboration d'un dispositif pilote d'6valuation.
Cette composante d'un montant de 3,7 Millions de dollars E.U, alWas
compris (soit 6% du coOlt estiinatif de base du pret), appuie la conception
et l'introduction d'un systeme pilote d'cvaluation des connaissances des
6l1ves, de la qualit et de l'fficacitt .Elle devait permettre de:
1-1-1 - faire connaitre de nouvelles techniques, rnodalit6s et
pratiques d'6valuation parmi les 6ducateurs et les d6cideurs.
1-1-2 - renforcer les capacit6s du controle des connaissances et
d'6valuation de la qualite a titre pilote dans les centres
d'olientation scolaire et professionnelle de 6 wilayas.
1-2 -Composante IT: o Renforcement du ptogramme de recherche
p6dagogique de l'lNRE (ex IPN).
La deuxieme coniiposante d'un montant de 2,3 Millions de dollars
E.U ( 4 % du cout estimatif de base) devait appuyer:
1-2-1 - les activites de formation touchant les programmes de
recherche p6dagogique
1-2-2 - les renforcements institutionnels de l'ex.IPN.
1-2-3 - I'execution des programmes de recherche sur la conception
et l'evaiuation des programmes d'enscignement et des manuels scolaires.
1-3-Composante III: o Am6lioration de la disponibilite et
l'utilisation des mat$riels p6dagogiques. Cout 58 Millions de dollars E.U
(90 % du coft estunatif global). Cette enveloppe devait financer
l'acquisition des equipements p6dagogiques pour 13.000 coles
primaires, 750 ecoles fondamentales et 250 1yc6es (la tranche
Compl6mentaire   concerne 193 autres ecoles fondamentales et 76
lycees).
- L'acquisition de pieces de rechange pour la maintenance
- L'informatisation de la gestion de la maintenance, formation,
etudes et assistance technique.



FROM  Lk-iite de Gestion            PHONE NO.: +02 2328983 Jul. 28 2001 10:431 P5
2- Rfalisation des obiectifs et r6sultats Par composantes.
L'execution du projet a colncid& avec des periodes tr6s difficiles
que le pays a connues (crise econoniique et contraintes financieres, debut
d'application des r6formes, problemes s6curitaires, instabilite des cadres,
etc...).
Malgr6 cela, le projet a et6 maintenu avec respect des d6lais et
ex6cution des actions concourrant A lamelioration de la quaIit6 et de
l'efficacit6 du systrme.
2-1-Comgosante I -
o Elaboration d'un dispositif pilote d' valuation >o
Cette composante a connu beaucoup de difficult6s qui ont persiste tout au
long de l'ex6cution du projet, et ce malgr6 l'intervention, quasi-
permaiente au debut de 1'UnitM de gestion du projel. Ces difficult6s,
itaient dCes au fait l'ex6cution technique 6tait dorniciliee A la Direction
de I'Evaluation de l'Orientation et de la Communication et la gestion
financiere assuree par l'Institut National de Recherche en Education et ce
en application du decret pr6sidentiel n: 93-327 du 26-12-1993 portant
approbation de I'accord de pret BIRD. n 3573-AL.
Malgr6 ces problemes qui ont entrav6 1'execution normale du
projet, l'objectif assigne a la composantc I a 0t6 atteint en partie;
l'objectif n'a pas e realise en tolalite du fait du retard cumuie pour les
raisons deja signakes plus haut.
Concernant 1'l1aboration du dispositif pilote d'6valuation, la
passation des epreuves et l'adminiistration des diff6rents questionnaires
socio-d6mographiques se sont d6roules selon les chronogramme arrktd,
La correction des epreuves et la saisie des donnees ont ete realisees.
Les operations d'analyse, de traitement d'exploitation des risultats
sont en cours (apres cl6ture du pret).
De nm8me que la construction des indicateurs avait 6t6 finalisee et le
document en cours d'impressioni.
Aussi, A travers Ies travaux deja r6alis6es, l'objectif <Acquisition
de 1'experience dans les techniques p6dagogiques, d'dvaluation et
l'6Iaboration, des enquetes )> a dte largement atteint.
Le systene pilote sera etabli et toutes Ics dispositions seront prises
pour que le travail soit poursuivi et finalise.



PHOE NO.: +02 232898         Jul. 28 2001 10:44M1 P6
FROM: Unite de Gestion
2-2 - Comgosante Il : Recherche pedagogique
La realisation de cette composante a 6t6 plus que satisfaisante et
l'objectif attendu a 06 d6passd puisque les iquipes de l'lNRE ont rialise
plus que ce qui etait inscrit et retenu dans le projet.
Les resuitats aussi bien quantitatifs que qualitatifs ont 6td plus que
satisfaisants.
L'dvaluation des programmes a 6t6 etendue A d'autres disciplines
(seules l'Arabe et les Sciences 6taient concern6es), elle a touch6 la
Philosophie, I'istoire, la Geographie, les Math matiques et la langue
Fran9aise.
De meme, l'evaluation des manuels scolaires a touche d'autres
titres non retenus pour le projet.
Aussi, nous pouvons estimer que cette composante a contribu6
largement au renforcement des capacites institutionnelles de l'INRE qui a
et6 en mesure de contribuer et mettre i la disposition de la commission
nationale de reforme du systeme 6ducatif tous ses travaux de recherche
p6dagogique.
L'exp&rience acquise a et6 reinvestie: I'extension a d'autres
programmes et d'autres manuels a ete entamee et de nouvelles equipes
ont 06 mises en place.
2-3-  omvosante 111:   Am6Iioration de I'approvisionnement :cn
mat6riels didactiques o
La quasi totalit6 des acquisitions en materiels pedagogiques pr6vus
par cette composante a 6W r6alis6e et le taux de couverture des ecoles en
6quipements pedagogiques a depasse les 100 %. Les equipements de la
trancbe compl6nientaire de 193 Ecoles Fondamentales et 76 lyc6es ont
etd acquis et instaills, coinie pr6vu avant la date de cl6ture. Toutefois,
le decalage entre l'acquisition et la rentree scolaire est dii aux imp6ratifs
contractuels et A 1'6ch6ance de cl8ture du pret.
L'6tude sur la maintenance et la securite n'avait pas 6te realisie
cornme prevu au 31 Decembre 1994.Elle a connu beaucoup de retard,
pour enfin Stre comniandee en 1995 A un bureau d'6tudes Beige (IBF).
Les travaux d'enquete et de saisie avaient dt6 r6alis6s par les propres
moyens du CAMEMD en 1996 et 1997, la situation s6curitaire de
l'6poque ne favorisant pas la poursuite du travail par le bureau d'&tudes.
Le contrat avait &6 r6silie en 1999. L'objectifde 1'etude avait 6t6 red6fini
et 1'etude scindce en deux. Toutefois, la Banque s'6tait engag6e a
transmettre au CAMEMD, avant la fin Juin 1999, un mod6le de terme de
references pour aider le CAMEMD (Cf. Aide-Memoire Mai 1999).



PROM  Unite de Gesticn            PHONE NO. : +02 232898        Jul. 283 2001 10:45ft1 P7
Sur insistance de l'UGP et suite au changement de responsable
opdr6 au niveau du CAMEMD, le volet maintenance a ete inscrit comme
tr6s prioritaire dans le programme d'action de CAMEMD et les deux
etudes de la maintenance ont &t6 retenues pour etre achev6es dans les
meilleurs d6lais.
3- Impct de dielopDement:
11 demeure certain que le projet a contribue dans une tr6s large part
au d6veloppement des capacites nationales.
Les exp6riences accumiulees et les capacit6s acquises par les cadres
de secteur sont palpables. Ceci a 6te possible grAce a 1'engagement des
decideurs et leur volont6 d'am6liorer la qualit6 et l'efficacite du systeme
6ducatif.
Sous la conduite de la DEOC et A travers tous les educateurs des
six wilayas pilotes, les m6thodes de contrBle et d'enquote et la validation
des r6sultats ont 6t6 relativement acquises.
Pour l'INRE, les resultats sont plus probants. Les techniques de
conception et d'6valuation des programmes et des manuels scolaires sont
maltris6es .
La demultiplication des experiences au niveau de terrain a port6
d6ji ses fruits.
Quant au CAMEMD, les cadres ont acquis une riche expdrience
dans la gestion du projet. uls planifient, suivent les diff6rentes etapes de
l'acquisition, la livraison des materiels et la foination a leur utilisation.
4- PrinciRaux 616ments alant affect: 1'excution:
II y a lieu de signaler que 1'ex6cution des deux premieres
composantes du projet A ddniarr avec une ann&e de retard. Ce retard
est dCi principalement aux diff6renits changements de cadres qu' & connu
le Ministere (Administration Centrale et Centres Nationaux) en 1994 et
1995.
Par ailleurs, 1'execution du projet a connu tout au long de la
p6riode des retards des A des facteurs aussi bien externes qu'internes et
les r6sultats finaux en ont &6 affect6s.
- Facteurs externes:
Le ddroulement du projet a W queique peu entrav6 par:



FROM  Unite de Gestion             PHONE NO.: +02 23289E         Jul. 28 2001 10:45fM P8
- Les contraintes financi6res qu'a coniu le pays suite aux effets
de la crise economique et la chute du prix du p6trole.
- Les p6riodes difficiles daes aux conditions s6curitaires qu'a
traverse' le pays:
- Les changenients successifs qu'ont connu les 6quipes de
suivi du projet ai niveau de la Banque.
- Les lourdeurs administratives des services des douanes et
des services de la Banque Algerienne de Developpement.
r La meconnaissance des m6canismes et proc6dures de
gestion de Ia Banque.
- Et A un degrd moindre, les difficult6s de communication
avec la Banque et les bureaux d'6tudes etrangers (dont le CIDE),
difficultes qui resident en des encombreme4its tres frequents des
t6l6communications, journ6es ouvrables et nombre d'heures permettant
les contacts en tenant compte des d6calages horaires.
- Facteirs internes:
Les changements successifs des cadres et personnels opr&6s au
niveau du Ministere et des centres nationaux (INRE et CAMEMD, entre
auti-es), ainsi que le depart premature A la retiaite de cadres impliqu6s
dans le projet ont affect6 serieusement le bon d6roulement de I'ex6cution
du projet.
- Les difficultes qu'a connu I'Unite de gestion du projet dans la
coordination ont elles aussi retard6 1'exicution et affecte les resultats de
ia composante J notamment.
5- OualitW de 'intervcntion:
Tout au long de 1'execution du projet, la qualite de l'intervention3
aussi bien de la Banque que ce]le du Gouvernement a W  sans aucun
doute tr6s positive.
C'est ce qui a fait << durer >> le projet jusqu'& son tenne,
comparativement aux autres proJets d'autres secteurs et notamment
durant les p6riodes tres difficiles allant de 1993 a 1998.
Toutefois, si les performances de la Banque ont 6te tres
satisfaisantes, il y a lieu de signaler l'instabilit6 des responsables qui
pilotaient le projet au niveau de la Banque (pas moins de 5 experts ont
pris, successivement, en charge le projet appui i I'enscignement
fondamental et secondaire), ce qui a cause des retards dans 1'ex6cution du
lt S:



FROM  Unite de Gestion            PHONE NO.: +02 232898        Jul. 28 2001 10:461M P9
En ce qui concerne l'emprunteur, il y a lieu de noter que malgro les
contraintes financieres et securitaires, le Gouvernement n'a menag6
aucuni effort pour solutionner tous les problemes et surtout donner la
priorit6 au projet dans le cadre du budget d'F.quipement.
Par ailleurs, malgre les contraintes, le Gouvememnent a maintenu
globalement ses engagements avec la Banque.
6 - Princinale lecon tir6e de la rkalisation du proict
Globalement les experiences du projet ont & trks positives aussi
bien dans la mobilisation des moyens pour le maintenir dans les delais
impartis A toutes les actions ayant contribu6 i 1'ex6cution << a peu pres
normale ) du projet, que dans les techniques et connaissances acquises.
De par lVengagement de tous les cadres directement concern6s par les
activites du projet qui, malgr6 les contraintes et les changements, ont
maintenu le cap.
7 - Financement - Co&ts et D&caissements
Le coOt total du projet a &t6 estim6 initialement a 64 millions de
dollars U.S dont 40 millions de dollars U.S a financer par la Banque et 24
millions de dollars U.S par le Gouvernement.
Durant l'execution, un reliquat de 11 millions de dollars U.S avait
&6 d6gag& Ce reliquat resultait de l'abandon de la realisation de l'unit6
de conditionnement de produits chimniques ( eu 6gard aux r isques qu elle
presentait et les besoins minimnes en produits dans les 6tablissements ) et a
la r6duction des besoins en pieces de rechange pour la maintenance
(besoins surestim6s initialemeent).
Le reliquat a ete renegocie avec la Banque et affecte en partie ( 6 millions
de dollars) pour l'acquisition d'une tranche compl6mentaire de materiels
pedagogiques au profit de 193 ecoles fondamentales et 76 lycees dont les
equipeinents ont Wt6 d6terior6s suite a des actes de terrorisme. Une
enveloppe de 5 millions de dollars U.S a 6t6 annulee du pret en Juillet
2000.
A la date de la cl6ture du pr6t (Mars 2001), pras de 33,040
millions de dollars U.S avaient ite d6caisses, soit 82.58 % du pr6t initial
(chiffe incluant les engagements du CAMEMD  pour la tranche
compl6mentaire ).
Les trois tableaux retra9ant la situation des couts et de
decaissemients par composante et annde d'cxercice sont joints en ainexe.



PHONE NO.: +02 232898          Jul. 28 2001 10:46AM1 P10
FRC1M Unite de Gestion
CONCLUSION
Malgre les contraintes et les difficult6s rencontr6es tout au long de
l'execution du projet, les objectifs fix6s ont &6 relativement atteiiits dans
la mesure ou' :
la mise en place et la constitution d'6quipes de sp6cialistes ayant
acquis les coniaissances et les techniiques de 1'6valuation ont WtF
rdalisees.
Ia recherche pedagogique s'est renforcee par la formation de
specialistes qui ont d6ja itendu leurs activites a des disciplines et des
manuels autres que ceux retenus dans le projet.
I'approvisionnement et l'utilisation des equipements pedagogiques
au sein des etablissements scolaires se sont amdlior6es. Le rendement et
les resultats aux examens scolaires &e sont nettemnent am6lior6s.
Par ailleurs, it y a lieu de noter qu'aucune personne n'a ete recrut6e
specialement pour le projet. Ce sont les cadres du secteur engages dans le
projet qui ont assure les activites du projet en plus de leur programme de
travail.
Les experiences acquises ont 6te d'une grande richesse aussi bien
sur le plan de la gestion que sur le plan technique.
Aussi, I'amelioration de la qualite et de l'efficacite du systEme
educatif continue a avoir la priorit' du secteur et constitue la pierre
angulaire de la reforme du systOmc educatif.
Ainsi les manques signales et les travaux d'achevement et de
finalisationi du projet seront pris en charge dans le programme normal du
secteur.



