Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3573 AL
Loan Agreement
(Basic and Secondary Education Support Project)
 between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 15, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3573 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1993, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BAD" means the Borrower's Algerian Development Bank (Banque Algerienne 
de Developpement), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 
71-47, dated June 30, 1971, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"CAMEMD" means the Borrower's Center for Procurement and Maintenance of 
Equipment and Pedagogic Materials (Centre d'Approvisionnement et de Maintenance des 
Equipements et des Moyens Didactiques) within MEN (as this term is hereafter defined), 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 86-291, 
dated December 9, 1986, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"Banque d'Algerie" means the Borrower's central bank, established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the same 
may be amended from time to time;
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing on January 
1 and ending on December 31;
(e)
"IPN" means the Borrower's National Pedagogic Institute (Institut 
Pedagogique National) within MEN, (as this term is hereafter defined) established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 62-166 dated December 31, 
1962, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(f)
"MEN" means the Borrower's Ministry of National Education;
 
(g)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be established in accordance 
with the provisions of Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(i)
"Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Borrower organized 
pursuant to the Borrower's Wilaya Law (Loi Relative la Wilaya) No. 90-09, dated April 
7, 1990.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of forty million dollars 
($40,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Banque d'Algerie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
Page  3
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On 
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during 
the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such 
Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) BAD is hereby designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts BAD with the responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications 
under the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be 
furnished to the Bank in support of such applications. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MEN with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, economic, environmental and education 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
Page  4
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower and the Bank shall, not later than November 30 of each year until completion 
of the Project, jointly carry out an annual review to (i) assess progress in Project 
implementation achieved during the twelve (12) preceding months; and (ii) discuss 
plans to be carried out and measures to be taken in the course of the twelve (12) 
following months to facilitate the attainment of Project objectives; and
(b)
not later than November 30, 1997, the Borrower and the Bank shall jointly 
carry out a mid-term review to assess overall progress toward achieving Project 
objectives.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank for its review and comments, the study referred to under Part A.5 of the 
Project, not later than December 31, 1994; and
(b)
exchange views with the Bank with respect to the recommendations of said 
study and, thereafter, implement such recommendations of the study as shall have been 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank in light of the above-mentioned exchange 
of views in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, and for purposes of ensuring adequate funding for investment 
and recurrent costs under the Project, the Borrower shall, for each Fiscal Year until 
completion of the Project, take all measures necessary on its part to release funds 
from the Borrower's budget in a timely manner and in such amounts as shall be 
necessary for the effective implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such Year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  5
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Borrower has issued invitations to submit proposals or bids, as 
the case may be, for the provision of (i) training under Part A.4 (d) of the Project; 
(ii) consultants' services under Parts A.4 (d) and B (iii) of the Project; (iii) 
pedagogic materials under Parts A.1, A.4 (a) and A.4 (d) of the Project; and (iv) 
equipment under Part A.4 (d) of the Project; and
(b)
that PMU has been established in accordance with the provisions of 
Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy
Government Palace
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINPLAN
67073
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
Page  6
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Nourvedine Zerhouni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Pedagogic                 33,000,000      100% of foreign
      materials and                             expenditures,
      equipment                                 100% of local
      (including spare                          expenditures
      parts)                                    (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2)   Consultants'               3,000,000      100%
      services and
      training
(3)   Unallocated                4,000,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                     40,000,000
                                ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  7
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to improve the quality and 
efficiency of basic and secondary education. The objective of the Project is to 
commence implementation of a long-term strategy to enhance the quality of pupils' 
learning achievements and the efficiency of resource utilization in the Borrower's 
basic and secondary education system through (i) the introduction of a pilot system to 
assess learning outcomes and quality in basic and secondary education; (ii) 
strengthening the quality of pedagogic research programs and staff training; and (iii) 
improving supply and effective use of pedagogic materials in schools.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Pedagogic Materials, Equipment and Training
 
1.
Provision of pedagogic materials to about (a) ten thousand five hundred (10,500) 
existing grade 1 to 6 schools; and (b) two thousand five hundred (2,500) grade 1 to 6 
schools, seven hundred
fifty (750) grade 7 to 9 schools and two hundred fifty (250) secondary schools under 
construction.
2.
Provision of training, through locally organized seminars, to teachers at the 
schools mentioned in sub-section 1 above on the effective use of the pedagogic 
materials.
3.
Provision of equipment to the grade 7 to 9 schools and secondary schools 
referred to in Part A.1 above.
4.
Provision of (a) school science and technology laboratory products to about 
three thousand five hundred (3,500) grade 7 to grade 9 and secondary schools; (b) 
equipment to rehabilitate CAMEMD's storage and redistribution facilities; (c) training 
to CAMEMD staff on the handling and redistribution of the laboratory products referred 
to in paragraph (a) above; and (d) spare parts,
equipment, updated technical documentation, a computerized information and maintenance 
system, training and consultants' services to CAMEMD to strengthen and improve its 
school maintenance services.
5.
Carrying out of a study to improve the maintenance and safety standards of 
pedagogic materials and equipment used in the Borrower's basic and secondary education 
schools.
Part B:
Learning Assessment and Quality and Efficiency Evaluation
 
Provision of consultants' services, equipment and training to DOE and six (6) 
selected COSPs to (i) develop and introduce, on a pilot basis in six (6) selected 
Wilayas, a national learning assessment system; (ii) improve existing pupil testing, 
orientation and selection procedures through the training of national experts and the 
creation of computerized test-item banks; (iii) develop six main groups of 
standardized quality and efficiency indicators, including indicators of internal and 
external efficiency; and (iv) disseminate the information on the new assessment 
techniques, formats and practices to the education community.
Part C:
Pedagogic Research Programs
 
1.
Provision of consultants' services to IPN to (a) carry out pedagogic research 
programs for the design and evaluation of curricula and lay-out of schoolbook texts; 
and (b) assist in the dissemination of curriculum research results in the education 
community through, inter alia, the organization of local training seminars for 
Wilaya-based staff and the distribution of a newsletter.
2.
Provision to IPN of (a) equipment and training to strengthen its institutional 
capabilities; and (b) about five thousand (5,000) new pedagogic research books, 
journals and periodicals to strengthen its library and documentation services.
*     *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2000.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
December 15, 1997
  940,000
June 15, 1998
  975,000
December 15, 1998
1,010,000
June 15, 1999
1,050,000
December 15, 1999
1,085,000
June 15, 2000
1,130,000
December 15, 2000
1,170,000
June 15, 2001
1,215,000
December 15, 2001
1,260,000
June 15, 2002
1,305,000
December 15, 2002
1,355,000
June 15, 2003
1,405,000
December 15, 2003
1,455,000
June 15, 2004
1,510,000
December 15, 2004
1,565,000
June 15, 2005
1,625,000
December 15, 2005
1,685,000
June 15, 2006
1,745,000
December 15, 2006
1,810,000
June 15, 2007
1,880,000
December 15, 2007
1,950,000
June 15, 2008
2,020,000
December 15, 2008
2,095,000
June 15, 2009
2,175,000
December 15, 2009
2,255,000
June 15, 2010
2,330,000
 
 ____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity
Page  9
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to 
bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract 
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid 
price will be increased for each week of delay by two  redisclosed correction factors 
set forth in the bidding documents and acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to 
all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component of the 
bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Sundry items, such as technical documentation, library books and equipment for 
PMU, estimated to cost the equivalent of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to four million dollars 
($4,000,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers who may be from two different 
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of two 
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
Page  10
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A.2, A.4 (c), A.4 (d), B, 
C.1 and C.2 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than fifty thousand 
dollars ($50,000) equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of 
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the 
contract value to seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000) equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation
 
1.
The overall responsibilty for Project implementation shall be vested in MEN 
which shall (a) directly carry out Part B of the Project; and (b) carry out Part A of 
the Project through CAMEMD and Part C of the Project through IPN.
2.
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and in order to 
achieve the objectives of Part B of the Project, MEN shall cause six (6) school 
orientation and selection centers, to be selected from six (6) different Wilayas, to 
assist in the carrying out of Part B (iv) of the Project.
B.
Project Management and Coordination
 
1.
In order to ensure proper Project management and coordination, the Borrower 
shall establish PMU within MEN with funding at levels, and membership and 
administrative staff whose qualifications and experience shall be, satisfactory to the 
Bank.  Members of PMU shall meet at least once every six (6) months and shall include 
a Project director (the "Project Director").
2.
The functions of PMU shall include responsibility for (a) overall administration 
and supervision of Project activities; (b) coordination of Project procurement 
activities; (c) following-up with BAD on the preparation and maintenance of Project 
accounts; (d) organizing the annual reviews referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement and the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
and (e) preparing and furnishing to the Bank semi-annual and other progress reports on 
Project implementation.
3.
In discharging its Project administration duties, PMU shall (a) develop an 
annual work program in consultation with the appropriate agencies of the Borrower; and 
(b) annually prepare, for MEN's approval, a draft recurrent and investment budget for 
all Project activities financed by the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to two 
million five hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule.
Page  11
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
Page  12
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
