Documnt of
The World Bank
FOtR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Repai Nb 8510
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SMALL HOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1037-TA)
APRIL 13, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
hi document bss a restited dttdrbuto and may be used by redpents ody In te perfomnce of
thdir officl duie  Its conents may not othewnde be dilosed witout WoWrd Dank auhradon.



Currenfe! Equivalent
Currency Unit - Tanzania Shilling (TSh.)
Year                TSh/US$Sl
1980                   8.3
1981                   8.9
1982                   9.4
1983                  11.1
1984                  15.3
1985                  17.5
1986                  32.7
1987                  64.3
1988                 112.0
1989                 130.1
_/   Estimated annual averages
Abbreviations and Acronyms
FAO/CP         Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative
Programme
FAo!UNDP       Food and Agricultural Organization/United
Nations Development Program
GL             Green Leaf
GOT            Government of Tanzania
Ha             Hectare
IDA            International Development Association
KG             Kilogram
KTDA           Kenya Tea Development Authority
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MCW            Ministry of Communications and Works
MOP            Ministry of Pinance
NORAD          Norwegian Agency for International
Development
PCR            Project Completion Report
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
STCP           Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project
TA             Technical Assistance
TTA            Tanzania Tea Authority
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



THE WORtLD BANK                O   FIILUEOL
Washington. DC. 20433
U.S.A.
April 13, 1990
HEHORAUDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTt Project Completion Report on Tanzania Siallholder
Tea Consolidation Project (Credit 1037-TA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Tanzania - Smallholder Tea Consolidation
Project (Credit 1037-TA)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
Tb document has a esicd disibuton ad may be wad by recipients oly  the perfcaue
of th  oficial duties Its contents may am otherw  be dicod without Wod Dank authoia .



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
Preface                                                       i
Evaluation Summary                                            i
Part I: Project Review from Bank's Perspective
A.   Project Identity                                         1
B.   Background                                               1
C.   Project Objectives and Description                       2
D.   Project Design and Organization                          3
E.   Project Implementation                                   4
F.   Project Results                                          6
G.   Project Sustainability                                   9
H.   Bank Performance                                        10
I.   Borrower Performance                                    10
J.   Project Relationship                                    11
K.   Consulting Services                                     11
L.   Project Documentation and Data                          11
M.   Conclusions and Lessons Learned                         12
Part IT: Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
A.   Comments and Observations on Part 1 of PCR              13
B.   Additional Paras on the Project                         18
Annexure 1: Fuelvood Planting and Tea Infilling              20
Part IIls Statistical Data
A.   Related IDA Credits                                     21
B.   Project Timetable                                       21
C.   Credit Disbursements                                    22
D.   Project Costs and Financing                             23
E.   Project Results                                         24
F.   Status of Major Covenants                               26
G.   Use of IDA Resources                                    28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table  1: Tanzania Tea Statistics                             29
Table  2t Schedule of Physical Implementation of Field        30
Progrmme
Table  3: Factory Production and Capacity Utilization         31
Table  4: Technical Assistance - Short-Ternm Training         32
Table  5: Tanzania Tet Authority Profit and Loss
Statement for the Past 8 years ended 30.6,1988    33
Table 6: Tanzania Tea Authority - Balance Sheets as at
30th June                                          34
aveD                      o
IBRD 14083R    Smallholder Tea Consolidation Projects Location
IBRD 14084R    Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project: Rungwe Area
IBRD 14085R    Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project: Bukoba Area
IBRD 14086R1   Smallholder Tea Consolidation Projects Lupombe Area
IBRD 14087R    Sma'ilholder Tea Consolidation Project: Lushoto Area



TANZANI
SKALLEOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATICM PROJECT
(CREDIT 1037 - TA)
PROJEcT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Smallholder
Tea Consolidation ?roject (STCP) for which Credit 1193-TA in the amount of
US$ 14.0 million was approved on June 3, 1980. The Credit was closed on
June 30, 1989. three years behind schedule. The last disbursement was made
on December 29, 1989. A balance of about US$ 0.96 million remained
undisbursed and has been cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the staff of the FAO/CP (Parts I and
III). It is based on the findings of a mission which visited Tanzania in
April 1989, a review of the Staff Appraisal Report and other project
documents and files, and discussions with Bank staff involved in the
project. Part II was prepared by the borrower, as required, and is
included herein. Parts I and III reflect factual corrections indicated by
the borrower in Part II. The Preface and Evaluation Summary were prepared
by Bank staCf, Agricultural Operation's Division, Southern Africa
Department.



- {i -
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT (CR. 1037-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
1.        The Project's objectives were to improve tea quality and reduce
production costs, and improve the financial viability of the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) (para 6). These objectives were timely and appropriate,
given the serious deterioration of tea quality and the high losses incurred
by TTA (para 3). The project sought to impro-.e tea quality and reduce
production costs through expansion of the factory capacity; improvement of
transport facilities, including roads, for green leaf; establishment of
fuelvood plantations to substitute wood for oil in factory operations;
planting and in-filling gaps in existing tea farmss and providing credit
for inputs to increase tea yields (para 5). It sought to enhance TTA's
financial viability through providing technical assistance, and improving
its organization and operational efficiency (para 5); ensuring a more
appropriate pricing policy, and transferring the cost of extension services
to the Ministry of Agriculture (para 6). The project design and
organization were basically sound and appropriate relative to the
objectives. However, failure to provide for formal training of key staff
was a significant omission (para 15).
Implementation Egoerience
2.        The project Implementation progress was considerably slower than
appraisal expectation. At the end of the original closing date, only about
312 of the Credit funds had been disbursed (para 13). The low rate of
disbursement was partly due to the fact that construction of a new factory
was cancelled because of inadequate tea production. Overall, the slow
Implementation progress was the result of two factors. First, unfavorable
macro-economic policies, especially exchange rate policy, continued to
adversely affect TTA's financial position (paras 7 and 17). Second,
project implementation was severely impaired by long delays in reaching
agreement between TTA and the Government regarding financial restructuring
of TTA (paras 14 and 16). The implementation of the road component fell
far below expectation mainly because the envisaged funds from NORAD did not
materialized (para 15, iv).
Proiect Results
3.        With the extension of the closing date, the project was able to
achieve significant results. The tea planting and in-filling component was
completed basically as envisaged (para 15, ii). The establishment of



- iii -
fuwIvood plantations exceeded original targets in terms of output (pare 15,
LiJ), However, only about 492 of the tea road component was implemented
(pasr 15, iv). lactory capacity was expanded substantially (Appendix 1,
Table 4): production efficiency was sigpificantly increased, leading to
lpfroved green-leaf/made-tea ratio (pars 19). The quality of tea improved
uoarIedly, enabling Tsazania ters to fetch high export prices (paras 21-22).
T2A has made great progress towards becoming financially viable, with net
profits (para 24).   Current indications suggest a considerably higher rate
of returns than envisaged at appraisal (para 27).
Pto1ect Sust inability
4.        The prj.ect has helped to achieve major improvements in the tea
Ln&astry. To sustain these Improvements, it will be necessary to ensure
increased green-leaf production by smallholders through ensuring attractive
proaducer prices and adequate availability of production inputs and
extsension services (para 53). Although TTAs financial situation has
Laproved notably, it remains fragile and further efficiency improvements
ara needed to place it in a sustainable position (para 26). Additional
actions are needed to resolve the labor shortage problem in TTA's estates
Cpara 33), and to continue to reduce its costs and improve financial
mnuagement (para 34). Furthermore, TTA will need to retain the key
technical assistance personnel for a longer period than originally
arulsaged and to ensure that the counterpart local staff are well trained
to replace the technical assistance staff (para 35). Above all, the
Gowortment will need to ensure continuation of a favorable macroeconomic
fraetwork.
Pilx4izs and Leseons Learned
5.        The most import lesson to be learned from this project is the
aeed to ensure appropriate macroeconomic framework and domestic pricing
poLicy. The past poor performance of the Tanzania tea industry, including
the weak financial position of TTA, has been primary due to currency
cerwosluation sad failure to relate domestic tea prices to export prices.
These issues are now being addressed under the ongoing adjustment program.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
PART I:   PROJECT LstiIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Prolect Identity
Project Name   :    Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project
Credit No.      :   CR. 1037-TA
RVP Unit        :   Africa Region
Country         :    Tanzania
Sector              Agriculture
B.   Backaround
1.        The Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project (STCP) was a follow-up
to the Smallholder Tea Development Project (CR 287-TA for US$10.8 million),
which was completed in 1979, and which had aimed at (i) expanding
smallholder tea area by 8,300 ha from 3,270 ha to 11,570 ha and involving
14,000 smallholders; (ii) increasing processing facilities by constructing
two new factories and expanding three existing ones; and (iii) constructing
300 km. of tea roads.
2.        A full review was carried out in 1979.  At that time, the
project achievements had fallen short of appraisal targets; around 702 of
the targeted area had been planted and production was expected to fail
short by 40 to 50?. It was felt that the shortfall was mainly due to the
setting of over-ambitious targets at the time of appraisal, weak project
management and Government of Tanzania (GOT) efforts to introduce collective
farming. Out of the two new factories to be constructed, only one was
completed. While tea production had doubled between 1975 and 1979, the
quality of tea had deteriorated because expansion of processing capacity
had not kept pace with production. Other components, such as road
construction, were fully implemented and the number of participating
farmers exceeded the appraisal estimate.
3.        Th6 Tanzania Tea Authority (TTA) was established as a parastatal
corporate body in 1968, responsible for all aspects of smallholder tea
development as well as for the functions previously exercised by the Tea
Board of Tanzania. These functions include promotion, supervision and
implementation of programs for the development of the tea industry; and
responsibility for all tea extension services. In addition, TTA owned and
operated tour tea factories and estates at Rungwe (Katumba), Njombe
(Lupembe), Bkkoba and Lushoto (Mponde). TTA was established with
insufficient financial resources to effectively carry out its mandate. By
1979 TTA had accumulated large losses and it was felt that due to
institutional and managerial weaknesses, TTA was not in a position to
effectively support the expanding tea sector. In view of the above, the



2
Project Performance Audit Report 1/concluded that it was essential that the
successive years would be devoted to consolidation and strengthening of
TTA's organization, rather than to further expansion. In particular, the
quality of the tea had to be improved and the cost of production reduced.
This would require a general all-around strengthening of TTA and gresn leaf
collection facilities. In addition, it was concluded that some additional
processing capacity was needed to accommodate incremental smallholder green
leaf expected to be produced as a result of the First Phase Project.
C.  Pro1ect Obiectives and Descriitiot
4.        The Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project (STCP) was aimed at
consolidating ongoing TTA operations and -roviding additional processing
capacity to cater for the expected incre'Rse in green leaf production from
existing smallholder tea plantings. The project also sought to rectify the
imbalance between leaf production and leaf processing capacity and
generally improvt the quality of processed tea. Finally, the project aimed
at improving TTA's financial viability, organizational structure and
technical management. In this, the STCP design was fully supportive of
GOT's agricultural sector development strategy, which paid particular
attention to attaining self-sufficiency in food crops and to supporting
export crops. The strategy also put greater emphasis on production rather
than on the social aspects of rural developmunt projects.
5.        The project provided financing for:
(a) construction of one new factory at Ukalawa, completion of the
Mwakaleli factory to a four dryer factory, and extending and
reequipping the four existing factories at Katumba, Lupembe,
Bukoba and Mponde;
(b) provision of transport facilities, including green leaf
collectton vehicles, spare parts to put repairable vehicles in
working order, vehicles for both the factories and TTA
headquarters, and vehicles operating costs;
(c) establishment of fuelwood plantations to substitute wood for oil
in operating the factories;
(d) a tea planting program of an additional 200 ha at Njombe and a
total of 630 ha infilling in three of the four tea areas:
(e) provision of credit to project growers for farm inputs;
(f)  purchase e, two warehouses in Dar-es-Salaam;
(g) construction and maintenance of 176 km of tea roads; and
(h   technical assistance and in-rernental local staff to strengthen
TTA's factory engineering ar&4 technical managewent, and improve
its operations.
1/ Report No.2787, dated December 18, 1989.



3
D. Irolect Desism and Ormanizatton
6.       'the project was originally prepared by GOT, with support from
the FAOIUNDP Marketing Development Bureau, and was finalized with the
assistance of IDA. The project was appraised in July 1978. Subsequent
analysis showed, however, that the deteriorating financial position of TTA
would continue, even in the *with-project situation if a number of issues,
the most iVWortant ones relating to Government pricing policies and TTA
cost structure, were not re,solved. Agreement on these issues was difficult
to reach, especially as sowe were not specific to the tea sub-sector but
affected all agricultural production and parastatals.  It was only during
post-appraisal, in October 1979, that it was agreed that TTA could only be
established as a viable long term entity ifs (i) the current green leaf
price were held constant in nominal terms over the project period; (ii) the
local market price of made tea were set equal to its export parity price;
and (iii) the agricultural extension services, with all associated costs,
were transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture. These issues were
included as Credit Agreement Covenants and agreed upon with GOT during
negotiations in April 198C.
7.        The project, being a follow-up to the Smallholder Tea
Doevelopment Project, had a clear conceptual foundation. It was generally
well prepared witn appropriate scope and scale to address most of the
project objectives. The design was based on a thorough technical review of
TTA's factory needs and analysis of TTA's financial requirements. Yet,
although the macroeconomic and institutional issues affecting the project
were fully realized during appraisal, they were insufficiently addressed in
the final design, even if account is taken of the severe limitations of an
individual project design in addressing macro-economic issues.
8.        The roles and responsibilities of the institutions involved in
the project were clearly defined and understood, but stringent government
regulations and control regarding parastatals inhibited TTA from becoming a
viable enterprite especially during the initial years of the project.
9.        Green Leaf Production.  The factory construction and
rehabilitation program was designed on the basis of projected future
smallholder and TTA estate production. With the benefit of hindsight, it
is clear that green leaf production estimates were over-optimistic,
especially when seen against the general economic conditions prevailing in
the country at that time. Farmgate prices were low, and the project
recommended to reduce them further in real terms (see para 10). Farmers
faced difficulties in obtaining farm inputs and extension support was poor.
TTA faced serious difficulties in attracting estate labor due to poor wages
and inadequate facilities. Although the production levels of the extensive
Phase I plantings had been found disappointing, farmers were expected to
achieve yields of 3-5000 kg green leaf per ha. Yet, the project did not
include any production promotion components, with the exception of 200 ha
of new tea plantings and 630 ha of infilliag. Total Incremental annual
production of these plantings was estimated at a mere 195 tons of made tea,
compared to the planned incremental factory processing capacity of 2,600
tons p.a. As a result, the factory construction and rehabilitation



4
programme had to be modified during implementation and rehabilitated
factories were underutilised (Annex 1, Table 3).
10.       It was agreed during negotiations that GOT would not increase
the price for green leaf in nominal terms for the duration of the project.
This would have meant that the smallholder price in real terms would have
decreased xrom TSh. 1.10/kg. to TSh. 0.65/kg. by the end of the five-year
project period. The reasoning behind this concept was that tea growing was
already highly profitable compared to competing crops. and that a reductioa
in green leaf cost would greatly assist in reduciug TTA's operating costs.
In reality, GOT increased green leaf prices virtually every year, as shown
below. Yet, real producer prices remained at or below 1980/81 levels until
1986187. Although this contravened the pruject covenants, the covenant was
not appropriate in an environment with continuing depreciation and high
domestic inflation.
al lhold r8/8 191/82 192/8 19 J 1S3/6 W/06 1965Se 960197 1557/58 188/89 v
Or n Lfl                                Youl:  hks._  
In "Ig lnal term    1.60  1.60  2.0O   2.80   4.10  4.90  T."   9.90  14.m0 
CP1 V             Wm   126   12   296    210   874   495   S1   T70
la real terp     1.60   1.19   1.28   1.84   1.47   1.81   1.54   1.02   1.92
e-'imlted second payment of Tlb 0.89.
a Consumr Price Isdex 198/91-UN.
11.       Partly due to the slow project start-up, and contrary to
expectations at the time of appraisal, TTA's operations continued to be
unprofitable. Due to its continuing losses, TTA's equity had virtually
been wiped out and had a negative working capital in 1982. TTA Was
therefore no longer in a position to effectively carry out its mandate.
TTA negotiated with GOT for a substantial equity contribution, but it took
until 1986/87 before adequate contributions had been made. A more
realistic financial analysis would probably have pointed to the need for
such equity contribution during appraisal.
12 ~    The fact that no maintenance was included for Phase I roads or
for roads to be constructed under the project, led to serious deterioration
of some of them, which in turn made some more distant producers difficult
to reach, increased vehicle operating costs and threatened green leaf
collection.
Z. Protect ImDlementatioa
13.       Project implementation Was slow.  The credit closing date
(originally December 31, 1985) was extended three time to December 31,
1988. By the original closing date only 31Z of the credit h&4 been
disbursed (Table 3 of Part III). A number of reasons can be cited, of
which the decision not to proceed with the uew f¶ctory at Ukalawa (total
cost around US$3 million) and the grave financial difficulties faced by TTA
in the initial yzars were particularly important.



5
14.       Due to the long duration of the negotiations between TTA and GOT
regarding its financial restructuring, wh.ich severely impaired project
implementation, IDA announced at least on one occasion its intentior. to
cease disbursement until agreement was reached. Although disbursement was
never actually stopped, 1/ it interfered with TTA's management efforts to
proceed with the project. Other factors included slow procurement
procedures and poor coordination between the various GOT agencies,
especially with respect to the release of funds and approval of procurement
documents.
15.       As far as physical implementation is concerned, the project was
generally implemented satisfactorily. The project was modified during
appraisal. Implementation and the main changes made were as followss
i) Factory Construction and Rehabilitation was undertaken in
Katumba, Hwakaleli, Lupembe, Mponde and Bukoba. The Ukalawa
factory was abandoned due to insufficient crop in the area.
Instead, Lupembe factory, in the same area, was further expanded
to accommodate the combined crop. Factory upgrading was
implemented more or less as appraised. Actual requirements were
modified somewhat during implementation when tie need arose.
The expected power supply from TANESCO grid to Mwakaleli factory
did not materialize and the power supplied to other factories
was often unreliable so that standby generators were purchased -
in some instances from bilateral funds - in order to minimize
green leaf wastage due to power failures.   2/
ii) Tea PlantinR. The infilling programme, identified at SAR at 630
ha, was later reduced to 430 ha based on actual requirements in
the Njombe region. The actual achievement was around 372 ha
(59Z). The new planting programme of 200 ha was basically
achieved. Overall progress was good (Table 2 of Annex 1).
iii) Fuelwood plantations. The fuelwood plantation component was
overestimated because of the modest yields atu-ed at SAR in the
absence of any reliable data. Actual yields achieved were very
much higher (estimated at 25 to over 50 m31haJyr reported by
TTA, as compared to SAR estimates of 17.5 m31ha/yr) and
consequently the plantation area was reduced accordingly (Table
2 of Annex 1). It is estimated that although only 1,327 ha were
planted as compared to SAR estimate of 1,600 ha, fuelwood
production exceeds requirements, in particular in Lupembe,
Mponde, and Bukoba.
iv) Road construction. Two sub-components had been identified at
appraisal; 72 km in the BukobalNjombe area and 104 km in the
Rungwe/Lushoto area. While the former sub-component was
exceeded by 202, the latter, to be financed by NORAD, was never
1/   Except for the road construction component.
2/   Green leaf wastage decreased from an average of 1.4 million kg in
1982-1984 to 100,000 kg in 1987-88.



6
initiated. During supervision. it became clear that the NORAD
agreement with the G4overnment did not provide for the financing
of roads in Rungwe/Lushoto area.
v) TA and Training.  Early during project implementation, it was
decided not to employ TA for the road construction programme
and, instead, to employ a financial specialist/accountant for
TTA. All specialists were required longer than originally
envisaged, due to the slow start-up of the project. Staff
training was originally expected to be exclusively on-the-job
and supported by the expatriate TA staff. Late in the project
life it became evident that more formal training was required.
Such a training programme was approved in 1986 and implemented
in 1987/1988 (Table 4 of Annex 1).
16.       The major risks affecting the project were identified at
appraisal as mostly TTA organizational and managerial, as well as lower
than anticipated tea prices. In actual fact, the major constraint
hampering successful project implementation was the slow progress with
restructuring TTA's financial structure and upgrading its status as a
parastatal.
F. Proiect Results
17.       Although the project faced serious difficulties during its
implementation, its major objectives were achieved especially after the
extension of the closing date. One of the reasons put forward to support
extension of the project was to allow more time during which the project
would be used as a means of encouraging the Government to carry out
important policy reforms which would help to create the necessary
conditions to place the tea sub-sector on a recovery path. Recent macro-
economic policy reforms have already brought about significant and positive
impact on the tea industry in general and the financial situation of TTA in
particular (Table 5, Annex 1).
18        The project's main objectives included:  (i) strengthening TTA's
capacity to handle green leaf; (ii) strengthening TTA's financial
viability; and (iii) increasing export earnings from the tea industry. The
project performance in these regards ha been as follows.
19        Strenathenina TTA's cavacity to handle green leaf.  This
objective has been largely achieved. As a result of the project, total TTA
annual capacity to handle tea is estimated to have increased by about 2,150
ton made tea. Also, out-turn ratio improved from around 5 kg to
internationally accepted levels of around 4.6 kg green leaf per kg of made
tea.
20.       Capacity utilization has also improved.  In 1986/87 and 1987/88,
TTA factories operated, on average, at around 602 of their capacity. The
percentages ranged from the very low 34X for Bukoba to 73? for Katumba. It
is expected that production will increase so that capacity utilization
would reach nearly 80? in 1988189, ranging from 44X in Bukoba to over lOOX
for Lupembe.   Moreover, given that tea factories can be operated at higher



7
capacity levels by increasing the wo:king hours per day, it is expected
that TTA capacity will be adequate until at least the early nineties.
However, if green leaf production were to continue to increase as a result
of attractive producer prices and effective support services, further
factory capacity increase requirements, especially in the Lupembe area,
would need to be assessed at that time.
21.       Increase in export earnints.  Attaining this objective depends
basically on two parameters: export volume and unit value. The project did
succeed in increasing manufacturinS capacity and thereby potential export
volume. Although actual exports did not increase significantly, this
cannot really be related to project performance as the project did not
include significant production promotion components . However, without the
project, production would have decreased due to continuing factory
breakdown, high green leaf wastage and subsequent smallholder production
decreases. Increase in unit value, due to quality increase, was achieved.
The project was instrumental in increasing the withering capacity which has
led to more uniform wither. Improved drying efficiency helped to attain
even firing process while improved grading and sorting led to more refined
teas without traces of blemishes (stalk and fibre) in the primary grades.
All these aspects have contributed to an increase in the overall quality.
This is evidenced by an increase in the overall sales price of TTA teas at
the London auctions in recent years as shown in the following table. TTA
teas receive a premium over most of the other teas exported from Tanzania
and prices are at present at par with those received on average for Kenyan
teas.
Aversageoriomo for md. he. (INt/03 - 2251509)
1928  198S38  1984/86 l986/8  1r18/8  1987/88 im    I/s 
Tansanian average   209oF 210o   tl6f 118                86     9
TTA average       195    n/s    102    101       84      92    in
TTA as X of
Tanzanian avergoe   9N    n/a    Uso     an      as    155  t1153
U/ Durino th, fIrsat  uIx months
22.       Moreover, the improvement in quality has led to a higher
percentage of production to be suitable for export. In the past, teas
manufactured from some of TTA's factories were unsalable abroad due to
their smoky and overfired nature, mostly due to problems with the drying
facilities in those factories. These shortcomings have been overcome.
23.       Financial Performance of TTA.  At the start of the project the
accounts of TTA were three years in arrear and the Tanzania Audit
Corporation had audited the accounts only up to 1977/78 for which it was
unable to form en opinion. Accounts are now up-to-date and have been
satisfactorily audited. In 1982, Bank staff judged TTA virtually bankrupt.
Since then, the enterprise has made great progress towards becoming a
viable entity, mainly by reducing overheads and improving factory
efficiency. Yet, without some significant macro-economic policy measures
in particular the continuing depreciation of the Tanzanian Shilling against
major currencies, TTA would not have been able to reap the benefits from
the project activities.



8
24.       Annex 1, Table 5 shows TTA's profit and loss position up to
1988. While the corporation has realized a gross profit for the last
successive 5 years to 1987/88, its operating margins after deduction of
overheads have been negative throughout the project period. However, after
adding miscellaneous income (including a consumer tea cess), TTA has
operated at a profit since 1986/87. After adjustments for GOT subsidies,
accounting adjustments, special consumer levy and extraordinary income,
TTA's accumulated losses, which reached Tsh 46 million in 1982183, had been
reduced to Tsh 1 million in 1987188 and are expected to l/e turned into an
accumulated profit in the present financial year.
25.       Other indications of improved financial performance are the
debtsequity ratio which improved from l:-0.46 in 1981 to 1:3.1 in 1988; the
current assets: current liabilities ratio which improved from 1:2 to 1:0.61
over the same period; and the fixed assets and investmentas long term loans
ratio which improved from 1:0.94 to 1:0.35.
26.       The financial situation is still fragile and further efficiency
improvements and overhead reductions will be required in the future. In
particular, an increase in throughput, to improve the factory capacity
utilization, will be essential.
27.       Financial and Economic Rates of Return.  On the basis of
projected incremental TTA production and sales over a period of thirty
years, the financial rate of return is estimated at 20S and economic rate
of return at 282 (Tables 8 and 9 of Part III). These rates compare
favorably with the original SAR estimate of 6X and 212 respectively. The
higher rates are mainly due to higher tea prices, reduction in costs, and
the impact of the recent macro-economic reforms. TTA benefitted from the
significant depreciation of the Tsh against the USS, which increased the
gross sales revenue from an estimated Tsh 41 million p.a. to around Tsh 750
million in constant 1988 terms.
28.       Consulting services.  Technical assistance in the form of long-
term expatriate consultants played an important role in the original design
of the project as well as in its actual execution. Two Resident Engineers
were employed for almost the entire duration of the project. In addition,
one Chief Engineer was employed at TTA HQ for three years and one Chief
Factory Manager for four years. A Mechanical and a Construction Engineer
were employed for two years each. This TA package was effective, in
particular as far as the Resident Engineers are concerned, as they not only
assisted in installing the equipment for the factory rehabilitation
programme, but were particularly effective in, more generally, calibrating
the production lines of these individual factories, thereby reducing costs
and increasing quality.
29.       The Financial Director TA was particularly instrumental in
assisting TTA to strengthen its financial accounting and management system
as well as to assist TTA management in its essential financial control and
cost reduction efforts. The short-term (about 8 weeks) TA input to set up
a Management Information System (MIS) was effective to the extent that,
with subsequent follow-up of the Financial Director and Computer Training
financed under the Training Programme, the system was readily adopted and
is presently fully implemented.



9
30.       The likely problems to be encountered at the imminent departure
of the two Resident Engineers and the Financial Director should be
addressed, if project sustainability is not to be undermined (see para 34
and 35).
6. Proiect Sustainability
31.       The sustainability of the project's achievements will depend on
whether a number of issues will be satisfactorily addressed. The financial
viability of TTA will depend largely ons (i) increased green leaf
production from smallholders and TTA's estates in order to allow higher
factory utilization, and increased turnover to allow decreasing unit
production costs; and tii) maintenance of adequate smallholder green leaf
prices as well as availability of inputs and support services to
smallholders so as to increase production. Adequate maintenance of tea
feeder roads is also required in order to minimize leaf rejection and
transport costs.
32.       Smallholder production increases should be achieved if green
leaf prices remain attractive to growers and if input supplies will be made
available, supported by stronger extension services. TTA is presently in
the process of employing extension staff to complement the Ministry of
Agriculture extension efforts. TTA is furthermore engaged in providing
fertilizer for its tea growers on credit. MCW's capacity to maintain roads
is expected to be considerably strengthened by equipment recently procured
under the project.
33.       In order to increase production from its own estates, TTA will
have to overcome its labor shortage problem which presently affects its
operations. It is reported that up to 402 of green leaf production is lost
due to labor shortages.  TTA is already in the process of upgrading its
labor facilities such as housing and other amenities, but the prograam
probably will need to be stepped up. Present GOT regulations do not allow
TTA to offer more remunerative wages which would attract more labor to its
tea estates. Consideration for TTA to disinvest its estates should also be
given in the event that profitable production would prove unlikely in a
context of parastatal management.
34.       Sustainability will furthermore depend on whether TTA will be
able to continue its programs of cost control and financial management.
In particular, the present programms to accord greater financial and
managerial independence to the individual factories, in which also growers
would participate, should be pursued. In order to carefully advance on
this proposal, a continuation of the present Financial Director TA
assistance would be highly valuable.
35.       At the credit closing daxe, significant quantities of processing
and workshop equipment had not been installed. To allow prorer
installation of the equipment and appropriate modifications of production
lines, consideration should be given to extending the contracts of the
resident engineers as may be necessary. Similarly, a continuation of the
training programme is urgently required to improve the utilization of the
new equipment and continue to improve production efficiency after the TA



10
will have ceased. The actual costs involved for both TA and training
programme follow-up are extremely modest. In case no bi- or multi-lateral
donor can be found for this, TTA should consider financing these activities
from its own budget.
H. Bank Performance
36.       The Bank's involvement both during appraisal and implementation
has been quite intensive. Two appraisal missions and a follow-up mission
before negotiations were fielded, mostly to deal with the main issues
affecting the project. A total of 16 supervision mission were fielded over
a 7-year period. In the early stages of the project, more frequent
supervision would most probably have assisted a faster project 'take-off'.
In the period March 1983 to February 1985, when the project was in serious
difficulties and IDA intended to stop disbursement, a total of 7 missions
were fielded.
37.       The missions were generally well-staffed, though dominated by
financial analysts. Staff continuity was particularly good. The move
towards greater involvement by the Bank's Tanzanian Resident Mission in
project supervision, benefitted the project's implementation as it allowed
a greater involvement on the part of the Bank and a more intensive dialogue
with the parties involved.
38.       Bank's attitude towards the project was fairly flexible with
regard to changing components in the light of changing needs. The
project's single largest component, the construction of Ukalawa factory,
was abandoned in the light of disappointing production of green leaf in the
area. On the other hand the Bank was quite firm, announcing its intent to
stop disbursement when it came to insisting on GOT's contribution to TTA
equity, which was essential to the survival of the parastatal as a viable
enterprise. Disbursement was actually stopped once for the road
construction programme, as a result of the long delays in submission of
project audit reports.
1. Borrower Perforrmnce
39.       In assessing borrower performance, it should be realized that
three distinct GOT entities were involved in the project's implementations
central government, mainly consisting of the Ministry of Finance and
Ministry of Agriculture, TTA, and the Ministry of Communication and Works
( CW). Although at times some reservations were voiced about the
efficiency of TTA's efforts in pursuing project objectives, TTA generally
performed well, especially if the severe financial constraints faced by TTA
in the earlier years are taken into account.
40.       The transfer of adequate financial resources from central
government to TTA to allow effective operations was extremelj slow.
Negotiations between TTA and GOT were long-drawn and it was not until IDA
announced its intention to suspend disbursements, in May 1984, that GOT
responded favourably. It still took until 1987, however, before these
equity contribution had actually been made in full. Negotiations between



11
TTA and central government regarding the introduction of a meaningful
incentive system for TTA staff were never satisfactorily concluded.
41.       Introduction of a revamped producer price system, that would be
operated is a flexible manner to reflect changes in world market conditions
and at the same time would allow TTA to operate as a financially viable
Pnterprise, was slow. Although the large currency depreciations have
resolved most of the problems for the time being, a greater involvement of
TTA in the setting of the producer price would be useful. It is also
necessary to introduce a two-tier price system, incorporating parameters
for green leaf and made tea quality, and this should be pursued
expeditiously.
42.       MCW performance was mixed. Activities started only in July
1983, two years after project effectiveness, mostly due to procurement
procedure problems as procurement had been coupled to the Fifth Highway
Project.  MCW efficiency was also hampered by slow release of funds through
TTA and from GOT. Submission to IDA of audited accounts for the road
construction component was erratic.
J. Prolect Relationshin
43.       The relationship between the borrower and the Bank was basically
sound throughout the project's implementation. The understanding of the
scope of the project by GOT and IDA differed, however, on a number of
points (paras 7 and 8); GOT being more inclined to limit the project's
scope to investment in the tea sector and IDA perceiving a somewhat broader
one, in which the macro-economic and sector policy issues would be
addressed (para 17).
K. Consultinm Services
44.       See para 28 to pars 30.
L. Prolect Documentation and Data
45.       During implementation, the SAR report was generally perceived as
useful. However, the three successive one-year extension of the closing
date and the high depreciation of the Tansanian ahilling, caused the
document to be no longer very useful for financial planning purposes. It
was also felt that, both in the SAR as in the legal agreements, not
sufficient attention was paid to defining GOT's equity contribution
obligations. Because these were not spelled out, negotiations during
implementation on this point were more lengthy than would otherwise have
been the case.
46.       PCR data regarding physical project implementation were fairly
readily available, due to the availability of up-to-date TTA accounts,
although the data contain a number of inconsistencies.' Data regarding
component costs, including GOT contributions, were not readily available.
Although supervision missions made an attempt on at least two separate



12
occasions, to comuence collecting data on project impi-mentation and costs
on a regular basis, these efforts were not followed up by the project
authorities.
M. Conclusion and Lessons Learned
47.       The project has achieved significant results, following the
extension of the closing date and recent adjustment of macro-economic
policies.   The main lessons gained from the project suggest that
implementation would have been facilitated and the project impact would
have been enhanced bys
i)      having appropriate macro-economic policies in place up
front; this would undoubtedly have led to a quicker
strengthening of the TTA's financial situation and improved
capability to support the development of the tea industry;
ii)      providing for formal training of key counterpart staff in
the initial project design and taking early actions to
facilitate the needed training;
iii)      undertaking a more thorough analysis of TTA's equity
capital requirements and agreeing on actions to be taken to
strengthen its equity capital; and
Iv)       paying greater attention to ensure that the agreement with
NORAD provided funds for tea roads and, if not (as it
turned out), to make alternative arrangements for the
required funds.



13
PART IIs   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Comments and Observations on Part I of PCR
1.        The borrower agrees generally with most of the comments made in
the part I report prepared by FAO/CP mission that visited Tanzania in
February 1989. In a few areas the borrower would like to add or supplement
additional points which are given in the following paragraphs:
2.        Para 10 of Part Is  There was a covenant in the credit agreement
that GOT would not increase the price for green leaf in nominal terms for
the duration of the project. Probably it was assumed at the appraisal time
that there would not be continuous depreciation of the shilling and high
domestic inflation. Had the covenant been enforced, it would have
adversely affected the production. In our view, the covenant was not
realistic and was not necessary and that increases in prices given by the
Government should be accepted as practical and realistic.
3.        Para 11 Eouitv Contribution:  It would have been better if the
equity contribution issue would have been pointed out at the time of
appraisal and made a separate covenant in the credit agreement. When in
1984, the World Bank Supervision Mission realized the pathetic liquidity
situation of TTA, IDA announced its intention to cease disbursement until
equity contribution is made.   This itself took up to 1986-87,  Equity
contribution has helped TTA a lot. However, with continued devaluation of
the TSh and high domestic inflation this issue needs to be looked into
afresh.
4.        Para 12:  It would have been better if some funds have been
maintained for the road maintenance in Phase II for the roads constructed
in Phase I of the project as well as those constructed under Phase It.
5.        Para 15 (i):  In the appraisal, it was envisaged that Tanesco
grid would supply power to Nwakaleli factory. This has not been done till
today. This resulted in additional capital expenditure for purchase of
generators and increase in cost of production. It would have been better
if a covenant could have been included to this effect in the credit
agreement.
6.        Para 15 (ii) Tea Planting:  There are some errors both for
fuelwood planting hectarages and infilling figures for teas. The credit
figures are indicated in Annexure I.
7.        Though it is difficult to work out the yield and return by
farmers on the new planted or on the existing areas, it is possible to do
so on the total area. We give hereunder the yield per ha. achieved during
1987188 on the different areass



14
Statement Showint Area Planted and Yield (1987/88)
Branches       Before                               Total     Yield
Proiect   Additional      Total     GL         per ha
(ha)      (ha)         (ha)       (kg'000)  (GL kg)
Rungwe          4035   -                  4035      9204       2281
NIombe           1835       197           2032      3344       1645
Lushoto          1672       -             1672      3426       2049
Bukoba           1611                     1611      1099        680
9153      197           9350     17073       1826
8.        Para 15 (iii) Fuelvood Plantations  The figure of Mponde were
omitted by error. These have been included in Annexure I.
9.        Para 15 tv) and 35 TA and Traininag  In addition to vnat is
stated in Part I, TTA views are given belows
10.       Training Facilities: As stated in Para 15 (v) of Part I, on the
job training was envisaged at the time of appraisal. Later considering the
need, training for factory and engineering staff was agreed and financed by
the World Bank during 1986187 and 1987188. PCR has already noted the
result thereof by improving the quality of teas produced and sold in London
auction. The prices obtained are above the national average and almost
comparable with Kenyan teas (Para 21). Training aspect of the people
involved in day to day tea processing have almost revolutionized the
processing at the factories. The factories staff, after their visit to
KTDA and UK are more confident with what they are doing.
11.       TTA is still not self-sufficient in factory, engineering, tea
tasting and financial management manpower. The Project would be greatly
benefited in the long run, if the Bank would considers
-    to allocate funds for the training for these scarce staff;
-    to finance the two Resident Engineers and Finance Directors for at
least one year for smooth hand over as recommended in Para 34 and 35
of PCR Part 1.
13.       Para 20:  It is true that capacity utilization could be nearly
80S in 1988189 ranging from 442 in Bukoba, due to inadequate green leaf
production, to 109Z for Lupembe. In fact at Lupembe, many times during the
year, we have to restrict farmers from plucking. The pre-feasibility
couducted by Hinister Agriculture Ltd. (funded by World Bank) concluded
that a new factory at Ukalawa is urgently required. GOT development funds
for 1989/90 provided some funds for preliminary work for a new factory.
Full feasibility studies are being done at present.



15
14.       Para 22:  TTA has been exporting more teas due to improvement in
quality which is quite evident from the following:
ExDorts                   Local Sales      Total
London 2  DirectX SS
'1000 kg  '1000 kg                 '1000 kg         '1000 kg
1984-85   1015  23 1236   27                  2241     50      4492
1985-86    505  13 1638   43                  1704     14      3847
1986-87   1021   30 1289   38                 1067     32      3377
1987-88   1239   29 1853   43                 1215     28      4307
1988-89    457  23 1001  5')                  554      27      2012
(up to Dec. 1988)
With improved tea quality you export more.  TTA realized much more money
and the country got more foreign exchange from increased volume of export
and unit vr,lue particularly from 1987/88 bearing in mind the very low World
Market prices.
15.       Paras 31 & 32:  TTA is quite confident to increase the
production in the coming years and that is why Corporate Plans for five
years have been made for 1988/89 to 1992/93. One of the major factors is
active part_cipation by smallholders in the management of the factories in
addition to providing agricultural inputs - like fertilizer, chemicals on
credit. supported by strong agricultural extension services through Leaf
Officers being employed by TTA.
16.       Smallholder's Participation in the Maraxement of Tae Factories:
The Bank financed the study of Smallholder's participation and two tier
system of payment for green leaf as successfully managed zt Kenya Tea
Development Authority. It has been accepted in principle:
-    to make factories independent subsidiary companies of the
Authority;
-    to allow 402 shares and directorship to Smallholders in the
Companies;
-    to implement two tier system of payment for green leaf.  Though
it has been accepted, it could not be implemented because every
year the Government was increasing green leaf prices more than
the industry can afford. In December 1988, TTA took the lead
and gave second payment to farmers relating to 1987188 because
of the profits made by the Authority.
17.       Branch Management Committees have been formed incorporating 402
representative from smallholders. Henceforth, it is iery much desirable
that the Government should not increase green leaf prices without having
prior consultation with the Authority. On the other hand, TTA will ensure
that the second payment must be made to farmers every year.
18.       Para 33:  It is true that production from TTA's own estates is
very low mainly due to labor shortage problem which can be taken at least
at 40S. During 1986, the above fact was realized by the World Bank and a



16
long term estate incentive package was prepared. It required a
considerable sum as invested for providing better housing and other
amenities as vell as cash incentive linked with productivity. TTA is still
determined to implement the same and looking for funds from GOT and other
sources. TTA does not agree with the idea to disinvest its estate as
stated in PCR by the Bank.
19.       Para 37s  TTA concurs with the views given in the PCR and would
like to add that: The project was benefited as far as the execution is
concerned from the time the Bank deputed their representative in Dar to
supervise the project. The decisions, execution was quick compared to the
one when it was under RMEA Nairobi. DAR-REP was of great assistance in
physically assessing the bottle-necks and problems and providing solutions
wherever needed.
20.       Para 40:  TTA would like to supplement on some of the issues
raised in PCR by the Bank and these are:
i)   Eauitv Contributions
As stated in Para 14 of Part I of the report, when World Bank put
pressure on the Government to release equity, funds were released in
installments between 1984 to 1987. A total sum of Shs.117.6m/a was
released as equity which was based on June 1983 accounts. Due to
devaluation and increase in cost of production and inflation, even
this contribution works out to be very meager. The result is that
TTA has to take heavy overdraft from the Bank at 272 interest. This
effects the profitability and eventually the viability of the
Authority. The workings based on June 1983 and June 1988 audited
accounts for the equity requirements are:
June 1983    June 1988
------------- TSh Million------
Fixed Assets/investments etc.            86.6          149(*)
Permanent working capital
(four months' needs)                     49.1          211(A)
(a)  Total long term funds required    135.7           360
(b) Equity requizements on the basis
of debts equity ration 12           90.5         240
(c) Equity actually provided based
on June
(i) Advances towards equity        14.5        164.0
(ii) General Reserve                 8.5          8.5
(iii) Loss carried forward          (48.0'        (1.2)
(27.1)       171.3
(d)  Total requirement (b - c)           117.6          68.7
(*)  Excludes investment in EUTCO being only notional figure.
(A)  Pased on 1988/89 budget.



17
To sustain the viability of the project for a couple of years to
come, ways and means should be found so that additional equity
contributions of Sbs.68.7m/- are gradually increased. Further due to
continuous depreciation of shillings, it should be regularly reviewed.
Alternatively the equity contribution can be achieved by conversion of
future profits by TTA issuing share certificates to the Treasury for the
amount required as extra working capital after agreeing the required amount
with Treasury.
ii)  Local Proiect Funds
The project would have benefited and the rate of disbursement been
higher from having a special account as is novw comon in new bank
assisted projects.
iii) Gradina of TTA's Status
At the time of appraisal it was planned to upgrade TTA's structure to
motivate competent staff. Government continued to play vital role in
fixing up the salary scale of parastatal employees without giving any
consideration about the particular scarcity of category of technical
staff. Though some improvement has been made to upgrade TTA's status
during 1987 and 1988, but it is still not enough to attract and
retain the competent technical staff.
iv) Incentive System
A broad incentive package is being prepared by TTA to remunerate
adequately the qualified and scarce staff. The board has given green
light in this respect. Once approved by the board the package will
be presented to the relevant Government agencies for the final
acceptance or otherwise.
v)   Procurement Procedure
Import procedure should be simplified and agreed in advance and
should be part of the credit agreement as far as the borrower is
concerned. Similarly the bank should as well be flexible on payment
terms to facilitate the timely importation keeping all checks and
internal checks needed for the safe operations. TTA was benefited
when the procedures were changed to 75Z advance against guarantees
and balance 252 on presentation of shipping documents.
21.       Para 44    TTA would like to add the following in addition to
those mentioned in the PCRt
i) Ensuring proper assessment of capital restructuring at the appraisal
time and making adequate provisions in the credit agreement.
ii) Ensuring adequate and timely release of counterpart local funds.



18
iiW) Reviewing prockrement and pWartation procedures during appraisal and
incorporating arrangements to streamline these operations in the
Credit Agreement.
B.   Additional Paras on the Prolect
22.       Retention Accountst  TTA had been enjoying the two IDA Credits -
- 287-TA and 1037-TA, the latter being completed soon. So far TTA has not
been facing serious problems of foreign exchange due to the credit. To
allow exporters to function withot.t any interruption, Bank of Tanzania
allowed retention of lOZ of export proceeds for importation of machineries,
spa-es et^. It has been working very smoothly since 1984. During 1988
August, retention accounts were changed to Trustee Accounts and now these
have been completely abolished vith effect from 1st %pril, 1989 as far as
tea industry is concerned. We are afraid that this will effect adversely
the operations though it is too early to quantify.
23.       ExDort Promotions:  We feel that it would have been advantageous
and beneficial if there have been some funds under the project to carry
out some form of marketing research and a bit of promotion to one or two
sensitive growing markets. Travel funds are not easily available in the
country. The country depends on individual importers' efforts to visit
Tanzania and not TTA to visit the customers.
24.       Local Pool Prices  In the appraisal, it was agreed that local
pool price for itself would be adjusted from time to time to parity with
World Market prices. Accordingly a covenant 4.03 was included in the
credit agreement. Generally speaking, the quality of teas meant for the
local market is the same as meant for direct exports except that the grades
combination of teas destined for the local market works out to be about 10-
152 lower on the average if compared with grades combination destined for
the export market. The following table shows the direct export prices and
the comparable local prices.
Direct Export           Local Pool Price
Price per km.                  per ks.
TShs.                     TShs.
1988                     119                        60
1987                      95                        45
1986                      51                        32
1985                      33                        32
1984                      51                        18.30
1983                      25                        18.30
1982                      17                        12.30
1981                      15                        12.30
25.       One can see that the pool prices have always been lower than the
pari.y export prices.   The basic reason is that it is not always possible
to increase prices in local market to that level. The Ministry responsible
has its own policy that says local prices will be fixed in such a way that



19
producers cover their costs. Hence the local market prices are based on
production costs and not on world market prices. In principle this is very
much acceptable to the tea industry if it could be done in time. However,
it is always a year or so behind schedule which in a high inflationary
situation causes losses. As such, we feel this covenant was not necessary.
26.       Standardization:  There should be some agreement at appraisal
time for standardization of machineries and vehicles and thus incorporated
in the credit agreement to avail numerous advantages - like reducing the
value and list of spares, cost of carrying spares, ease of
service/malntenance etc. etc.
27.       SUPDVl  of Agricultural Inputss  There has been problem of
adequate and timely supply of inputs - mainly fertilizer, chemicals etc.
for estutes and smallholders for the last 4-5 years. Had the supply been
timely and regular, the achievements would been much better. The crucial
issues directly effecting the productivity should be analyzed at appraisal
time and adequate provisions and arrangements incorporated in the credit
agreementt.



Fuelwood Plantina and Tea Infillina
BAR
Branch              astimatesl979/80 1980/81  19t1182  1982183  1983184  1984185  1905186  1986687  1987168  1988189   Total
Vuelvood Plantlna  MA.)
uae-                           - -           --                     -        -        59      IlJ       226         -      395
ijoabe               600      40     100       193      155.5    108       116         -        _         -        -       712.5
Uponde               400      36       45       $5        9         -        -                  -                  -       125
Bukoba               400       -       S         -        -        50      115         -        _         -        -       170
Total              1.600      76     1SO      '228      164.5    156       231        59      110       226        -    1,402.5
0
Tea InfMIl1ng (ta.)
Rungwe               450       -      25        49      100        65       10         -        -         -        -       249
Njombe                90       -       6         4       56         -        -        11       10         -        -        87
Mponde                90       -        -        -        -         -                 36        .         -         -       36
Korogve                        -      10        11       27             -              -        -         -        -        48
Total                630       -      41        64      183        65       10        47       10         _        -       420



21
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related IDA Credits
Table 1: IDA CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Year of       Status/
Credit                  Puruose       ,APraisal    Comments
Smallholder       To expand the small-  1972        Satisfactory
Tes Development  holder tea area by                 outcome, but
Project (Credit  8,300 ha; expand                   achievements fell
287-TA)           processing facilities;            short of targets in
provide extension                 terms of area planted
and leaf collection               (692) and production
services; credit;                 (50-602).  Recalculated
and construct 300                 ERR was 12S against an
km of tea roads.                  appraisal estimate of
171 (PPAR Report No.
2787 dated Dec. 1979).
Follow-uo Proiect
No follow-up project
B. Proiect Timetable
Table 2s PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Planned      Revised
Item                    Date          Date          Actual
Identification                                      1976
Preparation                                         03/1977
0411978
Appraisal                                           0711978
Post-appraisal                                      1011979
Credit Negotiation                                  04/1980
Board Approval                                      06/1980
Credit Signature                                    08/1980
Credit Effectiveness    11/1980       01/1981
02/1981       04/1981



22
Completion              12/1985       1211986
12/1987
1211988       12/1988
Credit Closing          6/1986                      0611989
COMMENTS:
a)   Identification
The project was identified and discussed with the Government in mid-
1976 by a Bank mission in the course of supervising the previous project
under Cr 287-TA.
b)   Preparation
The project was initially prepared by the Government ( Ministry of
Agriculture and Tanzania Tea Authority) in March 1977, and finally by a
Bank mission in April 1978
c)   Anpraisal
The project was appraised in July 1978. Subsequent analysis showed,
however, that the deteriorating financial position of TTA would continue,
even in the with-project' situation if a number of issues, the most
important ones relating to Government pricing policies and TTA cost
structure, were not resolved. Following a post-appraisal in October 1978,
it was agreed that to establish TTA as a viable long term entity: (i) the
current green leaf price would be held constant in nominal terms over the
project period; (ii) the local market price of made tea would be set equal
to its export parity prices and (iii) the agricultural extension services,
with all associated costs, would be transferred to the Ministry of
Agriculture.
C. Credit Disbursements
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
IDA  PY             1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Appraisal Estimate  4.5   9.0  11.2  12.9  14.0  14.0  14.0  14.0  14.0
Actual               0.25  1.25  2.30  3.57  4.30  5.72  6.47  8.33  13.04
Actual as X of Est.  6    14    21      28    31    41    46    60    93
Date of final disbursement  29/12/1989



23
D. Prolect Costs and Financint
Table 4s PROJECT COSTS (US$ Million)
Estimated Costs         Actual Costs
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreian  Total
Civil Works       2.9     1.7      4.6     0.5        0.3     0.8
Equip., Machinery
and Vehicles      1.6     5.8      7.4     2.2        7.8    10.0
Tech. Assist.     0.0     0.5      0.5     0.0        0.9     0.9
Roads             0.7     2.2      2.9     0.1        0.4     0.5
lucre. Staff     1.6      0.0      1.6     0.2       0.0      0.2
Fuelvood & Tea
Planting          1.3    0.5      1.8      0.7        0.3     1.0
Vehicle O&M       0.4    0.8_     1.2      0.3        0.5     0.8
Total            8.5   11.5      20.0      4.0      10.2      14.2
Comments:
Overall costs were less than estimated mainly due to the cancellation
of the construction of a new factory, considerable reduction of road works,
and devaluation of the local currency which reduced the dollar cost of
local expenditures. These cost reductions were large enough to off-sQt the
higher costs for equipment, machinery and vehicles.
Table 5: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ Million)
Planned
Source of Funds            SAR       Revised   Final
IDA Expenditure Categories 14.00     ......    13.04
NORAD                       1.60     0.0         0.00
Government                  4.40                 3.00
Total                      20.00     0.00       16.04
Comments:
NORAD funds did not materialize. Contrary to the understanding
during appraisal and negotiations, the agreement between the Governrent and
NORAD did not provide any funds for the envisaged roads.



24
Table 6: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS (US$ Million)
Original           Actual
Catezory                                 Allocation       Disbursements
1. Civil Works
Part A                                   1.00              0.46
Part A.1                                 2.00              0.10
2. Driers and Boiler                         0.40              0.10
3. Machinery, equipment, vehicles
and spare parts                        4.60              9.62
4. Technical Assistance and consultants      1.00              0.92
5. Road Construction and maintenance         0.50              0.39
6. Salaries of incremental local staff       0.80              0.17
7. Puelvood plantation and
tea nurseries                          1.00              0.80
8. Vehicle operating costs                   1.00               0.48
Unallocated                               1.70              0.00
Total                                       14.00             13.04
Z. Proiect Results
Table 7:  DIRECT BENEFITS
Estimate   Estimate
SAR     At Closing At Full
Indicators                 Estimate Date        Develooment
TeA plantings ha            200      197         200
Tea infillings ha           630      372         400
Fuelwood plantation
Area: ha                  1,600   1,237        1,237
Output: cub. mlyr         28,000  73,250       73,250
Incremental factory
capacity: ton/yr            2,600   2,140        2,140
Roads: km
Bukoba/NIjmbe              72       86          86
RungvelLushoto             104      0           0



25
Table 8s ECONOMIC IMPACT
Estimated
Actual at
SAR                Full
Estimate          Development
Economic Rate of Return            212                 28Z
Underlving Assumptions
1.   Cost and benefits cover a period of 30 years.
2.   Benefits consist mainly of incremental tea production, quality
improvement and savings in the transport of green leaf
3.   Exchange rate used is the official rate prevailing in 1989
4.   Benefits are valued at border-prices, in 1988 constant terms,
using average London tea auction prices for production benefits,
and conversion factor of 0.75 for transport savings
5.   Costs consist of recurrent and capital investments.  Recurrent
costs are equated to border prices, in 1988 constant terms,
assuming foreign exchange cost at 702, vith local costs adjusted
by a conversion factor of 0.75.   Capital investment costs are
also valued in 1988 constant terms; border prices are determined
by assuming foreign exchange cost at 75? and a conversion factor
or 0.85 for local costs.
Coq ents:
The higher economic rate of return is mainly due to higher
auction tea prices and efficiency gains than expected originally, and
recent exchangp rate adjustments.
Table 9:   FINANCIAL IMPACT
SAR                 Actual
Estimate            Values
Financial Rate of Return           61                  202 1/
TTA Financial Indicators
Profits (Losses)tTsh'M          (32.4)               1.2 IL
Debt/Equity Ratio               ls(0.46)            1s3.1 3/
Current Assetl
Liability Ratio                 1s2                 1:0.6 3/



26
1/ At full development
2L Cummulative up to 1988
IL At the end of 1988
Underlyint Assumptions
1.   Cost and benefits cover a period of 30 years and are valued at
1988 constant market prices.
Coments
The higher financial rate of return is largely due to higher tea
prices, together with greater cost reduction, than expected at appraisal
partly as a result of currency adjustments.
F. Status of the Maior Credit Covenants
Deadline
Covenant                                  for
Section        Descritaion                Compliance          Status
Credit
Agreement:
3.03(a)   Engagement of a            12131/80    Done after delays
mechanical and road
construction
engineers
4.02      Upgrading TTA as a         12/31180  Upgrading of manager was
parastatal                           done in FY 87/88.
Complete upgrading of
TTA is still under
review
4.03      Local pool tea prices    n/a         Not met as required
to be adjusted from time
to time to parity with
world prices
4.04      Green leaf prices to be  n/a         Green leaf prices were
kept constant in nominal             increased regularly
terms and adjusted only              more or less in keeping
after consultation with              with domestic inflation
IDA if TTA's net income
remained positive



27
4.05      Audited project accounts nla        Generally met with
for roads to be submitted           frequent delays
6 months after the end of
financial year
Project
Agreement
2.02(a)   Engagement of: Chief      12/31180  Done as required
engineer
20.2(b)   t Two resident            12/31/80  Done as required
factory engineers
3.05      Engagement of             03/31/81  Done as required
Operation Director
and incremental
staff
4.04      Submission of audited      n/a      After initial
project accounts within             difficulties and
six months after the end            delays, the covenant was
TTA's financial year                met on time during the
last three years as TTA
financial management
improved.



28
G.   Use of IDA Resources  (Staff Weeks)
Table 10: STAFF INPUTS BY STAGES OF PROJECT CYCLE
Planned          Revised           Actual
HQ _ FieldF     ield                      Field
Stage of Project Cycle
Up to appraisal     n/a     n/a       n/a    n/a           63   35
Appraisal -
Board Approval       n/a    nla       n/a    n/a           5
Board Approval -
Effectiveness        nla    nla       n/a    n/a           3      2
Supervision          n/a    n/a       n/a    n/a          32    41
Total                                                 103    78
Table lls   SUPERVISION MISSION DATA
Field     Performance
Month/    No. of    Staff   Rating             Type of
Mission  Year      Persons   Weeks   Status    Trend        Problems
I         10180     2 (n/a)       2      2         2          F,M,T
II        9/81      2 (F,A)       4      3         3          F,M,T
III       4/82      1 (F)         2      2         3          F,M.T
IV        3/83      2 (F,A)       4      3         3          F,M,T
V         6/83      2 (F,A)       1      3          3         F,M,T
VI        9183       2 (n/a)      1      3          3         M,P,T
VII       3/84       1 1F)        2      3          3         F,M,T
VIII      7/84       1 (F)        1      3          2         F,M,T
IX        10/84     2 (F,A)       4      3         1          M,F,T
X         2/85       2 (F,A)      2      3          3         M,F.T
XI        10/85      1 (F)        1      3          3         n/a
XII       2/86       1 (A)        1      3          3         n/a
XIII      5/86       2 (1F.)      4      3          3         n/a
XIV       12/86      1 (P)        1      3          3         n/a
XV        3/87       1 (A)        1      3          3         n/a
XVI       11/87      2 (F,A)      4      2          2         nla
XVII      2189       2 (Ec,T)     6      2          1         n/a



TANZAIA
800lbolder To  LoMfIdatfeo Proleot
tmwaE  STATISTICS
19E30      aMLU        I1E E    IMZB 182-198 4    106/5            15,        1966/07    1"87
1. PrVetletes              gm         7647        7647       7647       7647       7647       7647        7647       7647
2. iTA g.t.t.              13246      1246       iUN         12C        ita 1268                          1268 12U   i8
$MSl. Iholds               ON         am          9178       9178       9178       9178       9178       9175        9178
4. Ote                      so         a            o         730        736        783        78          786        786
TOTAL           ism                   aeiee ismue            isee       Ism        too"       ism         issme
Tee         on (te)t
1. Priwete i.t.t..        11481       2         1479        11677       9657      Ism         9781       gm          5627
2. nTA Estates             47         44          S8W        46          629        7          607        408         369
S. srilbold.e   )                                                      482        6          a986 8a410             8519
4. Ot0e                    1179       1078        1130       1894      I111        116        186        1284       1U24
TOTAL           17812      17467      166"       1£"71       l61s       17401      16630      1406        1803
Too .ump.rt (teew):
1. Leed_  Asetls*          96         6714       4976       8Om         4281       4544       4220       468         4669
2. Dire" SW1as             a288       6676       9166       6876       1287       6we?        6681       7864        e8s2
8. TIPO S      les8746                864 7472 8a9m                     $791       a8m        40367      C9          6494
TOTAL           1S769      16944      1768       15681      2g394       14687      17070      10620       17986
ispert * oins
1.  aTnTUS                4239       C1177      46245      82286       82761      86698      U84m        80120      26698
2. Tube.'69              16m t66    16267       164642     171676     248401     46626    841666       8a1291       on"
Soure. TTA
Nts  Other etoteet ar, thbe    eUtes ns by Loek. and CDC l p rta r.htp with TTA.
Tee osport, ed  ertepgs *re bhoed on calenda   er r   toll. p od lcton t ea JJly/Js. Ftnestial Year.
ol2a



SSIIliholX    T" CoFlidolt on ProIoet
orC9U     rF SICAL   win ,  .&_N  OF FIEWh-M
Efjlj    1900191    10619Sf   1fl/3f           I084    1984            IS  SS    1986/6?    16171 8    TOTAL
Feelm.eW  .ltoottro   i 3
limp.                          -          -           -           --     ¢ -             --         6I 11                 220       8
0e.b9                  lIe i6S                11O          -                      -    -     a
Oh                                                                 0          -                                                       99 --  --  -_
1fi1_                        4 *                      --                                 115------   170
TOTAL             am                      226         196         18i         "1          so        It          226       1327
Rw*pe                         4S          26          49         10          6                       --         --          --       249
Ijembe                         so/                     4                     -                      it          is          --          7
Mpsd                           U0         -                       -     -          -     -          86          V           --        86
b,he ,                                    1o          11 f?                        -     -          _           _           __         46
TOAL                8          41          04         1N                      i s         47        1i           --        420
,-    -                             41         of          8t           4         18         1i         19 
lio  Ceeeree)e  hm
t5e85le  ost                             -          -           19          0                      -                                 i t-
ODtleD                      -- -- t                                      6 4                       a-                  --
lXtfi                       -~~~- --                --         *                                   - 2        -e
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
te#tlz5"                                  -           -          -                            1      9          20.5                  6 7
ErthwoAs                              -           -          -          11          it           9          11         24.C
Drals. Ditch                          -           --                    19          18          it          20.         5
r.wo s                                -i-                     -         1           1           15         22.5        to
8.    RlL   bs.o                                                                                                                          anot
imp lanted
h  SAl eetm   of tufeloed NW later rWlee  to: 11_g. 482 be, NJomb. 7l2 be,               to higor theestimated y.ids.
/ Total *ro, was reduce  to 430 he (loegpe 260 he sa  NJombe 9  ha).



31
Annex 1
tabl 3
_ma11hu1dr  Tan  twofl31idati8n Pgainet
PtTFAMM   PPOfltiTONA4 eAPACT  "UTIL1ATION
Year                              Factory
k~~LRW              agn   _Ba, .  TOTAL
-- -- - Annual Productions (tons mad. tea) -------
1978/79        1821           -           1076       1077        617       4591
1979/80        1846           -            861        905        462       4064
1980/81        1857           -            707        597        306       3467
1981/82        1532          269           670        608        382       3461
1982/83        1648          430           789        759        321       3947
1983/84        1924          306           930        822        200       4182
1984/85        1709          508          1035       1136        299       4687
1985/86        1655          503           778        992        246       4174
1986/87        1391          541           772        732         213      3649
1987/88        1523          510           723        719        240       3715
1988/89 Est   1600           700          1200       1100        310        4910
--------- Factory Capacity: (tons made tea) --------
with project  2100          1200          1100       1100         700       6200
-_____________  Capacity Utilization % ---------------
1978/79          87          -              90        98         88          92
1979/80          88          -              71        82         65         81
1980/81          88          -              64        S4         44         69
1981/82          73           22            61        55         SS          SS
1982/83          78           36            72        69         46          64
1983/84          92           26            85        75         29         67
1984/85          81           42            94       103         42          76
198S/86          79           42            71        90         35         67
1986/87          66           4S            70        67         30         59
1987/88          73           43            66        65         34         60
1988/89 gSt      76           58           109       100         44          79
Sources TSA



32
Annex I
Tab=e 4
me of Officeus            Field of                                  tstimates
A ~ha~ fte~.m*ian    UOLA          fluuaan      LnAUM         nAALlAU
1 saketlag na9"e         Ta Taestin       3 msoths       U..          491?
4 a F etoqry Nenaes      Tee ftoeo|$esn   2 mooths      Kenya         3126
6 v Factosy Eagluceuine r  achtue         2 auths       Kenya         4492
Moalteoseuo
7 X FecttoT revews/      Too ftocessaag  2 m oths       t s,          S474
Last. Stats.
4 x Uatch NAsegers       Tea Uusaufvy/  2 wek            R0076        3120
ptoceessin
3 x tfctory Naeomers     Ta Tasti ng      I mth          U.S.         $212
S x Accountants          Coegute          1 weekt enya                2750
?zocess J
I a Cbhit Eginte.         cbiney         (I sea"t        tenya)       500
Manteaceo (1t month         tndiel
30 Of tics sent tog  hoct-ter  teatO   duw ig 1971/86 at a total cost
of uS$ 34,301.



I.... *000                                            9I*I9*pSI    oqlg           019#        Off9"*$t9
b Wit         m9w.-                                   SIiISl*      "11''. 3.9113               wtum-                    u      "'^t t"*1^
*              3  I       XU E9wn          3153 F   S WlimUMi'                      mg           mw.          msv          P9*19 9iI PzS 
-n                                                       wM61.         alsv.        *gI4l.       3491           w"V-             IPm " IWP #8*  4I4
SJ ~~~~~~~~~*                      e"    t       wul          0,11          a'vt "^ "- WI -                     u        %pv24ftotN
to un     maU isi      iiU*          31            191            u-         f131           5*-          F~Jj 5*8' sa'visSP4
. 5111    31wi .lomi                                            WIWI-        aIW           5511- oI9d onl .sit"
*         seaW            me            -                                                                            r    " .  inst r8u  98993
149 *m   us    a        lf   us,-otc a-ism   fri          31w          uin-         mm                             Ws JRnu  99wi50
u  u wist  iis  wmu        mu   *"tgm   'a  ssiiw*  tru-  mu-    an-  Its   ww-                Wu- VS    iWI-       8      ^  9WV
W IN    oitW ls W m     or1    M t-n|    *  l   uX    oil' win    "It          Ws"* t         '- "                    tl w
I t Ii U i"W9  5*U  3115sf  Wit  lUll  5511 Whi5oWml    Wnt "                    Wt Im   n    IrK   191"5           -     m        9
US  S  1 US 311915  9115      irml  35511   39   'urns  *Is            "~~Ira    mm   l       i aSm   w
........ ....         . .   _      ..n.....      ..............  .._._                       -...-...........
et   wEli  tieu  won   t             wo   e  un w  s a,       s wrI                       W                           irE .a .    we
l# ,"M1911 tt'" su   a," ,t ua .                        .                                       . ..i,e"
i "   ts  m   ce mm   us  i   su e ta   iwW                         81"1            Wm                                ' . .
tt * t   --                         16 _1 t    '¶6t "       1   3 l U 19-S1 ff31 41 911  U  U    tMi            *1   l11
Si                sw WOO                        w scmu    i Ws"                       mm is  Ni 3t1                         'Pm Rql
'  II 3 st 36 US £  w sss Iw  w a   w                                                      n irta "   3t t'  55  .1 
St 1119  51t     I    to 1    I    to 6   1    is U   I                                    t  3   In
isi      Uf   115' irS   591  f1|15    51 mIIi    f1515  t911 5514    ie              Il-56   51                        nVISJ
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............ ....__=. _._   
ii;' swi   ism tius um                 rn wge             ei    ens mul wm  mus   w              fl9                      Wnl4 95199
-Zt tn.                   tiz --AIn       Ir                                                      .
.~~~~~~~~~~~ III'S 9513'tl
s-au,U   rstEl.w           wur.n          'p,   utuw                ww           wIlli3159WIll
1IW~  'SI 13   1611 331  'SI us   'in, UOR3w!m = 3 "I iraPI4 Vd          16-I     33
sr5 i41        "  'ti l    9641 t        1,4M  1      ices          gg^t;        aid*1         564'1
*    I4nK*FTL  0314 SA I_ ISV  _1 aD  NGVS                                      I Sw uc_
v1



TANZANIA
Sj I hol dr Tea C         Wida ion Project
TAM4aAA TEA NJ1HORITY
U c5B  UmR   As  a             iNt                                 (?.am. '000)
155m   WIorD                                  01"1            1962           1963            19e4         *S05           t9*1                          t ?
nsal Asee.*                                         55.1" 9        6j,n           64,59S          55,7          5,347          62,15t         st.6S         94,k
J t 2*SS                                             71,160        9,160         11,590          32.50         30p,247        0,144           15 . 2       120,105
W.1"_t rtun  Z  b  t>**t                 4,            6,s~~&O  940  6,449           i,2  14         §*Ml  16611s,781            15.5"         S1,2%5
Mffenm.. "  i.,t, a,wb 00w s  j                       1.460         1,634            916             - n
^011 Aml                                   36.315         64.552        t0t,447         14,049         111,412       194,690         294." 0       If,96
46**  NA "*no                                       24,441          5049          42,43)          42#30         6s,212       OU4911            8s,0o        1>0,25
b " a AGweRn o*2,3"4                                               46.*4          40,6ft          $4,612         174019        18,932          95,660       s1."44
mattef                                                 141             h7                            465            56            a5            1.170         5.26
0.   SIaull                                              6              5            1) 5m II$                       5                          l.060
@b.&h,k balm...                                        43          110165         1.64            1620           2,60           9,246          54.401        19,96
I=  - C        u LaD.ttIm                           12.65          54 45.         14.134          W.23          *s,401       1t6,059          t l.116       2)7, n 4
3.5...., i                                          55.693          4*091         14,1046         23,52          1.624         10,163          16.41?        25,12
01.415... _4 Au_1.                                  a9,353         20.29          33,00)          23039           fIs1m        11.03 4         45,630        57,7P
DAM            (00&ACe )                            32,4            131, 1o6                      41,109         5t1           11,6,3         116,429       154.416             .
"IS IlnwS AM OOSS3640,3I7)                                          o0*02)        31.31           45.719         90,00         1,92111        I1551         145,44
t O t A L                  U.4f.        *.   4117. O4                          .   .9Iff211         1400D           248.481
Lb.... sew""       St 53,33                                                       1336)            O530         11.41 t       140,414         158.1759      Is3,q
1dfl304d *ewio D. 1.                                               13.910         tS4991           ,219          &so °O,90°                    2,235         713
law* tV.a   . _e .m S              _3* _1,3 _             _      .                                                               - 
Ot.o Sm  r ..to                    *53,552                        1051            91,1           1)21#45 t790,                 81,62)          19,904
p.I...wtp".Simn 5am."                                6,464          6,463          6.464           0,411         4,463          0,4661          8461
69114a  3....,.                                               -             -               -                     -              -       i
*Ainalat.4 h.XtI/(ta....)                           (18,Us)       (35.235)       (45.555)        (38..6s)       (31,415)      (54,400)        (383i53)      (s I)
9     A L.              34,411        1143            1,6)           111            195.21?       16600           31,9              13d5
.   .
e O e ^ L   bt47   tst,417   zl,e61   41,102       9S,217       t66,t}          74(t**I7t-



-  .~~~~~            foN~~~~~~.on  i.t~~~~~~~~~o~~~M. ~~~IBRD  lA083R
jUGANDA  '-I                                                             N                          '                                                                                NA
Es-f~~~~~~~~~~~-
IWcS                       I            MARA\NA
RWANDA                 I LAK~ tPUKOS                                                                                                          -BINo"4 
K' EAST    Z A I R E              ~~~~~~~~~Do, *s Sa.o, 
C EA N
BURUNDI                                                                                                                                      SIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~  ABA
RK                           ZAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAMIU
TANANIAM
SMALLHOLDER TEA
RESR~.J<              C9NSOLIDATION PROJECT
R  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LSOOILM                                                                             Emi$f"~ TeaAra
Mwai Roadis
Itive
Swaips
S IhwiYotiono   Awrpots
-  Rbgm Rmaom",
Oa '~LAAM
-   V.  "' CO~0AS5T           VAFIAISLAY0.
B   E    Y  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ b~a  40  `60  80  0120 6-140
0                                                                m
INDIANI OCEAN
Z A M B I ~~                 ~           ~                                                            MZABiU
-~~~~~ I-..~~~~~~~~~
TOL.,~~&a  33                                              3'.                                                          *0
MARCH I990



SMALHOLDER TEA CONSOD DATION PROJECT                         .-
Runoe Areo                       . t                     \    4s t TANZANIA
'\t T. 7U.'t CAr'4    /                          A k * --- '                             I
ooWM=ftU& \  A __
0       a.   3  4    5                                             I                                       I
0    a    s    4    s    6    7    8 
KILOMETERS 



4N     J
z -4n                                                                   v
N:is o  R.  11    1         
*  .    F
: LZZ        -                                   --                             .                                  i
-, *                                                                                   I..~~~~~~~~~a
o                ~~r'w" *z~
**  I                                                                                     z~~~~~~~10 
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4*3



/s- RD - r- - -      __ 1408611
TANZANIA )
ZAa,IA                         U  K A  L A W  A,
da_tof       r a                     /b8  * fMu
Dx e Of nom diw*o
aiI/ ege*                       *".                                        *.                 /
e o itm    fo-::r e
# - mele;:wemIpI 
Oingmalevs lie ,,m jugam............
hfn'- m-- meeete a*- aluj,S\  
anfdi~ ~ ~ _The                                         *.;;,,,.,,, edi+' /me
emtemewpeuee --                                                                  //t
bo                            /                        lb ~IKo..                                       D     A
as~~ me                   _ _              /            s 
1~~                           TEA ESTATE" **>                                        * -1,0
*****~~~~  <(~ ~ ...e...
'i. O. \........ -
TANZANIA                    Iegn                 ~       \.                 /       @Mrl  
SMALLHOLDER TEA
CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Lupembe Area                                                                                        lugu
ROADS REQUIRED FOR GREENLEAF COLECTION
-l                                   ~                                                           /  \                     94All Woothe@
*....... In,p,owed lUnde. The F,st PNopte
-        trO e lTbnpsosedU    The NaPiod\
-        0thS., Roadt ROW,
. ........ --otpts
Existing Smalllolder Foctory
Psoe L      o Plrmed SwofhoWde Facoory
PLANTING AND CONSOLIDATION PROGRAM
Pntig and lnfiling Prouos Limits
IKINDA  Schem  N-n.
APft 1990



MRD 1407R
Mbal   _            uwbix
i BeSA t            >
'r ORESr RESFRW v  p
/~~~~
M13             MO~~SAA Ii                     FOREST
/sm  Co\  <      FORESr RESERVE                 I  RESERE 
Soni
so   0    MPONDE -BUMBULI  Ru ui3^u                                
S,       '1  /.*.    IKr~  a
MPONDEA  A
S EV                 \           FOREST RES
F O R E S T                              L AA II  E SASA UT
FOREST \   EE,  i*   l  fOREST RESERVE
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA
CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
LUSHOTO AREA
8ungu                                       fRESERVE   t
4 91  *?                    mKwmtefm                     ROADS REOIARED FOR GREENIEAF COLLECTION
.lis  npr*.ed Und. lsTh Ffie Projct
-  -tt,\ CiTo Be Ceb B td Undw The Project
-..¢-.Ir Rtivers
SO~tAL                   S     Emat Iholle, F."Jory
Jt"VA L              5tv)                                                     CONSOLIDATION PROGRAM
W illing Program L.mrs
;   tAtsw4ss  X                   t   g    _,    MPONDE SchdstNO-
TANZANIA    (diai         ft", ft2
/te   ptEett    -0--                                                     MILES
0      2       4      6              10L
!            .M                ,_IA(                                                       KI LOMETERS
ARU1 1990



