Document of
The World Bank   FILE Copyv
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2814-TA
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 9, 1980
Eastern Africa Region
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Units                 =   Tanzania Shillings (TSh)
US$0.12                       =   TSh 1.00
US$1.00                       =   TSh 8.30
US$1,000                      =   TSh 8,300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                            British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                  =   3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)               =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2     =   0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )    =   0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)              =   2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter                      =   0.26 US gallon (gal)
=   0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton (ton)           =   2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
MDB     -   Marketing Deveopment Bureau
MOA     -   Ministry of Agriculture
NBC     -   National Bank of Commerce
PMO     -   Prime Ministers Office
PPMB    -   Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau of MOA
RMEA    -   Regional Mission in East Africa
SCOPO   -   Standing Committee on Parastatal Organization
TDM     -   Tea Development Manager
TRDB    -   Tanzania Rural Development Bank
TTA     -   Tanzania Tea Authority
TTSDO   -   Tanzania Tea Sales and Distribution Organization
FISCAL YEAR
Government           -   July 1 - June 30
TTA                  -   July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ..............................................            1
A.  Project Background . .........................                  1
P.  The Agricultural Sector ............ .       .................  1
Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy .........           2
Agricultural Services . ............... ... ........  * * .     3
Agricultural Marketing and Pricing ...............     ...      5
Previous Bank Group Assistance ............... .......          5
TEA SUB-SECTOR ..... ........................................       6
A.  Background ........................... *.. ... ..... .o.,       6
B. Processing .. ...-....... . .....   7
C.  The Tanzania Tea Authority ...o .... o........                  8
D.  The First Tea Project  ..........        *...*...*              9
E.  Tanzania Tea Markets and Prices .......         ............    11
lII.  THE PROJECT ........           ..........               ,            12
A. General Description                . . . .......... .           12
B.  Detailed Features         .... . .   . ....      . o...* .... .    13
C.  Project Costs .....  ........              ...   .... ...    18
D.  Financing oo..o   .. .............. .. . ,....                 19
E.  Procurement ... . ......................                       20
F.  Disbursement       .     . . .......... . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .  .  21
C.  Accounts and Audits ........ . . . . . . .  ......... ...o... .. .  22
H.  Environmental Benefits .... ............       ...............    23
IV.   ORGANIZATIONAL AND MANAGEMENT ..... o....................    23
A.  Headquarters .... .............- -............. .  .. .        23
B.  Branches and Factories  .oo  .................    24
This report is based on the findings of a IBRD appraisal mission which
visited Tanzania in July 1978, composed of W. Stolber, A. Sidhu, G. Onaba
(IBRD), J. Ridler and D. Smith (Consultants) and a subsequent post-appraisal
mission which visited Tanzania in September/October 1979, composed of
J. Wijnand, A. Klempin, A. Sidhu, B. Bannan and A. Wilson (IDA).
Thia documcnt hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Con't)
Page No.
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT (continued)
C.  Fuelwood Plantations        ......      **...................    25
D.  Roads ................................................    25
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation ...........................    25
V.   TEA PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING ...........................    26
A.  Production - Technical Features           ...................    26
B.  Production - Famers' Benefits ......................   26
C.  Production - Estimates ..... ................... ... ....... * ...    29
D.  Processing - Modifications ..........................    30
E.  Processing - Benefits .. ...................... ... ...    30
VI.   MARKETS AND PRICES ......................... .. ...........    30
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................    32
A.  Financial Analysis ...............  ....................    32
B.  Economic Analysis ...................................   35
VIII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............    39
SUPPORTING CHARTS, TABLES AND MAPS
Chart C-1    Implementation Schedule
Chart C-2    Organizational Chart
Table T-1    Phasing of Project Costs
T-la   Factory Development:  Project Costs by Factory
T-lb   Transport - Vehicle List and Cost by Factory and
Headquarter
T-lc   Fuelwood Plantations - Area and Cost by Factory
T-ld   Planting Program - Area, Requirements and Cost by Factory
Region
T-le   Roads - Equipment, Consultancy and Construction Cost by
Factory Region
T-lf   Staff - List of Factory Staff of the Two New Factories
(Mwakaleli and Ukalawa) and Annual Cost
T-lg   Staff - List of Incremental General STaff of Two New Factories
Regions (Rungwe and Njombe) and Annual Cost
T-lh   Staff - List of Incremental TTA Headquarter Staff and Annual
Cost



- iii -
Table of Contents (Con't)
Table T-2    TTA Consolidated Income Statement (,Without Project)
T-3    TTA Consolidated Income Statement (With Project)
T-3a   Katumba Income Statement (With Project)
T-3b   Mwakaleli Income Statement (With Project)
T-3c   Lupembe Income Statement (With Project)
T-3d   Ukalawa Income Statement (With Project)
T-3e   Mponde Income Statement (With Project)
T-3f   Bukoba Income Statement (With Project)
T-4    Projected TTA 'With Project' Cash Flow
T-5    Government Cash Flow Projection
T-6    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
T-7    Foreign Exchange Impact of Project
T-8    TTA Comparative Balance Sheets
T-9    Assumed yield from year of Planting
T-10   Returns to Farmers in Njombe Area
T-11   Illustrative Farm Budget (NJombe)
T-12   Hectare Budgets for Tea and Maize
T-13   Illustrative Farm Labor Profiles (Njombe)
T-14   Derivation of Financial and Economic Prices of Made Tea
T-15   Breakdown of Financial Selling Costs
T-16   Financial Rate of Return on TTA Investments
T-17   Economic Rate of Return
T-18   Table of Contents of Volume II
MAP S
TANZANIA - IBRD 14083 Location
TANZANIA - IBRD 14084 Rungwe Area
TANZANIA - IBRD 14085 Bukoba Area
TANZANIA - IBRD 14086R Lupembe Area
TANZANIA - IBRD 14087 Lushoto Area






TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      In June 1978, the Government of Tanzania requested that the
Bank consider financing a second phase of the Smallholder Tea Project
(Cr. 287-TA) 1/ proposals for which had been prepared by the Ministry of
Agriculture in March 1977 and reviewed by the Bank's Regional Mission in
East Africa (RMEA) in April 1978. The proposals were appro{sed by a Bank
mission, which visited Tanzania in July 1978, composed of Messrs W. Stolber,
A. Sidhu, G. Onaba (IBRD), J. Ridler and D. Smith (Consultants). Subsequent
analysis showed that the deteriorating financial position of the Tanzania
Tea Authority (TTA) would continue "with" the project. A prolonged dialogue
with Government to seek ways and means to correct this trend led to a post-
appraisal mission visiting Tanzania in September/October 1979 to further
explore how the TTA could be strengthened to become a financially self-sus-
taining organization. This report is based on the findings of the Bank's
post-appraisal mission composed of Messrs. J. Wijnand, A. Klempin, A. Sidhu,
W. Bannan and A. Wilson (IDA) and it emphasizes the need to (a) provide
additional processing facilities to cater for the increasing green leaf
production from existing tea plantings, (b) improve the quality of manufac-
tured tea by improving processing standards and facilities, (c) consolidate
the present smallholder tea plantings to ensure optimum utilization of
factory capacities, (d) further expand and improve existing infrastructural
support services and (e) effect changes in TTA's management structure which
would assist in making TTA a viable tea organization.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Tanzania's population (about 17 million in 1979) is increasing
at a rate of about 3% per annum. Per capita GNP for 1978 is estimated at
US$230. Real growth of GDP averaged about 5% per annum over the period
1976-78. Roughly, 50% of GDP is derived from agriculture and related activi-
ties, about half of this contribution coming from subsistence production.
More than 90% of the population is engaged in agriculture. About 70% of
Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings from merchandise exports are accounted
for by unprocessed agricultural commodities, and a further 7% by processed
farm products. The major export commodities are coffee, cotton, cashewnuts,
tea, and tobacco.
1/   For details of Cr. 287-TA see Chapter II-D.



- 2 -
1.03       Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small number of private
estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, wheat, rice and live-
stock. The largely traditionally managed livestock herd, estimated at 10
million head, is grazed extensively over the 40% of the country free from
tsetse fly.
1.04       The recent performance of the agricultural sector has been sluggish.
Over the period 1967-77, the average annual rate of growth of agricultural
production was about 2.7%. From the late 1960's onward food production has
failed to keep pace with population growth and as a result, Tanzania has
become increasingly dependent on rice and wheat imports. The effects of this
slow growth were exacerbated in 1973 and 1974 by poor harvests as a result of
a severe drought which necessitated large importations of food grains. Since
1975, however, overall agricultural production has recovered, increasing in
real terms of an average annual rate of 7%. At the same time there has been
a shift from cash crops toward food crop production. Despite food crop
production increases, rising demands for food crops has resulted in Tanzania
continuing to depend on imports of rice and wheat.
C. Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy
1.05      The Government has undertaken a program to support the development
of the agricultural sector, in conjunction with efforts to achieve balanced
regional growth and more equitable income distribution. Within these objec-
tives, the Government is paying particular attention to achieving self-suffi-
ciency in food production and to supporting export crops. Greater emphasis
is now being placed on the production rather than the social aspects of rural
development projects. In 1972, Government administration was decentralized
to the regional and district levels in order to plan development programs
more closely related to the needs of the new villages. Since Independence,
but particularly since 1970, the Government, in order to facilitate the
provision of infrastructure and services to the rural population, and to
encourage self reliance and a community approach to rural development, adopted
a strategy whose key element has been the grouping of dispersed farm families
into villages.
1.06      There are at present about 7,700 registered villages, allocated
for administrative purposes into 1,828 rural wards, containing over three-
quarters of Tanzania's rural population. The village is intended to be the
country's primary social, economic and political unit. Basic social services,
including health facilities, schools and water supply systems, are to be
provided. Economic services, including provision of credit, supply of inputs,
organization of extension services and marketing of produce, are to be coor-
dinated at the village level. Economic infrastructure, such as storage
godowns, processing equipment and small-scale industries, are to be vilage-
owned investments.



- 3 -
D. Agricultural Services
Research
1.07      Agricultural research in Tanzania is undertaken by a number of
government agencies but the Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo) is responsible
for overall guidance of the national research effort, and operates a network
of crop and livestock research stations. Tanzania's research system, which
has deteriorated over the years, has several weaknesses. Kilimo has not been
able to exercise effective control and, as a result, priorities have not
always been firmly established, the regional emphasis has been unclear, and
research resources have not been allocated in accordance with development
priorities.  There is a need for sharper focus on improving knowledge on
Tanzania's agro-economic zones, and on improving the farming systems in these
zones through a greater emphasis on field testing. The links between research
and extension are weak because of poor coordination between the Regions, who
are responsible for extension, and Kilimo who is in charge of research and
training.
1.08      The Tanzania research system already receives support under the
Tabora Rural Development Project (Cr. 703-TA) and the Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural
Development Project (Cr. 803-TA). The proposed IDA funded Agricultural
Research Project would strengthen the National Research System and provide
effective links with the agricultural extension services. Tanzania is also
increasing its links with various international agricultural research insti-
tutes under the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
(CGIAR).
Extension
1.09      Responsibility for agricultural extension in Tanzania is divided
between Kilimo (which trains extension staff), the twenty regional adminis-
trations (which are responsible for the day-to-day management of about half
of the country's extension staff) and some crop parastatals (which employ the
remaining extension staff). In early 1978, a total of 100 graduates, 3,000
field officers with formal diploma or certificate-level training, and 3,500
field assistances with little formal training, were involved in extension
work. Extension efforts have been relatively ineffective. As a result of
the weak research base, relatively few proven technical packages are avail-
able. Many field staff are inadequately trained and supervised, and receive
limited logistical support. The situation was made worse in 1978 by the
decision of Government to appoint salaried Village Managers to each registered
village. Many of the better trained extension staff were transferred to
become Village Managers. The relationship between Village Managers, extension
agents and Village Management Technicians 1/ remains unclear, and Kilimo and
1/   For a description of the Village Management Technician Program, see the
staff Appraisal Report for the Fifth Education Project (Cr. 607-TA).



- 4 -
the Prime Minister's Off'ce (which has overall responsibility for regional
administration) hold differing views on how estension should be organized
in the future. IDA has made proposals to Government on the reorganization
of the extension service, using the principles of the 'training and visit'
system adapted to Tanzania conditions, and are being the extension services
in Mwanza and Shinyanga regions are being reorganized along these lines
as part of the IDA-supported Rural Development Project for these regions
(Cr. 803-TA). Kilimo is currently drawing up a comprehensive plan for the
overall development of agricultural extension. Progress on the improvement
of extension services has continued to be slow.
Credit
1.10      The major agencies involved in the provision of credit to the
agricultural sector are the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) and the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank (TRDB). NBC is the main source of short-term credit
to parastatals for produce marketing, and in addition provides about two-
thirds of the total production credit, mainly to large estates. TRDB provides
long, medium and short-term agricultural credit, administers special funds on
behalf of Government, and has been supported by the Bank Group as the major
credit channel for funds disbursed for direct use by farmers. A project to
strengthen TRDB has been approved by IDA.
Rural Transport Services
1.11      An adequate road transport system is needed to ensure the efficient
movement of crops to market centers and railheads, and to support timely
delivery of agricultural inputs to the farmers. Despite Government's efforts
to upgrade the road network, only about 10 percent of the 33,400 km of roads
provide reliable, all weather service. The remainder, particularly rural
roads, are, in general, little more than earth tracks impassable in the rainy
seasons. In addition, the trucking fleet available for use by parastatals
(either through ownership or hire) has been limited, thus making crop movement
even more difficult. Crop marketing has suffered from high transport costs,
and decerioration of crops in villages with adequate storage facilities.
Poor transport facilities cause delays in payment to villages and often
dictate that villages receive sums large enough to handle crops over extended
periods, leading to inadequate supervision and accounting of funds advanced
for purchases. Current Government action to address these problems is
directed mainly at the public sector, and includes the provision of staff
training and equipment under several IDA-assisted projects, and the recent
creation of betterment and maintenance units, which are upgrading selected
secondary roads in several regions. Assistance to the public trucking indus-
try is being provided through the IDA-supported Trucking Industry Rehabilita-
tion and Improvement Project (Cr. 743-TA). This has not proved sufficient to
overcome transport bottlenecks in the critical areas of crop procurement and
the Government, under IDA assisted projects, has provided parastatals with
additional transport facilities.



E. Agricultural Marketing and Pricing
Marketing
1.12      In May 1976, the Primary Cooperative Societies and Unions, which
previously played an important role in agricultural marketing, were dissolved
and these functions transferred to other district, regional and national
organizations, of which the most prominent are the various parastatal bodies.
At present, there are separate parastatal organizations for coffee, tea,
sugar, livestock and dairy products, foodgrains, cashewnuts, tobacco, cotton,
sisal and pyrethrum. In addition to providing marketing and processing
services, most parastatals have development responsibilities as well as
their generally ambitious expectations have placed severe strains on manpower
resources. Parastatal marketing is normally characterized by lack of com-
petition, high cost, poor services and slow payments to farmers. The Govern-
ment is aware of these problems. Its Standing Committee on Parastatal Organ-
ization (SCOPO) is reviewing the structure and managerial performance of
parastatals. There have been transfers of staff from over-manned parastatals.
The Bank group is assisting in the reviews through its analysis of parastatals
involved in recent and proposed IDA credits; i.e. the Tea Authority, the
Cashew Authority, the Tobacco Authority, the Pyrethrum Board (proposed to be
renamed the Pyrethrum Authority in future) and the National Milling Corpora-
tion. It also intends to start a broader review of Tanzania's agricultural
parastatals as a principal focus of its sector work in FY80 and FY81.
Pricing
1.13      The control of producer, wholesale and retail prices of major crops
is an important tool of the Government's development policy. Producer prices
of all principal export crops except sisal and coffee, are controlled as are
major food crops except vegetables, fruits, fish and eggs. MOA is responsible
for formulating pricing recommendations. Its Marketing Development Bureau
(which receives assistance from UNDP and IDA) carries out annual reviews of
producer prices for major crops, taking into account production costs and the
need for incentives to producers. MOA's recommendations are reviewed by the
Agricultural Products Price Coordinating Committee, which consists of repre-
sentatives from the major ministries and parastatals and then by the Economic
Committee of the Cabinet, which makes the final decision on prices.
F. Previous Bank Group Assistance
1.14      Previous Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector in
Tanzania has included IDA credits totalling US$165.2 million and IBRD loans
for US$37 million for seventeen agricultural and three rural development proj-
ects. Agricultural projects include one each for tea (para. 2.12), sugar,
pyrethrum, maize, fisheries, forestry, and cotton, three each for livestock and
tobacco, and two for cashewnuts and agricultural credit. Rural Development
Projects have been financed by IDA in the Kigoma and Tabora regions, and lately



in Mwanza/Shinyanga region. Project Performance Audit Reports for two pro-
jects (the Flue-Cured Tobacco Project and the Smallholder Tea Development
Project) have recently been prepared. In both cases, the economic rate of
return is satisfactory. However, implementation experience highlighted the
weaknesses of the parastatals involved and the consequent need for consider-
able investment in institution-building. In particular, balanced development
of processing capacity and crop production has been a problem. Processing
capacity has tended to outrun crop production in the Tobacco Project. In the
case of the Tea Project, however, the reverse has been true. 1/ These lessons
have been taken into account in the design of the Project.
II. TEA SUB-SECTOR
B. Background
2.01      The main tea growing districts of Tanzania are Rungwe, Njombe
and Mufindi in the southern highlands, Lushoto, Amani, and Korogwe, in the
north-east and Bukoba on Lake Victoria in the north-west. The oldest tea
plantings dating from World War I are in the Rungwe and Njombe/Mufindi
districts while those in Bukoba are of more recent origin.
2.02      Tea is grown by private estates (8,240 ha), TTA estates (1,245 ha),
cooperative and mission estates (540 ha) and smallholders (8,675 ha) giving
a total of 18,700 ha. Green leaf produced by private estates is processed
mainly in private factories. However, some small private estates, e.g.
missions, deliver their production to TTA factories. TTA has established
two new estates in Bukoba and Lupembe which also supply TTA factories. In
addition TTA has also acquired Bukoba estate and more recently Bulwa estate
in Amani. All smallholder green leaf production is processed by TTA's four
factories except that from Korogwe in the Usambaras which, because of dis-
tance from the TTA factory, is processed in private factories.
2.03      Private estates which cover a planted area of 8,240 ha produced
12,000 M tons (approximately) of made tea in 1978/79 corresponding to a
yield of 1,400 kg/ha. Smallholders, TTA estates and the small cooperative
and mission estates, together produced 4,780 M tons of tea giving an average
yield of 490 kg/ha. In 1978/79, however, only 1,700 ha or 20% of smallholder
tea was over ten years old and, therefore, mature. It is expected that
smallholder production will increase in the coming years as more of their
plantings mature (para. 5.16).
1/   Details of experience gained from Smallholder Tea Development Project
are given in Chapter II-D.



2.04      Smallholder tea, although grown as a monocrop, unlike coffee which
is frequently grown in conjunction with bananas, is one of the major cash
crops that a farmer grows as part of his cropping system. The standard of
husbandry generally, is not comparable to estate standards but there are
individual grc zrs who practice a high level of husbandry. The overall
average tea holding size is estimated to be 0.30 ha but the size ranges from
an average of 0.1 ha in Bukoba to 0.4 ha in Rungwe and Njombe.
B. Processing
2.05      The conversion of green leaf to black tea is today usually referred
to as "processing". There are six main elements in the processing cycle:
withering, rolling, fermenting, drying, sorting and packing. When green leaf
is plucked from the bush it contains about 77-1/2% moisture and 22-1/2% solid
matter.
2.06      The object of "withering" is to remove the surface and some of the
internal moisture from the leaves and transform them to a flaccid and pliant
state to obviate disintegrating the leaves during rolling. The degree of
"wither" varies according to the type of processing and during withering the
green leaf weight is reduced to between 55% and 70% of its original weight.
The harder witers (55% range) are usual in Sri Lanka, Indonesia and certain
parts of India and Assam where "orthodox" rolling is carried out while in
most East African countries softer withers (70% range) are used which suit
the rolling function known as "rotorvane/CTC". During rolling the leaf cells
are ruptured to express the juices. This in turn enables fermentation of the
tannin to occur and to reduce the leaves to particles of a shape and size
which, when dried, are acceptable to the tea blending trade. "Fermentation"
of the juices has to be carefully controlled as it influences the flavor,
strength, body and color of the liquors and also the color of the infusions.
The object of drying is the extraction of the balance moisture from the
leaves whereby fermentation is checked and the fermented juices are fixed
to the leaf particles. To suit the requirements of the various buyers and
blenders the leaf particles are sorted for size and shape, foreign matter
such as fluff and fibre are removed and the finished and graded teas are
packed in sealed chests for export. It is essential that factories are
equipped with adequate machinery to ensure that each element of processing is
in balance.
2.07      To produce teas which command good prices attention to detail
at every stage of the process from plucking and transporting the green leaves
to the factories right through to packing the finished product is essential.
Plucking and transporting is more difficult to control with smallholder
production than with estate production for a variety of reasons; distances
involved, communications, road conditions, the different approach required
to ensure consistent action by farmers as opposed to estate labor. Despite
this it has been proven that very high standards of plucking and leaf delivery
can be achieved among smallholders.



-8-
C. The Tanzania Tea Authority
2.08      TTA was established by the Tea Ordinance Cap. 291 as amended
by the Tea Ordinance (Amendment) Act, 1968, as a parastatal corporate body
to be responsible for all aspects of smallholder tea development as well as
for the functions previously exercised by the Tea Board of Tanzania. Under
the guideance of the Minister of Agriculture, who appoints its Board members,
TTA is empowered to: promote, supervise and implement programs for the
development of the tea industry, including the supervision of planting, cul-
tivation and harvesting of tea; inspect plantations and green leaf; negotiate
agreements for leaf processing; organize the purchase and transportation of
green leaf; participate in the establishment, control and management of tea
factories; control tea marketing and act as a national marketing agent; and
advise and make recommendations to the Minister on the development of the tea
industry.
2.09      TTA has its headquarters in Dar-es-Salaam and four field branches
which are identified and based on the four tea factories located in Rungwe
(Katumba), Njombe (Lupembe), Bukoba (Bukoba) and Lushoto (Mponde). 1/ The
headquarters organization at present is based on two operational departments -
production and marketing; and two service departments - administration and
finance/planning. Each of the departments is headed by a manager who is
directly responsible to the General Manager. Each of the field branches is
headed by a Tea Development Manager (TDM) who has overall responsibility for
both factory and field production aspects of tea. The TDM is assisted by a
staff of officers at various levels who run the administrative, extension and
factory units.
2.10      TTA has been responsible for all extension services for tea.  The
extension staff were mainly seconded officers from the Ministry of Agriculture
but working under the direct control of TTA for operational purposes. Under
a recent Government ruling, however, responsibility for extension services
will revert back to the Ministry but TTA has decided to retain a Senior Tea
Extension Officer at each of its branches who will act as a coordinator with
Ministry's tea extension staff.
2.11      Tanzania was a member of the Tea Research Institute of East Africa
until mid-1978 when it decided to withdraw from the Institute. Under the
Institute's research program recommendations for tea husbandry practices were
based on information cbtained from trials carried out in Tanzania as well as
the other East African countries. The recommendations, with general adapta-
tion in Tanzania, have given satisfactory results. There is need, however,
to develop specific recommendations, for the different ecological conditions
in the tea growing areas within Tanzania. The Ministry of Agriculture has now
assumed complete respcnsibility for all research and tea research will there-
fore form part of their total research program which is being reorganized
and strengthened under a proposed Agricultural Research Services Project.
1/   Names in parenthesis indicate factory locations.



- 9 -
D. The First Tea Project
2.12      The Smallholder Tea Development Project (Cr. 287-TA) was part of
the overall Government strategy to bring about a rapid expansion in production
of selected cash crops by smallholders. The Project became effective in July
1972 and is scheduled to close in December 1980 after completion of the new
factory in Rungwe (Mwakaleli). 1/
2.13      The Project, as appraised, was to include expansion of the existing
smallholder tea area of 3,272 ha by 8,300 ha and involving 14,000 smallholders
in the four districts of Rungwe, Njombe, Bukoba and Lushoto; construction of
two new factories and expansion of three existing factories; extension and
leaf collection services; credit facilities for farmers to purchase planting
material and fertilizers; construction of about 300 km of all-weather roads;
and provision of technical assistance to strengthen TTA. Total Project costs
were estimated at US$16.5 million of which IDA financed US$10.8 million,
Norway - US$2.0 million (for part of the road program) and the Government
US$3.7 million.
2.14      The Project was partly successful in meeting the physical targets
set at appraisal. The roads were completed and the factories constructed and
expanded although with considerable delay. Factory construction was delayed
because of a shortfall in the planting program and hence in the estimated
green leaf production (para. 2.15). Only 5,711 ha out of the projected 8,300
ha, i.e. 69% were planted during Phase I. The area planted includes 308 ha
which TTA itself established on an estate basis. The ove-al] response in
terms of farmers participation however, was well above projections (16,000 as
compared to 14,000) but the average tea holding size achieved was only about
half, i.e. 0.3 ha, of that envisaged. The smallholder response in terms of
numbers participating and area planted varied from district to district
reflecting the agricultural and socio-economic differences of the districts.
2.15      Due to a shortfall not only in the total planted area but also in
yield per unit of land, the production of made tea over the period 1972/73 -
1977/78 was only about 40% of appraisal estimate. These changes in produc-
tion, as compared to original estimates, introduced an element of uncertainty
in the factory program which in turn resulted in inequalities in capacities of
the various factory processes with a common constraint in all factories being
the limited withering capacity.
2.16      The purely administrative aspects of the factories are generally
satisfactory but the technical management of the factories poses serious
problems due to lack of experienced technical staff. The Tea Development
Managers are mostly field men and lack factory experience. There have been no
factory engineers over the years and there is a serious shortage of skilled
mechanics. Shortage of spare parts has also plagued the factories. The lack
1/   Name in parenthesis indicates factory location.



- 10 -
of technical management expertise and supervision together with the growing
problem of factory imbalances and under-capacity, has led to TTA tea prices in
international markets being lower than their potential. The imbalances in the
various factory processes need to be rectified as well as additional factory
capacity provided for processing the increasing production of green leaf as
the tea plantings mature.
2.17       In the initial years of the Project, TTA's management was weak.
Staff were inexperienced and there was a lack of coordination and supervision
of branches from headquarters; overstaffing was particularly serious in
extension services; there was lack of factory supervision; there was poor
supervision and maintenance of green leaf collection vehicles. The capability
and performance of TTA has gradually improved as local staff have accumulated
experienced and expertise. Expatriate staff have played an important role in
bringing about this improvement. There is need, however, to strengthen still
further TTA's management capabilities, particularly in factory management and
processing. The level of management at the branch levels needs to be raised
by providing for staff of a higher calibre and training.
2.18       Until recently, TTA's major sources of funds have been (i) sales of
tea planting material, (ii) cess on all made tea manufactured in Tanzania, 1/
(iii) minor income from rents, dividends, etc., (iv) loans from Government and
TRDB, and (v) Government grants. Sales of planting material provided a subs-
tantial revenue during the start-up phase of the Project but has declined in
importance as plantings were completed. Government grants accounted for 65.7%
of TTA's total income ,ver the period 1972-77.
2.19       In 1977, the Katumba, Lupembe, Bukoba and Mponde Tea Factory Com-
panies were dissolved and their assets and liabilities transferred to TTA.
The factories are now operating as TTA branches under TTA management. As all
factories have consistently made losses, TTA has not received any income from
their operations. While TTA had a retained income of TSh 9.6 million at June
30, 1977, of which TSh 5.7 million was in net current assets, TTA's cash
position has in the meantime deteriorated to an overdraft of TSh 16 million.
Tanzania's decision in 1977, not to make use of the auction facilities at
Mombasa, aggravated TTA's liquidity problems since sales of TTA teas on the
London auction take about three to four months longer than at Mombasa. In
FY77/78, TTA made a loss of TSh 7.7 million. The main cause for the loss
were the poor operating results of the factories which generated a combined
operating profit of TSh 1.2 million only, while TTA's overhead costs amounted
to TSh 18.3 million. The three major overhead cost items were administrative
expenses, extension services, and interest on loans. While possibilities of
savings in administrative and interest expenses are rather limited, the
transfer of extension service costs (TSh 5.0 million) to MOA will reduce
overheads considerably.  But the relevant avenue for improving TTA's finan-
cial position in the future is to increase the operating profit from its
factories.
1/   2.5% on made tea f.o.b. price on all tea manufactured by private estates
(excluding TTA factories) in Tanzania.



- 11 -
2.20      There are serious limitations to carrying out a meaningful finan-
cial analysis of TTA's consolidated accounts. The real value of the assets
of the former factory companies taken over by TTA in 1977 (para. 2.19) have
not yet been fully ascertained and are based only on the book value at date of
take-over. TTA is presently revaluing all assets and during negotiations
advised that its audited accounts for 1979 would be available by December 31,
1980.
E. Tanzania Tea Markets and Prices
2.21      Total Tanzania tea production in 1977 was 16,730 tons or 0.9% of
world output. Twelve thousand (12,000) tons were exported, and earned an
equivalent of TSh 177.8 million in foreign currency, which accounted for 4%
of total export earnings. The major country of destination was the UK, with
a share of 78.9%, followed by the Netherlands, Canada, and Pakistan. Total
Tanzania tea production for 1985 is estimated at 25,000 tons, which would
account for 1% of projected world production of made tea.
2.22      Since Britain is the world's largest tea importer/exporter, the
London auction provides the leading price indicator in the world market. In
all years from 1974 to 1977 the annual average London auction price for
Tanzania tea was above the all tea average. It was only between 0.4% (in
1976) and 7% (in 1974 and 1977) lower than the Kenya tea which realized the
highest annual average price of all tea producing countries. As compared to
all African countries, Tanzania tea ranked second to fourth among eleven
countries. During 1978 and 1979 the position of Tanzania tea has slightly
deteriorated, and its annual average price fell almost 1% below the all tea
average and 10% below the Kenya price. Although it is difficult to isolate
causes, it is obvious that the extremely poor sales performance of individual
factories, such as Bukoba, which realized an average price 20% below all
London average, contributed strongly to the overall decline.
2.23      TTA's tea production at the project tea factories was 4,000 tons in
1977, which is 24% of the national production. TTA's tea was sold through
four different channels: London auctions (51%), Mombasa auctions (9%), direct
sales (11%), and local pool sales (29%). Mombasa sales were smaller in 1977
than in previous years, when they ranged between 25% and 40%, because the
border to Kenya was closed in mid 1977. Since then TTA had to reschedule its
sales by increasing London auction and direct sales. During the 1978/79
season 53% of TTA's tea was sold at the London auctions, 25% were direct
sales, and the remaining 22% were supplied to the local pool. As all tea
planted under the first phase Project matures, smallholder production will
increase to 8,000 tons by 1985, which would account for 35% of the projected
national tea production.
2.24      In competition with tea supplies from as many as ten private estates
in Tanzania a TTA factory realized the highest price on 30 of 46 weekly London



- 12 -
auctions in 1977; on 14 auctions a TTA factory ranked second. However, due to
a mixed performance of all four TTA factories (para. 2.22) the annual average
price of TTA tea was about 3% below the average private estate price. At the
Mombasa auctions, Tanzania tea did not sell comparatively as well as in
London. First, the best teas are shipped to the London market where quality
is fully recognized while the Mombasa auctions sell more tea of intermediate
quality, catering to the needs of countries not buying at the London auctions
(Middle East and Persian Gulf countries, for example); prices are, therefore,
generally not as high as in London. Second, Tanzania tea on the Mombasa
auctions from 1974 and 1977 sold at annual average prices between 9% (1975)
and 32% (1977) lower than Kenya tea, a considerably larger price differential
between these two countries than on the London auctions. Also in TTA's direct
sales, since the closure of the Tanzania-Kenya border, much lower prices than
from London sales have continued to be realized. In the 1978/79 season, the
Dar-es-Salaam f.o.b. price for direct sales of TTA's two best factories,
Katumba and Lupembe, was 18% below the Dar-es-Salaam f.o.b. price for London
sales from these two factories. The price for the local pool sales is fixed
by the GOT and the retail price by the National Pricing Commission in consul-
tation with the Tanzania Tea Blenders (para 6.05). At TSh 10/kg in 1978/79 it
was about TSh 2.20 below the export parity price of Tanzania tea.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would, over a five-year period (1980-84), concentrate
on consolidating ongoing TTA operations and have the primary objective of
providing additional processing facilities to cater for the expected green
leaf production from all smallholder tea plantings including those established
under the first phase project (IDA Credit 287-TA). The Project activities
would aim to (i) strengthen TTA's capacity to handle the increasing amount of
green leaf produced; (ii) maximize the production benefits of smallholders in
those areas where there are no equally rewarding farming activities available;
(iii) put TTA in a financially viable position during the Project period; and
(iv) increase Government's export earnings from the tea industry. Contrary
to the first phase Project with its major emphasis on tea planting, this
Project would finance only a marginal tea planting program of about 200 ha
of new plantings to ensure full utilization of the factories. The Project
would comprise of the following components:
(a) The construction of one new factory at Ukalawa; the completion
of the Mwakelili factory as a four dryer factory; extending
and re-equipping the existing factories at Kabumba, Lupembe,
Bukoba and Mponde 1/ (US$6.3 million);
1/   Location of factories is as follows:  Katumba, Mwakeleli-Rungwe district;
Lupembe, Ukalawa-Njombe district; Bukoba-Bukoba district; Mponde-Lushoto
district (see Maps).



- 13 -
(b)  Provision of additional green leaf collection vehicles;
spare parts to put repairable vehicles in working order;
transport facilities for both the factories and TrA
Headquarters (US$2.8 million);
(c)  The establishment of fuelwood plantations to substitute
wood for oil to operate the factories (US$0.5 million);
(d)  A tea planting program of an additional 200 ha in Njombe
and a total of 630 ha infilling 1/ in three of the four
tea areas, provision of credit to project growers for
the purchase of planting material and fertilizers
(US$1.2 million);
(e)  Purchase of two warehouses in Dar-es-Salaam (US$0.3
million);
(f)  Construction and maintenance of 176 km of tea roads
(US$2.9 million);
(g)  Continued financing of foreign experts already employed
under the first phase; additional technical assistance
and staff to strengthen engineering and management aspects
of factories (US$1.5 million).
3.02      Investment costs in support of TTA's processing capacity would total
73% of Project costs, road construction costs would total 19% and 8% would be
designated for production support. TTA would be responsible for the implemen-
tation of all Project components except road construction and maintenance,
which would be implemented by the Regions. TRDB would provide credit to
farmers for purchase of planting material and fertilizers through existing
village accounts.
B. Detailed Features
Factory Construction and Rehabilitation
3.03       In order to process the increasing production of tea green leaf and
to rectify the present factory shortcomings, the following specific measures
are proposed:
3.04      Katumba:  Withering area would be extended.  A new ballbreaker,
fermenting trolleys, improvement of the steam installation, steam connections
for the fourth drier, and electrical transformer and machinery spares would
1/   Filling of gaps in existing planted areas.



- 14 -
also be provided. 1/ In years 1 and 2 of the Project a new coal-fired boiler,
a monorail conveyor system, additional rolling room equipment and workshop
facilities would be provided. TTA has already started to convert the Katumba
factory from oil to coal firing though it is still uncertain whether the
coal supply from Ilima colliery would be sufficient to meet the total require-
ments of the Katumba and Mwakaleli tea factories as well as the Mbeya Cement
Plant and other factories. The disbursement of funds for the coal-fired
boiler for the Katumba factory is contingent upon the Government having made
arrangements satisfactory to the Association to ensure the allocation of
sufficient quantities of coal to the factory.
3.05      Mwakaleli.  This factory was constructed and only partially equipped
under Phase I due to delays and cost over-runs. Additional withering troughs,
rolling room equipment, sorting and packaging room equipment and factory
tools would be installed. 1/ The remaining machinery including two driers to
complete the factory to a four dryer factory would be installed during years
1, 2 and 3 of the Project. It is a condition of disbursement against the
funds for the driers that Government ensures the allocation of sufficient
quantities of coal to Mwakeleli.
3.06      Lupembe.  Because of site and existing building design limitations,
expansion would be limited to the construction of a mezzanine floor in the
withering section. 1/ Additional withering troughs, fermenting equipment,
dryer conveyors, sorting room machinery and workshop equipment would be
installed. The sorting room machinery would be rearranged to improve the flow
of made tea and relievE the packing room congestion. Work would be carried
out in years 1 and 2 oi the Project leaving only a part of the withering
section roof to be replaced in year 3.
3.07      Ukalawa.  The existing Lupembe factory would be able to process
about 5.4 million kg green leaf but production from existing tea areas is
expected to reach 8.6 million kg green leaf by 1984/85. A new factory would,
therefore, be constructed at Ukalawa to process the excess leaf. This new
factory would be constructed during years 1 and 2 of the Project and equipped
as a two dryer factory. Space would be available for the installation of a
third dryer if this is found necessary at a later date.
3.08      Bukoba.  This factory would be improved by installing additional
withering troughs and rolling room equipment. The remaining factory improve-
ments comprising of additional withering throughs and fans, building extension
and spares would be phased over years 1, 2 and 3.
1/   Due to urgent need, part of the requirements, using IDA guidelines, have
been procurred for which retroactive financing is recommended (para.
3.33).



- 15 -
3.09      Mponde.  The withering facilities would be improved on an urgent
basis by the installation of mezzanine floor and additional troughs and fans.
Two wood burning stoves purchased in Phase I are now being installed. Another
packer would be urgently installed. Additional witheLing troughs, roling room
equipment, conversion of existing boilers to operate on firewood, made tea
bins, spares and workshop machinery would be provided in years 1, 2 and 3 of
the Project.
3.10      During negotiations assurances were obtained that appropriate
provision would be made through regular budgetary procedures of TTA for the
proper operation and maintenance of the factories.
Vehicles, Trucks and Tractors
3.11      Green Leaf Collection.  An additional 28 7-ton lorries and 18
tractors with trailers would be purchased to handle the increasing quantity
of leaf as plantings mature. The tractors would be used for collection of
leaf from centers located near the factory while lorries would cover the
more distant routes. TTA, in cooperation with village committees, would work
out detailed leaf collection schedules. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that provision would be made for adequate maintenance of vehicles
and supply of spares and that TTA would establish sound operating and recording
procedures to ensure that the vehicles are used efficiently.  TTA staff would
ensure that only leaf of the desired standard, i.e. a bud and 2-3 leaves, is
purchased, overloading of leaf transport vehicles is avoided, and delivery to
the factory is done expeditiously.
3.12      Other Transport.  One four-wheel drive vehicle would be provided
for each of the two new factories, Mwakaleli and Ukalawa, and one for each
of the two expatriate Resident Engineers to be stationed at Katumba and
Lupembre (para. 3.23). To improve head office supervision over the factories,
nine cars would be provided for the use of the General Manager, his six
executive officers, and the two expatriates. To ensure that vehicles operating
costs (including maintenance and repair costs) are kept to a minimum, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that TTA would establish operating and
recording procedures to ensure that the vehicles are used efficiently. TTA's
transport officer would provide close supervision to ensure that the procedures
would be adhered to.
Fuelwood Plantations
3.13      The Bukoba and Lupembe factories already operate on fuelwood and
Mponde factory is being converted from furnace oil to fuelwood. In Bukoba
firewood is purchased from the Forest Department and neighboring estates. The
Lupembe factory purchases wood from a commercial company at Njombe and tran-
sport costs are high. The same would apply to Ukalawa when it starts operating.
3.14      The establishment of TTA's own eucalyptus plantations would assist
in further Seductions in fuel costs. Based on an estimated firewood require-
ment oi 1 m per 150 kg of made tea, and on fuelwood plantation yield of
17.5 m /ha/p.a. on a 8-year coppice cycle, a 400 ha fuelwood planation would
be required for each of the factories at Lupembe, Ukalawa and Bukoba, and



- 16 -
500 ha for the Mponde factory giving a total requirement of about 1,700 ha.
TTA has already established 100 ha at Mponde, the balance of 1,600 ha fuelwood
plantations would be established under the Project. Land for establishing the
plantations has been identified in these areas. The establishmert of a
fuelwood plantation in Bukoba is, however, subject to a soil survey being
carried out to establish the suitability of the proposed site. A full report,
on the site or alternative sites, if necessary, would be submitted to IDA for
its comments, not later than December 31, 1980 and prior to establishment of
the plantation.
Planting Program
3.15      The minimum economic size of the new Igoga factory would be a
million kg made tea, equivalent to 4.7 million kg green leaf. The existing
plantings in the area would provide an estimated 3.2 million kg green leaf, at
maturity (para. 3.07). To ensure full utilization of the Ukalawa factory, the
Project would, therefore, finance an additional 200 ha which will be planted
by smallholders in years 1 and 2. Existing farmers whose tea plantings are
less than 0.4 ha and new farmers would participate. TTA would produce plant-
ing materials in its own nurseries for sale at'cost plus'to farmers and would
ensure that only healthy and vigorous plants are supplied. Fertilizer at the
recommended rates would also continue to be supplied on credit by TRDB, for
the first two years as capital loan, and thereafter as seasonal credit, and
repaid by farmers through the general levy of TSh 0.40 per kg green leaf,
while TTA would be directly reimbursed for its nursery costs.
3.16      An infilling program covering an equivalent of 630 ha would be
carried out with Rungwe undertaking 450 ha and Njombe and Lushoto doing 90 ha
each. Planting material and fertilizer would be provided on the same prin-
ciple as for the new planting.
3.17      Present factory and planting investments would result in the most
economic utilization of the proposed factory network. Any further expansion
of tea areas resulting in additional production would result in either lower-
ing of tea quality standards or inability to process the grean leaf. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would not undertake
any additional plantings without having made arrangements for additional
processing facilities.
Warehouses
3.18      To improve storage facilities of tea prior to shipment and to reduce
storage costs TTA would acquire two warehouses at Dar-es-Salaam.
Road Construction and Maintenance
3.19      The Project would finance the construction and maintenace of 176
km of selected tea roads. Of this, 51 km would be in Rungwe, 19 km in Bukoba,
and 53 km each in Lushoto and Njombe. The roads would supplement the road



- 17 -
network of 300 km constructed under Phase I, and the same technical specifica-
tions would apply:  7.5 m width between centers of side drains; barreled
cross-section, center line level minimum 40 cm above invert of side drains,
and gravel or crushed stone surface of 3 m width with a minimum thickness of
10 cm. The roads would be maintained to ensure that they are passable in all
weather.
3.20      The Regions would be responsible for tea road construction and
maintenance. Equipment and technical assistance (para. 3.24), would be
provided under the Project to establish a road construction unit at Njombe
(Iringa Region). Provision for spareparts would be made to rehabilitate
the existing construction unit at Bukoba. At Rungwe (Mbeya Region and
Lushoto (Tanga Region) NORAD would continue to provide both technical and
financial assistance for road works under an existing agreement between
Government and NORAD which includes the proposed tea roads in these two areas
in the Region/NORAD work program.
3.21      Assurance were obtained during negotiations that the work program
for Njombe would be forwarded to IDA for review not later than March 31 pre-
ceding the start of the Government fiscal year to which the work program
relates.
Technical Assistance
3.22      The Project would continue to finance the present expatriate Chief
Engineer position at TTA headquarters for a further three years and the
present expatriate Factory Superintendent position for a .'urther four years
(Chart C-2). The Chief Engineer would plan and implement the factory cons-
truction work program proposed under the Project. In particular he would
organize the construction of the Ukalawa factory and complete the construction
of Mwakaleli factory. The Factory Superintendent, in liaison with the Market-
ing Manager would stipulate the grades of made tea required and supervise
the manufacture of tea in each factory. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that both positions would remain filled with qualified personnel.
In case of a change in staffing the replacement would be appointed after
consultation with IDA.
3.23      In addition, two internationally recruited Resident Engineers would
be appointed after consultation with IDA, for the full Project period, one
for the Rungwe area and the other for the Njombe area (Chart C-2). The
Resident Engineers will be responsible for the day-to-day smooth running of
the two factories and vehicles in their respective areas. They will also
inspect quarterly the maintenance and repairs of Bukoba and Mponde Factories.
With respect to the construction of the new Ukalawa factory and the completion
of Mwakaleli factory the respective Resident Engineer would report to the
Chief Engineer while at the same time keep the Factory and Branch Manager
informed.
3.24      Two expatriate engineers, a mechanical engineer and a construction
engineer, would be employed for a period of two years each to assist the
Regional Authority at Njombe in the road construction and maintenance program.
The appointment of the engineers would be made not later than December 31,
1980 and their qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employ-
ment would be satisfactory to the GOT and IDA.



- 18 -
3.25      The Project would also provide for a total of six man-months of
short-term consultancy to assist and advise TTA in reviewing and further
improving its management system, organizational structure, standard of tea
manufacture and crop husbandry. This proposal was discussed during negotia-
tions and an assurance obtained that consultants would be engaged on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, if a determination is made by TTA and IDA
that such consultants are required.
Implementation Schedule
3.26      A Chart showing the anticipated rates of implementation of the
various Project components is at Chart C-1.
C. Project Costs
3.27      The total costs of the Project would be TSh 166.2 million (US$20.0
million), of which US$11.4 million (57%) represents the foreign exchange
costs. The costs include about TSh 2.2 million (US$0.26 million) of taxes
and duties on vehicles. The phasing of Project costs is given in Table
T-1 and detailed costs for each component are presented in Tables T-la to
T-lh. 1/ Project costs are summarized below:
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total 1/   Local  Foreign  Total 1/  Exchange  Cost
-- ---- TSh '000 -------   ------- US$ '000 -------         %         %
Factory Construction and
Rehabilitation            21,529  30,398   51,926    2,594   3,662   6,256           59        40
Vehicles, Trucks and
Tractors                   4,720  18,614   23,334        569   2,243   2,811         80        18
Fuelwood Plantations         4,096      216    4,312       494       26      520         5        3
Planting Program             7,269   2,726    9,996        876      328   1,204         27        8
Warehouses                   2,500      -      2,500       301      -        301         -        2
Road Construction and
Maintenance                5,639  18,295   23,933        679   2,204   2,884         76        19
Technical Assistance           207   3,940    4,147         25      475      500        95        3
Incremental Staff            8,606      -      8,606    1,037       -     1,037         -         7
Total Baseline Cost       54,566  74,188  128,754    6,574   8,938  15,513            58      100
Physical Contingencies   3,467   7,038   10,505          418      848   1,266        67         8
Price Contingencies       13,187  13,725   26,912    1,589   1,654   3,242           51        21
Total Cost                71,220  94,952  166,172    8,581  11,440  20,021           57       129
Total Cost Net of
Taxes and Duties        69,090   94,952 164,042    8,324  11,440  19,764            58       127
1/   Differences in totals are due to rounding.



- 19 -
3.28      Project costs have been estimated on the basis of prices expected in
March 1980. Factory cost estimates have been based on actual bids. Physical
contingencies of 10% have been added to all costs except TTA's technical
advisers and incremental staff. Price contingencies have been included at
following rates: machinery, equipment, vehicles and fertilizer at 10.5% to
1908/91: 9.0% 1981/92; 8.0% in 1982/83 and 7.0% thereafter. Local equipment
and staff costs at 11% in 1980/81, 10% in 1981/82 and 9% thereafter; inter-
nationally recruited staff at 10% in 1980/81 and 9% thereafter; civil works at
12% in 1980/81 and 1981/82, 11% in 1982/83, 10% in 1983/84 and 9% in 1984/85.
The high price contingencies on civil works are based on the assumption of an
increasingly high pressure on construction industry capacity in Tanzania.
Price contingencies total 21% of Project baseline costs.
3.29      Included in the costs is a provision for 6 internationally recruited
staff (paras. 3.22-3.24) who would provide 252 man-months of service to the
Project at an estimated total cost of US$690,000. This estimate is based on a
range of salaries (inclusive of basic salary, travel and subsistence) from
US$24,000 to US$70,000 p.a.
3.30      In addition, Project costs also provide for a total of six man-months
of short-term consultancy at an estimated total cost of TSh 498,000 (US$60,000).
The average cost per man-month (salary, fee, travel and subsistence) is esti-
mated at TSh 83,000 (US$10,000).
D. Financing
3.31      The financing of Project costs, net of taxes and duties, would be as
follows:
US$ Million              %
IDA                              14.0                  71
NORAD                              1.6                  8
Government of Tanzania            4.2                  21
Total                       19.8                100
3.32      The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 million would be on standard
terms to the Government of Tanzania. The credit would cover 89% of the
foreign exchange costs of the Project (US$10.2 million). NORAD has agreed to
finance the road components at Rungwe and Lushoto; this would cover the remain-
ing 11% of the foreign exchange costs of the Project (US$1.2 million). In



- 20 -
addition, the IDA credit would cover 45% of local costs, which together with
the foreign exchange financing gives IDA a share of 71% in total Project costs
financing. NORAD's financing of local costs is estimated at 4.8%. GOT would
finance the remaining US$4.2 million, net of taxes and duties.
3.33      As the Project is a continuation of an ongoing program, and tea
factories are already overloaded due to the delay in expanding processing
capacity and increasing green leaf production from tea holdings, retroactive
financing to a total amount of US$1.0 million to cover payments made by GOT
after July 1, 1979,is recommended for factory construction and equipment to
ensure an effective and early execution of the Project so that all green leaf
is processed and the quality of made tea improved (paras. 3.04-3.09).
3.34      GOT funds for the supply of fertilizer and planting materials to
farmers on credit (TSh 6.5 million, including contingencies) would be channeled
through TRDB. Farmers would repay the loan from year 4 onwards out of
the levy of TSh 0.40 kg 1/ green leaf, which is being collected from all tea
growers. Credit funds and GOT contributions for the road component (TSh 18.1
million, including contingencies) would be channeled to the Regions of Iringa
and West Lake through budgetary allocation. The remainder of credit funds and
GOT contributions (TSh 125.0 million, including contingencies) would be onlent
by GOT to TTA for a period of 28 years, including 8 years of grace, at an
annual interest rate of 10%, which is currently the interest charged by GOT to
parastatal borrowers. These terms and conditions of the financing plan would
be discussed at negotiations. Completion, in a form satisfactory to IDA, of a
subsidiary loan agreement between GOT and TTA would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the credit.
E. Procurement
3.35      Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. TTA staff are fully conversant with the procurement guidelines
and no problems are anticipated in this regard. For specific items, following
guidelines would apply: 2/
(a)  orders for tea processing machinery and equipment (US$3.5
million), vehicles and spare parts (US$3.5 million), road
equipment and spare parts (US$1.2 million), would be bulked
as far as practicable, and orders of US$100,000 and above
would be procured through international competitive bidding;
1/   TSh. 0.15 towards medium term development loan and TSh. 0.25 towards
seasonal funding of inputs.
2/   This includes items for retroactive financing (para. 3.33).



- 21 -
(b) orders for machinery, equipment and vehicles below US$100,00
would be procured in accordance with existing local procedures
which are satisfactory; however, these orders would not exceed
US$300,000 in aggregate;
(c) contracts for the construction of buildings (US$4.2 million)
would be too small and scattered to attract international
interest. Procurement would therefore be by contracts
awarded following locally-advertised bidding; foreign firms
would be entitled to compete if interested;
(d) the nursery program (US$0.7 million), the establishment of
fuelwood plantations (US$0.8 million) and the construction
and maintenance of roads (US$0.6 million) would be executed by
TTA and Regional Authorities on force account.  TTA has already
acquired the necessary expertise during Phase I and, therefore,
would be able to provide efficient and economic execution.
The nurseries would be phased out in the fourth Project year;
(e) the selection and employment of consultants to provide
technical assistance to TTA (US$0.7 million) and to the
District Road Engineer at Njombe (US$0.3 million) would
be on terms and conditions acceptable to GOT and IDA.
Draft tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in excess of
US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval before bid invitations are
issued, and bid analysis and recommendations for award would be submitted to
IDA for comment before contracts would be awarded. In the evaluation of bids
for (a) above, bonafide domestic manufacturers would be accorded a preference
of 15 percent or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the procurement procedures outlined
above would be followed.
F. Disbursement
3.36      Disbursement of funds from the Credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of tea processing
machinery and equipment, vehicles, road equipment,
spare parts, and 85% of local costs when these are
purchased locally (US$5.0 million);
(b) 80% of the costs, of construction of factory buildings,
building extensions, and houses (US$3.0 million);



- 22 -
(c) 100% of the foreign exchange costs and 85% of the local
costs of internationally recruited personnel and consultancy
services (US$1.0 million);
(d) 80% of the local costs of road construction (other than
internationally-recruited staff costs) in Njombe and
Bukoba (US$0.5 million);
(e) 80% of the salaries of incremental local staff employed
by TTA (US$0.8 million);
(f) 80% of the costs of establishing fuelwood plantations and
tea nurseries (US$1.0 million);
(g) 70% of vehicle operating costs (US$1.0 million); and
(h) an unallocated amount of US$1.7 million, representing
contingencies on the above categories, and transferable
to them as required.
3.37      All disbursement under (a), (b) and (c) would be against contracts
and hence, fully documented. Disbursements against (d) would be on the
basis of certificates of expenditure signed by the Regional Roads Engineers.
Disbursements against (e), (f) and (g) would be on the basis of certificates
of expenditure signed hy the General Manager of TTA. For disbursements for
local costs against (ei, (f), and (g), supporting documents would be retained
for inspection by supe.-vision missions. Funds remaining in the Credit at
Project completion would be cancelled, unless otherwise agreed to by IDA. A
schedule showing the estimated pattern of disbursements under the Project is
presented in Table T-6.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.38      Separate accounts relating to expenditures under the Project would
be kept by TTA. TTA's accounts are presently satisfactorily audited by the
Tanzania Auditing Corporation. Audited financial statements for the years up
to June 30, 1978, have been submitted to IDA and are satisfactory. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that TTA's accounts would continue to be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that such audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each
financial year. The auditors would specifically review and comment on the
procedures used for control of disbursement against statements of expenditure.
Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that TTA would submit quar-
terly financial statements together with a progress report within six weeks
of the end of each quarter.



- 23 -
H. Environmental Effect
3.39      The Project is not expected to have any measurable adverse impact
on the environment. The tea factories will not be discharging any effluents
which could pollute the area. TrA and Extension staff will encourage farmers
to follow recommended husbandry practices in order to reduce soil erosion to
a minimum.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Headquarters
4.01      TTA has undertaken, at the Bank's request, a study of its management
performance and future requirements. The study recommended decentralizing
most of TTA's day-to-day management responsibilities to its field Branches
and for two main reasons. Firstly, most of TTA activities are carried out
at the Branches rather than at HQ. Secondly, the Branches are located in
remote areas and this, linked with the country's poor communications system,
provides a strong argument for reasonable autonomy at the Branch level. The
one exception is the marketing activities which will continue to operate from
Headquarters. Subsequent discussions between TTA and the Bank have resulted
in an agreement to further improve the TTA management structure. Details of
the proposed TTA organizational set up at Headquarters and at the Branch
offices is shown in Chart C-2. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the vacancy created by the transfer of the incumbent General Manager to
head another parastatal, would be filled early. The appointment of a new
General Manager would be a condition of Project effectiveness.
4.02      With the decentralization, TTA's headquarter operations would
become one of policy planning, monitoring and evaluating, marketing, and
programming. It is estimated that out of the present 93 staff, 53 would be
retained. An incremental 12 staff would be appointed bringing the total
number of headquarters staff to 65 (Table T-lh). TTA would continue to manage
its operations with two operational departments--the Marketing Directorate and
Operations Directorate but with three rather than two service departments
Finance Directorate, Manpower Development Division and an Audit Division.
4.03      The Finance Directorate is headed by a Financial Director, and
he would have three divisions reporting to him: Administration, Planning
and Accounting. The first two divisions require new Heads. TTA indicated
during negotiations that they would consult IDA before appointment of the Head
of Planning (Senior Economist). The Head of the Administration Division would
be the Company Secretary. The financial accounts section within the Accounting
Division requires a new head, and as indicated by TTA during negotiations the
appointment would be made in consultation with IDA.



- 24 -
4.04      The Marketing Directorate is headed up by a Marketing Director
whose appointment was also approved by IDA during Phase I. He has two divi-
sion managers reporting to him: The Shipping Manager and the Marketing
Manager. Additional key staff are not required.
4.05      The Auditing Division would now be a separate unit with the Head of
the Division reporting directly to the General Manager.
4.06      The Manpower Development Section is responsible for recruitment and
staff development programs. The manager would report directly to the General
Manager.
4.07      The Operations Directorate is to be headed up by an Operations
Director. A suitable candidate would be appointed not later than March 31,
1981, after consultation with IDA. The Director would be responsible for (a)
all Branch Managers who would report to him direct, and (b) the advisors, i.e.
Factory Superintendent and Chief Engineer.
B. Branches and Factories
4.08      In order to achieve effective decentralization, it would be neces-
sary to upgrade the level of staff particularly at the field level, with
particular emphasis on the financial and managerial aspects of Branch opera-
tions. It would call for Branch Managers to be supported by Department Heads
of sufficient experience to run their activities without too much dependence
on headquarters. TTA has submitted an application to SCOPO to upgrade its
status, and the salary grades of staff, to enable it to attract staff of a
higher caliber particularly at the Branch level. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that Government would take all necessary action so that by
December 31, 1980, TTA's status as a parastatal organization shall have been
upgraded.
4.09      Factory management, engineering and supervision would be strength-
ened.  At present the four TTA factories are managed by factory managers who
depend on (senior) technicians for the operation of the factories under their
control.  To ensure that the proposed factory improvements are carried out
properly and that factory technicians are properly trained in preventive
maintenance procedures, two expatriate Resident engineers would be engaged,
one each for the Rungwe and Njombe areas (para. 3.23).
C. Fuelwood Plantations
4.10      The establishment of additional fuelwood plantations in Bukoba,
Njombe and Lushoto would be under the charge of Tea Extension Managers
who are senior agricultural officers.



- 25 -
D. Roads
4.11      During Phase one, NORAD was responsible for the construction and
maintenance of tea roads in the Lushoto and Rungwe areas. This arrangement
would be continued under this Project.
4.12      In Bukoba, the Regional Engineer would be responsible for the
construction of the additional 19 km of roads.
4.13      In the Niombe area technical assistance would be provided to
strengthen the Regional authorities. Two internationally recruited staff--a
Mechanical Engineer and a Construction Engineer--would be engaged for two
years to implement the proposed construction and maintenance program (para.
3.24). During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government would
make appropriate provisions through the regular budgetary procedures of the
Region to carry out the proposed work program.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.14      Monitoring and evaluation of the Project would provide an important
management tool to TTA and MOA and form an integral part of the plan to
achieve improved performance.  The Head of Planning (Senior Economist), in
cooperation with PpMB, would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation.
The Head of Planning would submit detailed quarterly reports on the physical
implementation of the Project and the use of funds, to the General Manager of
TTA, and through him to the Principal Secretary of Kilimo, and to IDA.
Information on the progress of the roads component would be made available to
TTA by the Regional Roads Engineers. Particular attention would be paid in
these reports to:
(a) the progress of the factory construction and rehabilitation
component, in terms of factory buildings constructed and
extended, tea machinery and equipment procured and installed;
(b) progress in the procurement of vehicles related to green
leaf collection;
(c) progress in the establishment of fuelwood plantations;
(d) progress of the tea planting component, in terms of growers
recruitment, nursery development, supply of planting
materials and fertilizer;
(e) progress in the procurement and delivery of roads equip-
ment, and the Region's progress in road construction and
maintenance;



- 26 -
(f)  progress in the recruitment of Project financed staff;
(g)  analysis of green leaf collection costs, tea manufacturing
costs, selling and administrative expenses;
(h)  analysis of tea sales;
(i)  analysis of any other financial data, policy or price
changes, overdraft facilities, etc. affecting TTA's
financial position;
(j)  progress made by TTA toward becoming financially viable;
(k)  statistics of crops harvested compared with TTA estimates
together with rainfall over the period and comments on
any variations from the TTA estimates.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these reporting procedures
would be followed.
4.15      Within six months of the completion of disbursements, TTA would
prepare and submit to IDA a Project Completion Report, analyzing the imple-
mentation of the Project and its impact in relation to its objectives. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained to this effect.
V. TEA PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING
A. Production - Technical Features
5.01      The main tea growing areas of Tanzania (para. 2.01) are at altitudes
of between 1,000 and 1,700 m and are widely separated from one another and
differ ecologically as well as socio-economically.
5.02      Rainfall in all areas is generally adequate for tea production.
Annual averages range from 1,400 mm in Lus'aoto in the Usambara Highlands
to 2,600 mm in Rungwe. Rain normally falls every month although a definite
rainy season occurs from November through May. Rungwe and Njombe experience
dry season from June through October while Usambara, which has a bi-modal
pattern has its dry seasons in July-September and December-January. Leaf
production during the drier seasons is considerably lower. Occasional frosts
particularly in the Njombe area, cause damage to the tea bushes.
5.03      Soils in all areas are generally suitable but in two areas soil
conditions give rise to some difficulty in the establishment of growing tea
bushes. In Bukoba the soils are loose and friable with low humus content and
consequently period it is necessary to mulch between tea bushes until a cover
is formed by the tea bushes themselves. Due to numerous rock out-crops and
considerable variation in subsoil depth, careful selection of tea areas is



- 27 -
required. In Rungwe, the problem arises from the layer of volcanic pumice
to be found at varying depths below the surface. Until the tea roots have
penetrated this layer into more fertile soils below, growth tends to be
retarded.
5.04      Topography differs markedly among the tea growing areas.  In the
Usambara mountains and in parts of the Njombe area of the southern highlands,
slopes are steep. In Rungwe, although the terrain is mountainous, the cul-
tivated hillsides are generally more gently sloping. In Bukoba, the land is
gently undulating to flat. Soil conservation measures are necessary in all
areas but once the tea bushes are established soil erosion even on the steep-
est slopes, is reduced considerably.
5.05      A large number of smallholders have been cultivating tea for some
years now, and, therefore, are conversant with the general husbadry practices.
All tea growers receive fertilizers as part of the present credit scheme.
Certain aspects of tea husbandry, e.g. pruning, could be improved upon but no
marked improvements in husbandry practices are envisaged during the Project
period. Extension efforts which are now the responsiblity of Kilimo, would
be geared to prevent slippage in present husbandry standards. Kilimo would
retain the existing extension staff in the tea growing areas and the TTA
extension coordinator in each area would work closely with Kilimo staff.
5.06      There has been a gradual improvement in yields largely due to
maturing of bushes but also because of improved husbandry. In 1973/74 only 2%
of the smallholdings were mature (10 years and over) and by 1980/81, 31% of
the holdings would attain maturity. On the basis of age of bushes and current
production levels it is estimated that at maturity average yields of made tea
would range from 600 kg/ha in Bukoba to 1,000 kg/ha in the Njombe are (Table
T-9).
B. Production - Farmers' Benefits
5.09      The Project is designed essentially to strengthen the factory
aspects of TTA. The small component of 200 ha of additional tea plantings in
the Njombe area is included to provide sufficient green leaf to the Ukalawa
factory. Each farmer participating in the project would receive material to
plant about 0.4 ha. The supply of planting material as well as fertilizer
would be on credit and deductions would be made from his grean leaf sales at
40 cents per kg.
5.10      There is a strong demand from farmers to plant tea and the Regional
authorities and TTA are highly confident of achieving the planting of the 200
ha. The existing tea growers in all the tea regions would also benefit by
the improvements and expansion in factories and their management by being
assured of a reliable outlet for their increasing green leaf production.



- 28 -
5.11      The net income that a farmer would earn from his 0.4 ha of tea in
the Njombe area is shown in Table T-10. His earnings per manday increase
from TSh 2.5 in the third year from planting when plucking first commences
to TSh 21.0 at maturity.  An average family of 6 persons (4 adult equivalents)
would have adequate labor resources to provide the 104 mandays of work per
annum required for 0.4 ha of tea, in addition to operating its existing farm
enterprise which consists mainly of cultivating subsistence crops like maize
and beans (Tables 11, 12, 13).
5.12      The net returns from mature holdings in the Rungwe, Njombe, Bukoba
and Lushoto areas are shown below:
Rungwe      Njombe      Bukoba      Lushoto
Holding size (ha)              1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
Yield green leaf (kg)        4,500       5,000       3,000       4,000
Net Returns (TSh)            4,910       5,460       3,260       4,360
Returns per manday (TSh)    18.9          21.0        12.5        16.8
5.13      The returns per manday from mature tea are attractive (except in
Bukoba) and exceed those from coffee (TSh 12.0) or maize (TSh 7.7) and since
all these crops are essentially part of the farmers cropping system there is
no serious risk of competition as such. Tea has the additional advantage
that it brings in a continuous income to farmers throughout the year and the
crop so far has not experienced any serious attackes of disease or pests.
5.14      The present favorable position of tea in terms of net returns
per manday per hectare are dependent on the current prices obtained for
the individual crops, i.e. tea, coffee, maize. The relative positions could
change with changes in crop prices. However, the strong position of tea
relative to other crops can also be seen by the fact that tea green leaf
prices would have to drop to TSh 0.45/kg or TSh 0.59/kg for net returns per
manday to be on part with those from traditional and improved maize respec-
tively at the current maize price of TSh 1.0/kg. In comparison with coffee,
tea green leaf prices would have to drop to TSh 0.70/kg.
5.15      Green leaf price would be kept constant over the Project period
subject, however, to an annual review (para. 7.01). Taking projected infla-
tion 1/ into account it is estimated that green leaf price would decrease
from TSh 1.10 to TSh 0.65 in year 5 in real terms. This reduction in price
would bring the net returns from tea in Rungwe on par with current coffee
returns in year 5. However, world market prices of coffee are also expected
to decline from their high level (1979-constant) and therefore would limit
producer price increases as much as for tea. Even in Bukoba, which is the
lowest yielding tea area, the present differences in returns from tea and
1/   At 10.0% p.a. (1979 constant).



- 29 -
coffee would continue. In the case of maize, even if the farmers became
improved maize growers with yields of 2,000 kg/ha the returns would not be
of serious consequence since it is unlikely that tea growers would seriously
consider permanently abandoning their tea for maize. 1/
Comparative Returns per Man-Day
in Rungwe and Bukoba
-------Rungwe ----------      --------Bukoba--------
Crop                         Price/kg   Returns/m.d.       Price/kg   Returns/m.d.
(TSh)         (TSh)            (TSh)        (TSh)
Tea 1979 1/                   1.10          18.9               1.10        12.5
1985 ('79 constant)      0.65           11.2              0.65         7.4
Coffee 2/ 1979               11.3           11.9             10.6          15.6
1985               6.6            7.0               6.2          9.1
Maize 3/
(Traditional)           1.0             7.7              1.0          7.7
(Improved)              1.0           10.1               1.0         10.1
1/   Green leaf yield:  Rungwe - 4,500 kg/ha;
Bukoba - 3,000 kg/ha.
2/ Rungwe - Arabica - 188 kg/ha;
Bukoba - Robusta - 200 kg/ha.
3/   Yield (Traditional) - 1,000 kg/ha;
(Improved)    - 2,000 kg/ha.
C. Production - Estimates
5.16      Production estimates are based on yield projections for each of the
tea growing areas taking into consideration age of plantings and present
production levels (Table T-9). An estimated 7,900 tons of made tea will be
1/   E.g. tea is an established and permanent crop bringing in regular
income; absence of disease and pest problems; maize is seasonal.



- 30 -
produced from all the TTA factories in the four areas by year 5. The break-
down be areas is as follows:
Rungwe    Niombe    Bukoba    Lushoto    Total
1984/85                3,705      1,885       960      1,350    7,900 tons
5.17      Since the project is primarily a consolidation phase and emphasis
is on factories the estimated incremental production is relativley small and
would come from the new 200 ha plantings and infillings (630 ha equivalent).
In year 5 the incremental production is estimated at 195 tons increasing to
610 tons in year 10. In addition, incremental factory capacity under the
Project of 2,600 tons in year 5 will permit additional processing of about
12,200 tons of green leaf from existing tea plantings.
D. Processing - Modifications
5.18      The aim of the factory component of the Project is to bring the
manufacturing processes within each factory into proper balance, increase
the capacity of each in phase with increasing yields, improve manufacturing
techniques and improve factory maintenance by providing better workshop
facilities, more spare, and engineering expertise (paras. 3.03-3.10 and
paras. 3.22-3.23). HiJ,h standards of manufacture would be established and
adhered to.
E. Processing - Benefits
5.19      The Factory Construction and Rehabilitation program would specific-
ally enable the factories to handle the projected green leaf supply in a
balanced and orderly fashion and obviate the rejection of smallholder leaf as
has happened recently at the Katumba factory. The processed teas would be of
a consistently good standard, a feature which attracts buyers and increases
competition with resulting higher prices. Without the Project the factories
simply could not process the anticipated green leaf supply and the "mark" or
good name of TTA tea would suffer from quality deterioration.
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
6.01      Since it is uncertain when the border with Kenya would be reopened,
it is assumed that TTA will continue to sell its tea through the established
three channels: London auction, direct sales, and local pool sales. Though
the share of these three marketing channels in TTAs total sales has varied
in the past from year to year (para. 2.23), TTA aims at a 40/40/20 share in



- 31 -
future. This implies a reduction in London sales, and an increase in direct
sales. The maximum volume of world teas offered on the weekly London auctions
is determined by the Tea Brokers' Association of London and this in turn
determines the individual country quotas. The limitation imposed on the
auctionable volume at a given time has caused long delays in TTA's sales, and
resulted in higher warehouse costs and stock financing charges. Since tea
consumption growth is expected to decline in Continental Europe and UK markets,
the London auction ceiling could curtail tea turnover even more sharply if
supplies to London rise in line with increases in the exportable surplus of
the tea producer countries. On the other hand, TTA's improved marketing
contacts with private buyers have facilitated a continuous increase of direct
sales since the Mombasa auction was closed to TTA. TTA's marketing strategy,
therefore, aims to reduce London sales and increase direct sales. The local
pool sales are a permanent part of an agreement between T.T.S.D.O. and all tea
manufacturers in Tanzania.
6.02      Project financial price assumptions are based on IBRD projections
1/ of the average annual price paid for all teas at the London auctionCTable
T-14). The real price of tea (in 1977 constant dollars) is expected to fall
from its record level of US$2.69/kg (TSh 22.23) in 1977 to US$1.49/kg (TSh
12.37) in 1985, levelling off at US$1.48/kg (TSh 12.28) in 1990.  In current
dollars, the projected price in 1985 is US$2.64/kg (TSh 21.93).  These
projections imply a decline in real terms of 18% from the 1979 constant price
during the Project period, and an increase in nominal terms of 19%.
6.03      Based on a sales analysis of the last three years, the prices for
the four factory areas in relation to the projected annual average price for
all London auction teas are conservatively expected to be: Njombe 5% higher,
Rungwe 2% higher, and Mponde and Bukoba equal to the London auction average
price.
6.04      Only top grades are shipped to London; a cross-section of top and
intermediate grades is supplied to the local pool; this leaves the off-grades
plus the balance of the top and intermediate grades for direct sales. The
comparative f.o.b. prices of direct sales therefore are considerably below
the f.o.b. prices of London sales. In the 1978/79 season, annual average
direct sales prices for Katumba and Lupembe were 18% below the London prices,
and those for Bukoba and Mponde were 40% below the London price. The price
differentials between factories have mainly been brought about by different
factory standards, inconsistency in grade percentages, and by the size of
1/   Commodities and Export Projections Division, May 1979.  At this time,
it was still considered unlikely that a workable and comprehensive
international tea agreement would be reached in the near future. In the
meantime, at a Meeting of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Tea
in December 1979, producers agreed in principle on the system of supply
management. However, at this stage, it is too early to readjust prices
on the assumption of effects on supply and prices if supply would be
controlled.



- 32 -
stocks carried over from 1977, which were particularly large for Bukoba and
Mponde. The CTC manufacture system should normally produce between 77% to
82% to top grades. In the last three years, there has been a considerable
variation in the grade percentages both within each factory as well as between
factories, with Bukoba and Mponde showing the greatest inconsistency. Though
the direct buyer is less sensitive to quality differentials than the London
auctions, he also recognizes better quality with higher prices. In 1978/79,
prices for the top grades of the four factories' direct sales were about 40%
above average prices for intermediate grades. Since the share of London sales
in TTA's total sales would be reduced (para. 6.01), and since factory invest-
ment and technical assistance provided under the Project would increase the
percentage of top grades at all factories, the quality of tea for direct
sales would improve. It is, therefore, conservatively estimated that the
price differential between direct sales prices and London auction prices (both
compared on Dar-es-Salaam f.o.b. basis) would be reduced to 15% for all
factories.
6.05       In the past, the ex-factory price for the local pool sales was below
the export parity price. In 1978/79, the price paid by TTSDO (TSh 10/kg) was
about TSh 2/kg lower than the ex-factory price realized by the TTA factories
for comparable export prices. To rectify this situation, the National Pricing
Committee raised the price for the 1979/80 season to TSh 11.90/kg which brings
it closely in line with the expected export prices. Based on grade percent-
ages of 70% top grades/30% intermediate grades/no off-grades supplied to the
local pool, the export parity price is presently calculated as a price 10%
below the annual average London auction price minus selling expenses,
insurance and freight and local costs (harbor, warehouse, export duty, and
transport factory-warehouses) (Table T-15). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the local pool price of tea would be reviewed periodically
by GOT, and if necessary, be changed to reflect parity with the average world
market price of Tanzania tea adjusted for quality and cost differentials as
outlined above.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Financial Analysis
7.01      TTA's prospects of becoming financially viable depend on the profit-
ability of its factories. Only if the past trend of continuous factory losses
can be reversed with the Project, has TTA a chance to become viable. The
major single cost item at factory level is the purchase of green leaf. In
1978/79, the share of the green leaf purchase costs in the average price per
kg made tea realized by the four Phase I Project factories was 58%.  If the



- 33 -
green leaf producer price would be held constant in nominal terms over the
Project period its share in the made tea price would decline to 38%, since
the world tea price, in current terms, is projected to increase by 19% by
1985 (para. 6.02). GOT in its discussions with the Bank (para. 1.01), has
indicated that it had decided in principle to hold the current g,L en leaf
producer price constant, in nominal terms, as long as positive changes in
the underlying assumptions--made tea price forecast, manufacturing cost
projections, selling and administrative expenses, and the foreign exchange
value of the shilling - do not increase the factories' operating profit
and TTA's net income to a level sufficient to allow the payment of a higher
green leaf producer price without jeopardizing the financial viability of
TTA. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that IDA would be consulted
during the annual price review and prior to instituting any price changes. A
detailed cost analysis of each factory and TTA headquarter prepared by MDB,
with input from TTA (para 4.14), would provide the basis fcr the annual price
review.
7.02      As a direct result of the Project investment and institution build-
ing, the quality of TTA's tea would be improved, sales volume will be in-
creased, and unit cost decreased through increased output and higher effi-
ciency (Tables T3a-e). Net realization from sales would increase between Tsh
1.0 - 4.0/kg made tea, depending on factory location and marketing channel,
and this would increase TTA's operating profit from the existing factories by
about Tsh 6.0 million, in current prices. The increase in the sales volume
resulting from factory expansion and improvement would add an extra TSh 8.0
million to TTA's operating profit. The main reduction in unit costs would be
in administrative expenses as the existing administration set-up, with minor
additions, would continue to be responsible for both the existing and the new
factories in each area (Table T-lg). Another decrease in administrative unit
costs would result from the reduction in TTA headquarter staff (para 4.02).
The reduction in unit cost at factory and headquarters together would decrease
administrative expenses from about Tsh 3.0/kg made tea to Tsh 1.40/kg. Green
leaf transport costs would also be reduced as a result of the Project's road
program, provision of new vehicles and spare parts, and the strengthening of
the maintenance services by equipping workshops and employing better qualified
staff. Unit transport costs would be reduced by an average of Tsh 0.30/kg
made tea (from TShO.90), which would reduce TTA's total green leaf transport
costs for the current green leaf production by about TShl.5 million. As a
result of TTA's own efforts to reduce costs, independent of the Project,
transport costs of made tea from factory to port are already being reduced by
transporting as much tea as possible by rail rather than by truck. These cost
reductions are particularly effective for the remote tea factories since they,
as a result of pan-territorial pricing, have the smallest profit margin
between f.o.b. costs and prices. Finally, GOT's recent decision to integrate
TTA's extension services with the extension services of MOA would lead to the
reduction in the cost of extension to TTA of about Tsh 5 million.
7.03      Projections, in current prices, of TTA's consolidated income state-
ment (Table T-3) shows that, after continuing to operate at a loss until
1981/82, TTA would have a positive net income thereafter. In Project year 5,
1984/85, TTA's consolidated income before provision for tax would amount to



- 34 -
TSh 6.0 million; this compares with a projected without Project loss of
TSh 1.5 million (Table T-2). TTA's projected cash flow with the Project
(Table T-4) indicates that the cash-flow would become positive during 1981/82;
by 1984/85 TTA's cumulative positive cash flow would reach TSh31.7 million.
However, due to the slow turn-over of stocks, particularly of the London
sales, TTA would continue to depend on Bank overdraft facilities. Already
during 1978/79, the current limit of Tsh 16.0 million proved to be too
low, and TTA had to open stock financing advances in London. This increased
dependency of TTA on overdraft is mainly the result of two decisions outside
of TTA's control namely the closure of the border to Kenya - which forced
TTA to shift all its auction tea from Mombasa to London (para. 2.19) with
subsequent delays in payments - and the fixing of the green leaf producer
price at its high level in 1977 when world tea market prices were at a peak.
To reduce the adverse effect of similar unanticipated events on TTA's future
liquidity, TTA's overdraft limit would be part of the periodic financial
review (para. 4.14,i).
7.04       The financial rate of return on TTA investments has been calculated
in constant 1979 prices for a 30-year period (Table T-16) giving a rate
of return of 6%.
7.05      A financial rate of return to equity on TTA investments has not
been calculated because of the unclear status of the factory accounts (para.
2.20). For the same reason, analysis and projection of TTA's balance sheet
was also not considered to be useful. 1/ Excluded from the analysis of
TTA's financial statements are also three branches of TTA outside the Project
areas and activities: Bulwa, Stone Valley/Mufindi and Korogwe. Bulwa and
Stone Valley were only recently taken over from private estates, and accounts
have not been consolidated yet. At Korogwe, TTA only provides agricultural
extension services to smallholders and these have now been transferred to MOA
(para 2.10). Since both Bulwa and Stone Valley have been profitable in
the past, their effect on TTA's overall financial position is expected to
be positive. However, since they would impose additional demand on TTA's
resources, they would be included in th periodic financial review (para.
4.14, i).
Government Cash Flow Implications
7.06      The effects, in current price terms, of the Project on Government's
cash flow are presented in Table T-5. Sources of funds would consist of IDA
Credit disbursements, NORAD's road funds, TTA and TRDB loan interest and
repayment. Uses of funds would be for the tea road program, farmers credit,
TTA investments and related recurrent expenses, and service charges and
repayment of the IDA Credit. Over the period of disbursement of the IDA
Credit, the Government's cash flow would only be negative in the first
1/   With these reservations, only TTA's but not the factories balance sheets
from 1972-1977 are presented in Table T-8.



- 35 -
Project year (Tsh 52.6 million); the cumulative cash flow would become
positive during the fifth Project year. After the disbursement period,
Government would continue to use funds for road maintenance (Tsh 2.1 million
in 1985-86), the IDA service charge (TSh 0.8 million), and repayments to
IDA (TSh 1.2 m; lion); these would easily be provided by TTA's and TRDB's
loan interest and repayment (TSh 12 million from 1985/86 - 1987/88, and
TSh 18 million from 1988/89 onwards).
Foreign Exchange Implications
7.07      The foreign exchange impact of the Project would be favorable
(Table T-7). Over the period 1980/81 through 1985/86, the Project would
generate net foreign exchange earnings in current prices, of TSh 185 million
(US$22.3 million) . Except for the first year of the Project, when disburse-
ment from the IDA Credit would lag behind Project expenditures, there would
be an average annual net inflow of foreign exchange of TSh 40 million (US$4.8
million). Over the ten-year period from 1980/81 through 1989/90, the Project
would generate cumulative net foreign exchange earnings, in current terms, of
TSh 350 million (US$42 million).
B. Economic Analysis
Economic Benefits
7.08      The Project's tangible benefits are derived from four separately
identifiable sources:
(a) The Project would provide for the construction of one new
factory (Ukalawa), the completion of a second factory (Mwakaleli)
and for the related services required to process green leaf.
Without the Project, the green leaf purchase from farmers
would have to be rationed as already done in Rungwe during
the 1978/79 season with adverse effects on the income of
families in areas without other equally rewarding employment
opportunities. At full development in 1991/92, the two
factories would process 2,700 tons made tea per annum,
about 80% of which would be exported. The annual throughput
of these two new factories has been treated in the economic
analysis as 'incremental production due to factory construction';
(b) the planting program would add an incremental production of
about 700 tons made tea at maturity (1992) and generate
higher revenue through improved efficiency of tea manufac-
turing. The incremental production from infillings and new
plantings, however, would increase Tanzania's share in
projected world output (1% without the Project) by only
0.05% and, therefore, have a negligible effect on tea
prices;



- 36 -
(c) the quality of tea processed in the existing four factories
would improve and increase the average price of direct
sales of the Katumba and Lupembe tea by 3%, and the average
price of all sales of the Mponde and Bukoba tea by 15%; and
(d) the road component and an improved vehicle maintenance
service would reduce green leaf transport costs. These
costs savings have been quantified very conservatively.
Benefits accruing to other users have not been taken into
account since no data exist on the volume of other traffic.
7.09      Since about 80% of the incremental tea production resulting from
the Project would be exported, it has been valued in constant 1979 prices on
the basis of projected export prices (Chapter VI) adjusted to reflect the
divergence between economic and financial exchange rates in the Tanzania
economy, by shadow-pricing foreign exchange at a rate of US$1 - Tsh 12.
7.10      In addition to these tangible benefits, the Project would have some
secondary benefits which are difficult to quantify. Since TTA is responsible
for the overall development of the tea industry in Tanzania, the institution
strenthening component of the Project would not only benefit the tea operations
under TTA's direct responsibilities but the tea sector of Tanzania as a
whole. Another secondary benefit would result from the Project's income effect
on additional factory employees, casual labor for the establishment of fuel-
wood plantations, and labor for handling additional green leaf and tea. This
large labor force would be able to improve the income level of their families
since without the Project their employment opportunities would be limited.
Economic Costs
7.11      The economic costs that have been taken into account in the economic
analysis of the Project are the capital costs (including 10% physical contingen-
cies) of the factory construction and rehabilitation program (including
Phase I expenditures for Mwakaleli), of vehicles (net of taxes), of the
establishment of fuelwood plantations, and of the tea planting program for
three years. The capital costs of the road component have been apportioned on
the basis of a useful life of the equipment of seven years, and of the spare
parts for the Bukoba road plant for three years. It has been assumed that
the equipment would be used in other parts of the Regions once the tea roads
were constructed in Project year 2. In addition to these capital costs, all
output related recurrent costs have been included in the economic analysis.
The economic costs of the green leaf supply have been calculated on the basis
of seasonal inputs of fertilizer ane tools (see Table T-12) and of 260 man-
days/ha farm labor. Farm labor has been shadow-priced at 50% of prevailing
minimum agricultural wage rates to reflect the isolation of the Project areas
and the greater-than-average lack of alternative income earning opportunities.
While the establishment costs of new tea plantings and infilling have been
included in the capital costs, the establishment costs of old plantings have
been excluded as sunk costs in the calculations of the green leaf supply
costs. Included in the incremental staff costs are the expatriate staff
financed under the Project as it is assumed that lower benefits would accrue



- 37 -
without their technical skill. Also included in the recurrent costs of the
economic analysis are the maintenance costs of the tea road constructed under
the Project. The value of maize production foregone as the result of 200 ha
new tea planted in Njombe has also been included; a yield of 2,000 kg/Iha has
been assumed, and this has been valued at import parity prices, less costs of
marketing and production (including labor). In the calculation of all
economic costs, foreign exchange has been shadow-priced at a rate of US$1 =
TSh 12.0.
Results of the Economic Analysis
7.12      The economic return of the Project has been calculated for the
Project over a 30-year period. In addition to calculating the return for
the Project as a whole, economic rates of return have been calculated separ-
ately for the four factory areas. The results of these analyses are:
Percent of Project
Factory Area             IERR         (T Sh Million) 1/           Capital Costs
Rungwe                   27%                468                        29%
Njombe                   16%                 197                       46%
Bukoba                   46%                  43                        9%
Lushoto (Mponde)         24%                  65                       12%
Overall Project          21%                 771                      100%
investments 2/
1/   Net present value at a discount rate (opportunity cost of capital) of
10%.
2/   The factory areas do not sum to 100% because Overall Project Investment
includes TTA head office costs.
7.13      The internal economic rate of return of the Project as a whole is
estimated at 21%. In the calculation of IERRs for the individual factory
areas TTA's overall management costs have not been apportioned. This accounts
for the rather high IERR for Bukoba where large benefits are expected as a
result of TTA's improvement in factory management since Bukoba, in the past,
performed particularly poorly.
7.14      Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to examine the effects of
changes in cost and benefit assumptions on the internal economic rate of
return of the Project. This gave the following results:



- 38 -
Changes in Assumption             Resulting IERR          Switching Value 1/
Benefits reduced by 10%                18%                        -
Benefits reduced by 20%                14%                        -
Costs increased by 10%                 18%
Costs increased by 20%                 15%
Costs increased by 10% and
benefits reduced by 10%              14%
Costs increased by 20% and
benefits reduced by 20%               8%
Benefits lagged by one year            16%
Benefits lagged by two years           13%
Switching value for benefits            -                       -29%
Switching value for costs                                       +40%
The IERR is moderaly s(nsitive to changes in cost and benefit assumptions.
Only a combined effect of costs increased by 20% and benefits reduced by 20%
would make the IERR unacceptable.
7.15      The major risks of the Project are organizational/managerial in
nature. The performance of the various factories under the Phase I Project
was affected by the standard of factory management and TTA supervision. How-
ever, TTA's management has gradually improved as local staff have accumulated
experience and expertise. The risk of unsatisfactory management has been
further reduced by inclusion in the Project of technical assistance in the key
positions of factory supervision and engineering. Short-term consultancies
are also being provided to further strengthen TTA's management of the Project
(para. 3.25). The provision of resident engineers at factory site (para.
3.23) would also minimize the risk of factory construction and rehabilitation
lagging behind green leaf supply. A second risk of the Project is substan-
tially lower than projected world tea prices. Forecasts for tea prices have
been based on a conservative view of the key producing countries' abilities to
achieve their expansion plans.
1/   Percentage by which benefits and costs would have to change for the
economic rate of return to drop to 10% (assumed as opportunity cost of
capital).



- 39 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  appropriate provision would be made through the regular
budgetary procedures of TTA for the maintenance of
factories (para. 3.10), and green leaf collection vehicles,
and supply of spares (para. 3.11);
(b)  the use of all TTA's vehicles, including those provided
under the Project, would be closely monitored and super-
vised and strict operating and recording procedures would
be established to ensure efficient use (para. 3.12);
(c)  a soil survey report on the suitability of the proposed
fuelwood plantations in Bukoba or of alternative sites
would be submitted to IDA by December 31st, 1980 for its
comments prior to the establishment of the plantation
(para. 3.14);
(d)  Government would not undertake any tea plantings in
the Project areas other than those provided for under
this Project, without first making adequate arrangements
for establishing additional processing facilities for the
subsequent production (para. 3.17);
(e)  the work program for the tea roads at Njombe (Iringa
Region) would be forwarded to IDA for review not later
than March 31 preceding the start of the Government
fiscal year to which the work program relates (para.
3.21); appropriate provision would be made by Government
through the regular budgetary procedures of the Regions
to carry out the NJombe and Bukoba road work program
(para. 4.13);
(f)  the Resident Engineers at Rungwe and Njombe (para. 3.23)
and the Road Engineers at NJombe (para. 3.24), would be
employed by not later than December 31, 1980, and their
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to GOT and IDA;
(g)  TTA would by not later than March 31, 1981, appoint an
Operations Director (para. 4.07) after consultation with
IDA on the qualifications and experience of the proposed
candidate.
(h) the position of Chief Engineer and Factory Superintendent
at TTA Headquarters would remain filled with qualified
personnel (para. 3.22);



- 40 -
(i) the financing of Project costs would be as stated
(paras. 3.31, 3.36);
(j) procurement procedures would be followed as outlined
(para. 3.35);
(k) TTA's accounts would continue to be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and that such audited accounts
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
each financial year; that TTA would submit quarterly
financial statements together with a progress report
within six weeks of the end of each quarter (para. 3.38);
(1) Government would upgrade TTA's organizational status by
December 31, 1980, to enable TTA to attract staff of a
suitable calibre particularly at its Branch offices, to
achieve efficient management (para. 4.08);
(m) consultants would be engaged periodically to advise
TTA on organizational, management and technical improve-
ments if a determination is made by TTA and IDA that such
consultants are required. The appointment of the
consultants and their terms of reference, would be done
in consultation with IDA (para. 3.25);
(n) reporting procedures as outlined would be followed, and that,
within six months of the completion of disbursements, TTA
would prepare and submit to IDA a Project Completion Report
(paras. 4.14 and 4.15);
(o) the local pool price of tea would be periodically adjusted
to reflect parity with the average world market price of
Tanzania tea (para. 6.05); that the current green leaf
producer price would be held constant, in nominal terms,
as long as factories' operating profit and TTA's net
income does not increase sufficiently to allow the
payment of a higher green leaf producer price without
jeopardizing the financial viability of TTA; that a
detailed cost analysis of each factory and TTA headquarter
would be carried out by MDB, with input from TTA, to
provide the basis for the annual price review; and that IDA
would be consulted prior to any decision to increase the
green leaf producer price (para. 7.01).
8.02      Condition of Credit effectiveness would be completion of a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between GOT and TTA (para.
3.34), and the appointment of TTA's General Manager (para. 4.01).



- 41 -
8.03      It would be a condition of disbursement against TTAs purchase of
a coal-fired boiler for the Katumba factory and against the funds for the
driers at the Mwakaleli factory that GOT ensures the allocation of sufficient
quantities of coal to these two factories (paras. 3.04 and 3.05).
8.08!     The above assurances having been obtained, the proposed Project
would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$14.0 million on
standard terms to the Government of Tanzania.



- 42 -
TANZANIA                                                 Chart C-1
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
RETROACTIVE                                      ;PROJECT PERIOD -  -         
1979/80          1980/81          1981/82           1982/83          1983/84          1984/85
_Ql Q2-103 04 Ql Q2          104  Q1  02 Q  3 Q  4  01  02  03 Q4  Ql Q2 Q3 Q4  0Ql Q2 Q304
FACTORY CONSTRUCTION AND                                  I
REHABILITATION
-Katumba Factory                  _1__
-Mwakaleli Factory       *        .. n**            n n _
-Lupembe Factory                                    . .
-Ukalawa Factory                                 . _  _ _         - .
-Bukoba Factory                                    a   a .. a _   _
-Mponde Factory                   . |  _                .  - _n
VEHICLE PROCUREMENT                               ... ...
FUELWOOD PLANTATIONS                               - j        a i      a _  i     -   -   -              i
PLANTING PROGRAM
-New Plantings                        [                        -  -  I
-Infillings                         ir                                                  I                                  , 
WAREHOUSES             | S
ROAD PROGRAM
-Equipment Procurement                  [
-Technical Assistance
-Construction
-Maintenance
TTA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
-Engineering Advisor
-Factory Superintendent                                         -           -                       .
-Resident Engineers
World Bank-21175
............. Planning/Procurement, Bidding and Contract Award
Implementation, Construction
January 9, 1980



- 4 3 -
TANZANIA                                   Chart C-2
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
3PNG"E  NGMlDE        MPONDE                       BKOBA
<'[i t[itX A                               t            <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~440t~
"ZI I  AS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R ISRRS
AIRy 9, 1984)






- 44 -
TANZANIA
Table T-1
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Phasing of Project Costs
Retro-        PYI          PY2          PY3          PY4           pY5
active     1980/81       1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      Total      F,E. %      F.E. Asount
(Figures in Tsh '000)                                                  (Tsh '000)
I. Factory Development
Nachinery                               3,630      11,036         3,848.       1,608          852             -      20,974        82         17,l99
Building and Installations              4,305      10,440        11,785        1,150             -            -      27,680       40           11,072
Sundry Equipment                          515       1.703           269          785                        _3272                 65            7 ,127
Sub-Total                          8,450      23,179       15,902        3,543           852            -       51,926       59          3'Q,398
II, Transport
Vehicles                                     -      9,110         1,080        1,310          460          240       12,200        75          9,150
Operation of Vehicles                        -      1.776         2,018        2,330        2,470        2,540       11.134       85           9.464
Sub-Total                              -      10,886        3,098        3,640        2,930         2,780       23,334       80          18,614
III, Fuel Wood Plantations
Establishment                                -        420           798          882          798          462        3,360         5             168
Maintenance                                  -          40          116          200          276          320           952        5              48
Sub-Total                              -         460          914        1,082        1,074           782        4,312        5             216
iV.  l'lanting Program
A)  Nursery                                  -      1,554         1,610        1,083            -             -       4,247       27           1,174
B)  Credit for Farmers                       -      1,978        2,049         1,463          129          129        5,749       27           1,552
Sub-Total                              -       3,532        3,659        Z,546          129          129        9,996        27          2,726
V. Warehouses
Sub-Total                           2,500          -            -                         -             -       2,500
VI. Roads
Construction                                 -      9,524       11,241             -            -            -       20,765.      82          17,028
Maintenance                                           -         _    _         1,056        1,056        1,056        3,168       40           1.267
Sub-Total                              -       9,524       11,241        1,056        1,056         1,056       23,933       76          18,295
VII. Staff (TTA)
Technical Assistance                         -         800          987          087          787          586        4,147       95           3,94n
Incremental (Local)                         -       1.246        1,878         1.923        1.766        1,793        8606 
Sub-Total                              -       3,046        2,865        2,910        2,553        2,379       12,753        31           3,940
TOTAL                         10,950    49,627        37,679        14,777        8,594        7,126      128,754       58          74,188
January 9, 1980



- 45 -
TANZANIA                                                Table T-la
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Factory Development: Project Costs By Factory
Retro-         PY1           PY2           PY3           PY4           PY5
active       1980/81       1981/82       1982/83       1983/84       1984/85     Total
(Figures in Tsh '000)
(Ytt,rmha) RuInave
Machinery                             2,037.0      2,605.0         530.0              -             -             -    5,172.0
Buildings and Installation            1,900.0        450.0         150.0              -             -             -    2,500.0
Sundry Equipment (Workshop                   -       285.0          75.0              -             -             -      360.0
Tools, etc.)
Sub-Total                        3,937.0      3,340.0         755.0             -             -             -    8,032.0
(Mwakaleli) Rungwe.
Machinery                               888.0         362.0      1,457.0         250.0         450.0              -    3,407.0
Buildings and Installation              425.0        500.0       1,925.0              -             -             -    2,850.0
Sundry Equipment (Workshop              515.0         63.0              -        680.0              -             -    1,258.0
Tools, etc.)
Sub-Total                        1,828.0        925.0       3,382.0         930.0         450.0             -    7,515.0
(Lupembe) Njombe
Machinery                                    -       905.0         270.0              -             -             -    1,175.0
Buildings and Installation              300.0        300.0         150.0          50.0              -             -      800.0
Sundry Equipment (Workshop                   -       273.0          20.0              -         _                 -      293.0
Tools, etc.)
Sub-Total                          300.0      1,478.0         440.0          50.0             -             -    2,268.0
(Ukalawa) Njombe
Machinery                                    -     6,260.0         120.0              -        402.0              -    6,782.0
Buildings and Installation            1,000.0      8,900.0       7,700.0              -             -            -   17,600.0
Sundry Equipment (Workshop                   -       540.4         173.7              -             -            -       714.1
Tools, etc.)
Sub-Total                        1,000.0    15,700.4        7,993.7             -         402.0             -   25,096.1
(Bukoba) Bukoba
Machinery                                280.0       495.0         625.0         604.0                           -    2,004.0
Buildings and Installation                   -       200.0         450.0       1,100.0              -            -    1,750.0
Sundry Equipment (Workshop                   -       312.0              -         _                -             -       312.0
Tools, etc.)
Sub-Total                          280.0      1,007.0       1,075.0       1,704.0             -             -    4,066.0
(Lushoto) Mponde
Machinery                                425.0        409.0         846.0        754.0              -            -    2,434.0
Buildings and Installation              680.0         90.0       1,410.0              -             -            -    2,180.0
Sundry Equipment (Workshop                   -       230.0              -        105.0             -             -       335.0
Tools, etc.)
Sub-Total                        1,105.0        729.0       2,256.0         859.0             -             -    4,949.0
All Factories
Machinery                              3,630.0    11,036.0       3,848.0       1,608.0         852.0             -   20,974.0
Buildings and Installation            4,305.0    10,440.0       11,785.0       1,150.0              -            -   27,680.0
Sundry Equipment (Workshop              515.0      1.703.4         268.7         785.0             -             -    3.272.1
Tools, etc.)
TOTAL                        8,450.0    23,179.4       15,901.7       3,543.0         852.0             -   51,926.1



- 46 -
Table T-lb
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Transport - Vehicle List and Cost by Factory and Headquarter
if
Number       Unit Cost          Total Cost
_  _ -------Tsh'000---- -----------
(KATU_BA1 RUNGW '
Lorries                       7               230              1,610
Tractors                      2               165                330
Trailers                      4                30                120
4-WD Station Wagon            1              180                 180
Spare Parts 2                 -                10                140
Sub-Total                                                      2,380
(MWAKALELI) RUNGWE
Lorries                      10               230              2,300
Tractors                      6               165                990
Trailers                      6                30                180
4-WD Station Wagon            1               180                180
Sub-Total                                                      3,650
(LUPEMBE) NJOMBE
Lorries                       2               230                460
Tractors                      3               165                495
Trailers                      4                30                120
4-WD Station Wagon            1               180                180
Spare Parts 2/                -                10                100
Sub-Total                                                      1,355
(UKAIAWA) NJOMNBE
Lorries                        5              230              1,150
Tractors                       2             165                 330
Trailers                       2               30                 60
4-WD Station Wagon             1             180                 180
Sub-Total                                                      1,720
(LUSHOTO) MPONDE
Lorries                       4               230                920
Tractors                      3              165                 495
Spare Parts 2/                -               10                  70
Sub-Total                                                      1,485
(BUKOBA) BUKOBA
Tractors                      2              165                 330
Spare Parts 2/                -               10                  20
Sub-Total                                                        350
HEADQUARTER
Cars Sub-Total                9              140               1,260
TOTAL
Lorries                       28             230               6,440
Tractors                      18             165               2,970
Trailers                      16              30                 480
4-WD                           4             180                 720
Spare Parts                    -              10                 330
Cars                           9             140               1,260
Total                          -              -               12,200
1/  Prices delivered to TTA in Dar-es-Salaam
2/  To put existing repairable vehicles in working order.
January 9, 1980



- 47 -
Table T-lc
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Fuelwood Plantations - Area and Cost by Factory
Ha      United Cost       Total Cost
--Tsh '000 ---------------
(Lupembe) NJombe                  400         2.1               840
(Ukalawa) Njombe                  400         2.1               840
(Lushoto) Mponde                 400          2.1               840
(Bukoba) Bukoba                   400         2.1               840
Total                1,600                          3,360



- 48 -
TANZANIA                                 Table T-ld
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Planting Program - Area, Requirements
and Cost by Factory Region
Amount           Unit Cost            Total Cost
Tsh '000
A. Nursery
Rungwe
Infilling area (ha)                      450
Plants required ('000)                 4,500
Nursery size required (ha)               3.9                561                2,187.9
Niombe
New planting area (ha)                   200                  -                      -
Infilling area (ha)                      110
Plants required ('000)                 3,100                  -                      _
Nursery size required (ha)              2.86                561               1,604.5
Mponde
Infilling area (ha)                       90                  _                      _
Plants required ('000)                   900                  -                      -
Nursery size required (ha)              0.81                561                  454.4
TOTAL                                                             4,246.8
B.  Credit for Farmers
Rungwe
Planting Material ('000)               4,5n(                n.6               ?,7nn.
Fertilizer (ton)                        43.8                1.7                   74.5
Sub-Total                                                              2,774.5
Niombe
Planting Material ('000)               3,100                0.6               1,860.0
Fertilizer (ton)                       308.1                1.7                 523.8
Sub-Total                                                             2,383.8
Mponde
Planting Material                        900                0.6                  540.0
Fertilizer (ton)                         8.7                1.7                   14.8
Sub-Total                                                                554.8
TOTAL                                                             5,713.1
GRAND TOTAL                                                              9,959.9
January 9, 1980



- 49 -                              Table T-le
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Roads - Equipment, Consultancy aod Construction C_ot by FactorLRieion
Number           Unit Cost 1V             Total Cost
I,  NJOMBE                                                     ------------(Tsh'000)-----------
PLANT
Eeavy Plant
Crawler Tractor (Angle Raver
acid Ripper) (180-220HT')                           1,140.7                1,140.7
Motor Grader (115-135HP)              2                  629                  1,258
F,ont Fnd Wheel Loader (15 r3)        1                  524.6                  524.6
Self-propelled pneumatic compec'or
(8-10 ton)                         1                  320                    320
Towed vibro-compactor (6-8 tir.)    1                     44.6                   44.6
Indtustrial Tractor witb bncker and
back-hoe (80HP)                    1                  296.6                  296.6
Water bowser (6,000 1)                1                  170.9                  170.9
Stl- total                                                         3,755.4
Vehicles
Pick-ups (;'50 kF)                    I                   51.4                   51.4
Tipper trucks (7 tot.)                3                  208.9                  626.7
Platform  trucks (2lm3/3 ton)         1                   18.5                   18.5
Mobile service workshop               1                  604.8                  604.8
.-WD stationwagon                     4                  139.5                  558
Caravan trailer                       1                   56                     56
Suib-total                                                         1,915.4
Equipment
Compreasor (125 cfm)                  1                   45.1                   45.1
Concrete mixer (300 1)                1                  109.3                  109.3
Water pump (75 nr)                    1                   13./                   13.7
Weldtng machine (60(0 opn)            1                   55.6                    55.6
Machine tools                                            200.8                  200.h
Air tools                           I set                  ;.Q                    5.9
Mech3nics tzole                     5 setS                 9.3                    6
Fite2 tenk (400 1)                    2                   23.7                   46,h
Sub-total                                                            523.3
Total                                                              6,194.1
Consultants
Mechanical Engineer                   1                  58)                  1,162.0
Construction Engineer                 1                  581                  1,162.0
Sub-tot al                                                         2,324.0
Constructione (Fir)                     53                   34
Sub-to tal                                                         1,802.0
Total.                                                            10?320.0
TI.    BUKOBA
PlanL Spaiepart,i
Lump sum (35v of new pla,t)                               -                   2.168.0
Su.-total                                                          2,168.0
Constructio., (lm)                      i9                   34
Sub-total                                                            646.0
Total                                                              2,814.0
I11.    RUNGW;E
NORA!) plaat apportioned 2-                            6,194                    885.7
NORAD consultants apportioned 3/                         581                  1,162.0
Construction (Kr)                    51                   34                  1,734.0
Total                                                              3,781.7
IV.    MPONDE
NORAD plant apportioned 2/                             6,194                    885.7
NORAD consultants apportioned  51                        581                  1,162
Construction (Km)                    53                   34                  1,802
Total                                                              3,649.7
GkAIOD TOTYAI                                                     20,765.4
1/  Prices delivered t', Da-es-Salaam.
2/ On the basis of X uSefol I;fe of 7 vear-
3/ 2 Engineers for 1 year.
January 9, 1980



TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Staff - List of Factory Staff of the Two New Factories
(Mwakaleli and Ukalawa) and Annual Cost
Grade MSU             Number             Unit Cost            Total Cost
-____-Tsh '000-------
Mwakaleli Ukalawa                        Mwakaleli  Ukalawa
Position
Factory Manager                          7               1          1            34              34         34
Factory Officer                          6               2          1            27              54         27
Assistant Factory Officer                4               3          2            14              42         28
Resident Engineer                        7               1          1            34              34         34
Mechanical Inspector                     6               1          1            27              27         27
Mechanical Foremen                       5               3          2            20              60         40
Electrical Inspector                     6               1          1            27              27         27           1
Turner                                   3               1          1             9               9          9          >
Artisan Mate                             1               4          3             5              20         15          0
Chest Maker                              1               6          3             5              30         15
Water Supply Attendant                   1               1          1             5               5           5
Power House Attendant                    3               -          1             9               -          9
Fan Attendant                            1               1          1             5               5          5
Headman                                  2               6          5             6              36         30
Factory Clerk                            2               1          1             6               6          6
Stores Clerk                             1               i          1             5               5          5
Green Leaf Reception Clerk               1               2          1             5              10          5
Typist                                   2               1          1             6               6          6
Factory Workers                          -              97         42             3             291        126
TOTAL                                         -          -             -             701        453
January 9, 1980



TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Staff List of Incremental General Staff of
Two Factory Regions (Rungwe and Njombe) and Annual Cost
1/
Grade MSU         Present           Incremental       Unit Cost         Total Cost
Number              Number         _Tsh '000
Rungwe   Niombe   Rungwe   Niombe                      Rungwe   Niombe
Position
Branch Manager                             10           1        1         -           -         54             -        -
Branch Accountant                           7           1        1         -           -         34             -         -
Assistant Accountant                        6           2        2         1           1         27            27       27
Branch Administrative Manager               7           1        -         -           1         34             -       34
Administrative Officer                      6            1       1         -           -         27             -         -
Cashier                                     3           1        1         1          1           9             9        9
Tea Extension Manager                       8           1        1         -          -         43              -        -
Senior Cooperative Officer                  6           1        1         -          -         27              -        -
Cooperative Officer                         5           2        2         -          -         20              -        -
Transport Officer                           6           1        1         -          -         27              -        -
Assistant Transport Officer                 4           2        -         -          2         14              -       28
Nursery Officer                             5           1        1         -          -         20              -        -
Assistant Nursery Officer                   4           1        1         -           -        14              -        -
Estate Manager                              7           -        1         -          -         34              -        -    F
Estate Superintendent                       6           -        1         -          -         27              -        -
Assistant Estate Superindendent             4           -        1         -           -         14             -        -
Field Headmen                               3           -        9         -          -           9-                     -
Medical Assistant/Staff Nurse               4           1        1         -          -         14              -        -
Typist                                      2           2        1         -          1           6             -        6
Clerk                                       2           3        4         1          1           6             6        6
Driver                                      3           3        5         -          -           9             -        -
Messenger                                   1           2        2         -          -           5-                     -
Cleaner                                     1           1        1         -          -          5              -        -
Watchman                                    1           1        2         -          -           5            -         _
Sub-Total                                                                                           42      110
Technical Assistance                                                                                                          -
Resident Engineer                           -           -        -         1          1        200            200      200   a
0
TOTAL                                                                                         242      310   '
1/   Recommended Grade.
January 9, 1980



- 52 -                                     Table T-lh
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
TTA-Headquarter Staff and Annual Cost
Staff    Incremental
Present       Staff
Grade MSU Id    In Post    Required         Unit Cost        Total Coat
---------Tsh'000---------
Position
Management
Executive Chairman                    14               1           -              57
General Manager                       13               1           -              56                 -
Director of Operations                11               -           1              53                53
Director of Marketing                 11               1           -              53                 -
Director of Finance                   11               1           -              53                 -
Development Manager Manpower           9               1           -              49                 -
Chief Internal Auditor                10               1           -              54                 -
Marketing
Marketing Manager                      7               1           -              34                 -
Shipping Manager                      7                1           -              34                -
Marketing Officer                      6               3           -              27                 -
Shipping Officer                      6                4           -              27                -
Warehouse Keeper                       5               -           1              20                20
Driver                                 5               2           3              20                60
Secretary                              5               -           1              20                20
Typist                                 2               1           -               6                 -
Workers (Permanent)                    1               -           2               5                10
Laborers (Temporary)                  -                -           -               3                 -
Finance and Administration
Chief Accountant                     10                1           -              54                _
Senior Economist                      9                1           -              49                -
Company Secretary                     9                1           -              49                -
Financial Accountant                  9                1           -              49                 -
Management Accountant                  9               1           -              49                 -
Assistant Accountant (Financial)    6                  4           -              27
Assistant Accountant Management        6               1           -              11
Cashier                                7               1           -              34                 _
Statistical Officer                   5                1           -              20                _
Administrative Officer                 9               1           -              49                 -
Personal Secretary                     5               1           -              20
Typist                                 2               2           -               6                 -
Clerk (Stores)                         2               1           -               6                 _
Messenger                              1               2           -               5                 -
Cleaner                                1               1           -               5                 -
Watchman                               1               3           -               5                 -
Gardener                               1               2           -               5                 -
Transport Officer                      5               1           -              20                 -
Driver                                 3               3           -               9                 -
Operations
Plantation Superintendent             10               1           -              54                 -
Factory Superintendent                10               -           -              54                 -
Mechanical Engineer                    7               1           -              34                 -
Procurement Officer                    6               1           -              27                 -
Draftsman                              6               -           1              27                27
Secretary/Typist                      5                -          1               20               20
Stores Clerk (Parts)                  2                -          1                6                6
Manpower Development
Assistant                              6               1           -              27                 -
Audit
Assistant Auditor                      6               -           1              27                27
Sub-total                                                                              243
Technical Assistance 2/
Factory Superintendent                 -               1           -             200               200
Chief Engineer                         -               1           -             200               200
TOTAL                                      53          12                              643
1/ Recommended grade.
2/ Chief Engineer will be phased out in Project year 3, and the expatriate Factory Superintendent
will be replaced by the Mechanical Engineer in Project year 5 (para 3.22).
January 9, 1980



TANZANIA                                                   Table T-2
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
1/
Projected TTA 'Without-Project' Consolidated Income Statement
(in current Tsh 'million)
2/
Actual      Projected
1978/79       1979/80      1980/81    1981/82   1982/83       1983/84    1984/85
Net Sales                                   55.5          73.9         76.1        78.1       76.4         79.9        84.8
3/
Cost of Sales and Operating Expenses
Cost of goods sold                          43.7          54.6         59.7        59.9      56.7          58.0        59.9
Depreciation                                 4.5           5.5          5.8         5.7        5.2          5.2         5.2
Selling and administrative
expenses                            20.3          16.0         16.6        17.9       18.5         20.1        21.7
Operating profit                           -13.0          -2.2         -6.0       -5.3       -4.1          -3.3        -1.9
Other income                                 4.5           5.8          7.9         8.6       8.4           7.2         7.7     1
Ul
Total Income                     -8.5           3.6          1.9         3.3        4.3          3.9         5.8
Less Interest                                1.1           6.0          6.6         7.0        7.1          7.1         7.3
Income (loss) before provision of tax    -9.6             -2.4         -4.7       -3.7       -2.8         -3.2        -1.5
1/   Details in Volume II, including the income statement of each factory with a detailed break-down in sales volume,
tea prices, and cost items.
2/   Preliminary factory records and accounts.
3/   Price contingencies on the basis of para. 3.28.
January 15, 1980



- 54 -
Table T-3
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Projected TTA 'With Project' Consolidated Income Statement
(in current Tsh 'million)
PY1         PY2          PY3          PY4         PY5
1980/81     1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85
Net Sales                            92.6        105.3        117.1        130.0        141.8
Cost of Sales and Operating Expenses 2/
Cost of goods sold                   65.8         72.8         76.6         82.6         87.9
Depreciation                          7.8          8.6          9.2          9.7         10.0
Selling and administrative
expenses                       19.0         20.8         21.5        23.6         25.8
Operating profit                      0.0          3.1          9.7         14.1         18.2
Other income                          7.9          8.6          8.4          7.2          7.7
Total Income                7.9        11.7         18.1         21.3         25.9
Less Interest                        10.1         14.6         16.9         18.5         20.0
Income (loss) before provision
for tax                      -2.2         -2.9          1.2          2.8          5.9
1/    Detailed Income Statement of each factory in Tables T-3a-h.
2/    Price contingencies on the basis of para. 3.28.
January 9, 1980



- 55 -
INCOME STATEMENT (with Project)                                 TANZANIA                                        Table T-3a
KATUMBA (RUNGWE)                              SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
000 TSH (current prices)
PROJECT PERIOD (YEAR I THRU YEAR 5)
ACTUAL      (PROJ)     YEAR 1      YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4      YEAR 5
78/79      79/80       eO/81       81/82       82/83       83/84       84/85
FACTORY THROUGHPUT (MT TONS)                     1763.00    2300.00    2200.00    2200.00    2000.00    2000.00    2000.00
LONDON AUCTION (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)         1166.00      920.00      880.00      880.00      800,00     800,00      800.00
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                              15.06      16833       16.00       16.88       17,87       18,92      20.03
REVENUE (TCH)                                   17559.96   15023.60   14080.00   14854.40   14296.00   15136.00   16024.00
DIRECT SALES (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)            266.00      920.00      880.00      880.00      800.00      800.00     800.00
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                              12.39      13.00       13.12       13.84       14.65       15.51       16.43
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                                 3295.74   11960.00   11545.60   12179.20   11720.00   12408.00   13144.00
LOCAL POOL (PROJECTED 20%) (MT TONS)              331.00      460.00      440.00      440.00      400.00     400.00      400.00
PRICE (TSH/KG)                                    9.80       11.90       13.60       14.30       15.20       16.00       17.00
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                               3243.80    5474.00    5984.00    6292.00    6080.00    6400.00    6800.00
*. TOTAL. REVENUE (OOOTSH) ''                   24099.50   32457.60   31609.60   33325.60   32096.00   33944.00   35968.00
11
COST OF GOODS SOLD
GREEN LEAF PRODUCER PRICE PER KG/MT                  7.02       7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05
SMALLHOLDEP SUPPLY MT (TON)                      1763.00    2300.00    2200.00    2200.00    2000.00    2000.00    2000.00
GREEN LEAF ESTATE COST PER KG OF MT                     -          -           -           -           -
ESTATE SUPPLY MT (TON)                                 -           -           -           _           _           _
TRANSPORT COST (TSH/KG MT)                          0.94         1.03       0.64        0.70        0.75        0.81       0.87
-- SUB-TOTAL RAWMATERIALS (OOOTSH) *.         14033.48   18584.00   16918.00   17050.00   15600.00   15720.00   15840.00
DIRECT LABOR (TSH/KG MT)                            0.23        0.25        0.44        0.47        0.57        0.62        0.68
POWER AND FUEL (TSH/KG MT)                          0.74        0.78        0.85        0.92        0.98        1.05        1.13
PACKING MATERIALS (TSH/KG MT)                       0.62        0.68        0.76        0.84        0.91        1.00        1.09
MAINTENANCE OF FACTORY
BUILD. AND MACH. (TSH/KG MT)                      0.25        0.27        0.16        0.18        0.20       0.22        0.24
*- SUB-TOTAL MANUFACTURING (OOOTSH)            3243.92    4554.00    4862.00    5302.00    5320.00    5780.00    6280.00
*  TOTAL COST OF GOODS SOLD (OOOTSH) *.         17277.40   23138.00   217SO,00   22352.00   20920.00   21500.00   22120.00
DEPRECIATION (TSH/KG MT)                             1.09        1.15       1.34        1.34        1.34        1.34        1.34
DEPRECIATION (000 TSH)                            1921.67    2645.00    2948.00    2948.00    2680.00    2680.00    2680.00
SELLING EXPENSES
TRANSPORT FACTORY-PORT (TSH/KG MT)                0.53        0.30        0.33        0.36       0.38        0.41        0.44
OTHER SELLING EXPENSES (ONLY FOR LONDON
& DIRECT SALES) (TSH/KG MT)                     0.73        0.80        0.87        0.94        1.00        1.07       1.14
*t TOTAL SELLING EXPENSES (OOOTSH)               1979.75    2162.00    2257.20    2446.40    2360.00    2532.00    2704.00
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (TSH/KG MT)                 0.82        0.75        0.29        0.30        0.30        0.31       0.33
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (OOOTSH)
1445.66    1725.00      638.00      660.00      600.00      620.00     660.00
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) (OOOTSH)                 1475.02    2787.60    3986.40    4919.20    5536.00    6612.00    7804.00
OPE2AT1NG PROFIT PER KG MT                          0.84        1.21        1.81        2.24        2.77        3.31       3.90
OPEPATING MARGIN OF PROFIT (%)                      6.12        8.59       12.61       14.76       17.25       19.48       21.70
1/     Price contingencies on the basis of para. 3.28.   Green leaf producer price constant.
December 15, 1979



- 56 -
INCOME STA'EMENT (with Project)                                   TANZANIA                                          Table T-3b
MWAXALELI (R,UNGW                              SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
000 TSH (current prices)
PROJECT PERIOD (YEAR I THRU YEAR 5)
ACTUAL      (PROJ)      YEAR i      YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4      YEAR 5
78/79       79/80       80/81       81/a2       82/83       83/84       84/85
FACTORY THROUGHPUT (MT TONS)                                               700.00    1000.00    1377.00    1579.00    1705.00
LONDON AUCTION (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)                                   280.00      400.00      550.80       631.60      682.00
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                                                       16.00       16.88       17.87       18.92       20.03
REVENUE (TSH)                                                             4480.00    6752.00    9842.80   11949.87   13660.46
DIRECT SALES (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)                                     280.00       400.00      550.80      631.60      682.00
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                                                       13.12       13.84       14.65       15.51       16.43
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                                                          3673.60    5536.00    8069.22    9796.12   11205.26
LOCAL POOL (PROJECTED 20%) (MT TONS)                                        140.00     200.00       275.40      315.80      341.00
PRICE (TSH/KG)                                                            13.60        14.30       15.20       16.00       17.00
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                                                        1904.00    2860.00    4186.08    5052.80    5797.00
** TOTAL REVENUE (OOOTSH) **                                             10057.60   15148.00   22098.10   26798.79   30662.72
1/
COST OF GOODS SOLD
GREEN LEAF PRODUCER PRICE PER KG/MT                                           7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05
SMALLHOLDER SUPPLY MT (TON)                                                901.00    1176.00    1373.00    1545.00    1730.00
GREEN LEAF ESTATE COST PER KG OF MT
ESTATE SUPPLY MT (TON)
TRANSPORT COST (TSH/KG MT)                                                   0.83        0.85         0.95        0.98        0.95
-  SUB-TOTAL RAWMATERIALS (OOOTSH)                                      6933.05    9140.80   10987.80   12439.67   13816.25
DIRECT LABOR (TSH/KG MT)                                                      0.78        0.71        0.70        0.72        0.72
POWER AND FUEL (TSH/KG MT)                                                   0.85        0.92         0.98        1.05        1.13
PACKING MAlERIALS (TSH/KG MT)                                                0.76        0.84         0.91        1.00        1.09
MAINTENANCE OF FACTORY
BUILD. AND MACH. (TSH/KG MT)                                               0.08        0.09        0.10         0.11        0.12
.. SUB-TOTAL MANUFACTURING (OOOTSH) **                                  1729.00    2560.00    3704.13    4547.52    5217.30
;* TOTAL COST OF GOODS SOLO (OOOTSH) **                                   8662.05   11700.80   14691.93   16987.19   19033.55
DEPRECIATION (TSH/KG MT)                                                      1.23        1.23        1.23        1.23        1.23
DEPRECIATION (000 TSH)                                                     861.00    1230.00    1693.71        1942.17    2097.15
SELLING EXPENSES
TRANSPORI FACTORY-PORT (TSH/KG MT)                                         0.33        0.36        0.38        0.41        0.44
OTHER SELLING EXPENSES (ONLY FOR LONDON
& DIRECT SALES) (TSH/KG MT)                                              0.87        0.94        1.00         1.07        1.14
*  TOTAL SELLING EXPENSES (OOOTSH) **                                      718.20    1112.00    1624.86    1999.01    2305.16
AOMINISTRA,IVE EXPENSES (TSH/KG MT)                                          0.29        0.29        0.31         0.31        0.32
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (OOOTSH)
203.00      290.00      426.87      489.49      545.60
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) (OOOTSH)                                          -386.65      815.20    3660.73    5380.92    6681.26
OPERATING PROFIT PER KG MT                                                   -0.55       0.82         2.66        3.41        3.92
OPERATING MARGIN OF PROFIT (%)                                               -3.84       5.38        16.57       20.08       21.79
1/     Price contingencies on the basis of para. 3.28. Green leaf producer price constant.
December 15, 1979



- 57 -
INCOME STATEMENT. (with Project)                                  TANZANIA                                         Table T-3c
LUPEMBE (INJ0MBE)
LU----------                                  SMALLROLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
000 TSH (current prices)
PROJECT PERIOD (YEAR I THRU YEAR 5)
ACTUAL      (PROJ)      YEAR 1      YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4      YEAR 5
78/79       79/80       80/81       81/82       82/83       83/84       84/85
FACTORY THROUGHPUT (MT TONS)                      1076.00    1465.00    1557.00    1334.00    1000.00    1000.00    1000.00
LONDON AUCTION (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)           479.00      586.00      622.80      533.60      400.00       400.00      400.00
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                               15.90       15.86       16.40       17.29       18.31       19.39       20.53
REVENUE (TSH)                                     7616.10    9293.96   10213.92    9225.94    7324.00    7756.00    8212.00
DIRECT SALES (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)             327.00      586.00      622.80       533.60     400.00       400.00      400.00
PRICE FOB tAR (TSH/KG)                               12.99       12.95       13.61       14.12       15.41       16.31       17.27
REVENUE (OUOTSH)                                  4247.73    7588.70    8476.31    7534.43    6164.00    6524.00    6908.00
LOCAL POOL (PROJECTED 20%) (MT TONS)               270.00      293.00      311.40      266.80      200.00      200.00       200.00
PRICE (TSH/KG)                                     9.80       11.90       13.60       14.30        15.20       16.00       17.00
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                                2646.00    3486.70    4235.04    3815.24    3040.00    3200.00    3400.00
** TOTAL REVENUE (OOOTSH) *.                     14509.83   20369.36   22925.27   20575.62   16528.00   17480.00   18520.00
1/
COST OF GOODS SOLD
GREEN LEAF PRODUCER PRICE PER KG/MT                   7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05
SMALLHOLDER SUPPLY MT (TON)                       1024.00    1408.00    1478.00    1334.00    1000.00    1000.00    1000.00
GREEN LEAF ESTATE COST PER KG OF MT                  3.05         3.42        3.83                  _-                           -
ESTATE SUPPLY MT (TON)                              52.00       57.00       79.00            -           -           -           -
TRANSPORT COST (TSH/KG MT)                           0.78        0.86        0.67         0.73        0.78       0.84         0.91
- SUB-TOTAL RAWMATERIALS (OOOTSH)  *            8217.08   11381.24   11765.66   10378.52    7830.00    7890.00    7960.00
DIRECT LA8OR (TSH/KG MT)                             0.47        0.51         0.56        0.61        0.66        0.72        0.79
POWER AND FUEL (TSH/KG MT)                           0.98         1.08        1.18        1.27        1.36        1.45        1.55
PACKING MATERIALS (TSH/KG MT)                        0.62        0.68        0.76         0.84       0.91         1.00        1.09
MAINTENANCE OF FACTORY
BUILD. AND MACH. (TSH/KG MT)                       0.32        0.35        0.16        0.18        0.20        0.22        0.24
*' SUB-TOTAL MANUFACTURING (OOOTSH) ''          2571.64    3838.30    4141.62    3868.60    3130.00    3390.00    3670.00
** TOTAL COST OF GOODS SOLD (OOOTSH) **          10788.72   15219.54   15907.28   14247.12   10960.00   11280.00   11630.00
DEPRECIATION (TSH/KG MT)                             0.83        0.83         0_99        0.99        0.99        0.99        0.99
DEPRECIATION (000 TSH)                             893.08    1215.95    1541.43    1320.66         990.00      990.00       990.00
SELLING EXPENSES
TRANSPORT FACTORY-PORT (TSH/KG MT)                 0.52        0.30        0.33        0.36        0.38        0.41        0.44
OTHER SELLING EXPENSES (ONLY FOR LONDON
& DIRECT SALES) (TSH/KG MT)                      0.73        0.80        0.87        0.94        1.00        1.07        1.14
TOTAL SELLING EXPENSES (OOOTSH) *.             1147.90    1377.10    1597.48    1483.41        1180.00    1266.00    1352.00
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (TSH/KG MT)                  0.64        0.70        0.78        0.83        0.72        0.75         0.78
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (OOOTSH)
688.64     1025.50    1214.46    1107.22        720.00      750.00      780.00
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) (OOOTSH)                   991.49     1531.27    2664.62    2417.21    2678.00    3194.00    3768.00
OPERATING PROFIT PER KG MT                           0.92         1.05        1.71        1.81       2.68        3.19         3.77
OPERATING MARGIN OF PROFIT (%)                       6.83        7.52        11.62       11.75       16.20       18.27       20.35
1/     Price contingencies on the basis of para. 3.28.  Green leaf producer price constant.
December 15, 1979



- 58 -
INCOME 5TATEMENT  (with Project)                                  TANZANIA
-----------------                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table T-3d
- -ALA -A -NJOMBE)                            SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
000 TSH (current prices)
PROJECT PERIOD (YEAR i THRU YEAR 5)
ACTUAL      (PROJ)      YEAR 1      YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4      YEAR 5
78/79       79/80       80/81       81/82       82/83       83/84       84/85
FACTORY THROUGHPUT (MT TONS)                                                            300.00      700.00      800.00      874.00
LONDON AUCTION (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)                                                120.00      280.00      320.00      349.60
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                                                                   17.29       18.31       19.39       20.53
REVENUE (TSH)                                                                         2074.80    5126.80    6204.80    7177.29
DIRECT SALES (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)                                                  120.00      280.00      320.00      349.60
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                                                                   15.54       15.41       16.31       17.27
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                                                                       1864.80    4314.80    5219.20    6037.59
LOCAL POOL (PROJECTED 20%) (MT TONS)                                                    60.00       140.00      160.00      174.80
PRICE (TSH/KG)                                                                        14.30       15.20        16.00       17.00
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                                                                     858.00    2128.00    2560.00    2971.60
** TOTAL REVENUE (OOOTSH) *z                               ,                       4797.60   11569.60   13984.00   16186.48
1/
COST OF GOODS SOLD
GREEN LEAF PRODUCER PRICE PER KG/MT                                                       7.05        7.05        7,05        7.05
SMALLHOLDER SUPPLY MT (TON)                                                            200.00      579.00      658.00       711.00
GREEN LEAF ESTATE COST PER KG OF MT                                                       4.21        4.59        5.00        5.45
ESTATE SUPPLY MT (TON)                                                                  100.00      121.00      142.00      163.00
TRANSPORT COST (TSH/KG MT)                                                               0.69         0.78        0.89        0.88
*- SUB-TOTAL RAWMATERIALS (OOOTSH) '-                                               2038.00    5183.34    6060.90    6670.02
DIRECT LABOR (TSH/KG MT)                                                                  1.71        0.94        0.93        0.95
POWER AND FUEL (TSH/KG MT)                                                                1.27        1.36        1.45        1.55
PACKING MATERIALS (TSH/KG MT)                                                             0.84        0.91        1.00        1.09
MAINTENANCE OF FACTORY
BUILD. AND MACH. (TSH/KG MT)                                                           D.09        0.10        0.11        0.12
*  SUB-TOTAL MANUFACTURING (OOOTSH)  *                                              1173.00    2317.00    2792.00    3242.54
.T TOTAL COST OF GOODS SOLD (OOOTSH) *.                                               3211.00    7500.34    8852.90    9912.56
DEPRECIATION (TSH/KG MT)                                                                  1.72        1.72        1.72        1.72
DEPRECIATION (000 TSH)                                                                 516.00    1204.00    1376.00    1503.28
SELLING EXPENSES
TRANSPORT FACTORY-PORT (TSH/KG MT)                                                     0.36        0.38        0.41        0.44
OTHER SELLING EXPENSES (ONLY FOR LONDON
& DIRECT SALES) (TSH/KG MT)                                                          0.94         1.00       1.07         1.14
.s TOTAL SELLING EXPENSES (OOOTSH) *.                                                  333.60      826.00    1012.80    1181.65
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (TSH/KG MT)                                                      0.64         0.60       0.62        0.66
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (OOOTSH)
192.00     420.00      496.00      576.84
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) (OOOTSH)                                                       545-00    1619.26    2246.30    3012.15
OPERATING PROFIT PER KG MT                                                                1.82        2.31        2.81        3.45
OPERATING MARGIN OF PROFIT (%)                                                           11.36       14.00       16.06       18.61
1/     Price contingencies on the basis of para.  3.28.   Green leaf producer price constant.
December 15, 1979



- 59 -
INCOME STATEMENT (with Project)
LUSHOTO (NJOMBF)                                                  TANZANIA                                         Table T-3e
000 TSH  (current prices)                      SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
PROJECT PERIOD (YEAR i THRU YEAR 5)
ACTUAL      (PROJ)      YEAR 1      YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5
78/79       79/80       80/8f       81/82       82/83       83/84       84/85
FACTORY THROUGHPUT (MT TONS)                       1064.00    1079.00    1166.00    1243.00    1298.00    1329.00    1345.00
LONDON AUCTION (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)            567.00      431.60      466.40      497.20      519.20      531.60      538.00
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                               14.18       14.14       15.54       16.39        17.35       18.37       19.45
REVENUE (TSH)                                      8040.06    6102.82    7247.86    8149.11    9008.12    9765.49    10464.10
DIRECT SALES (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)              297.00      431.60      466.40      497.20      519.20       531.60      538.00
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                                8.32       11.77       12.74       13.44        14.23       t5.06       15.95
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                                   2471.04    5079.93    5941.94    6682.37    7388.22    8005.90    8581.10
LOCAL POOL (PROJECTED 20%) (MT TONS)                200.00      215.80      233.20      248.60      259.60      265.80       269.00
PRICE (TSH/KG)                                      9.80       11.90       13.60       14.30       15.20        16.00       17.00
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                                 1960.00    2568.02    3171.52    3554.98    3945.92    4252.80    4573.00
TOTAL REVENUE (OOOTSH) **                     12471.10   13750.78   16361.31    18386.46   20342.26   22024.19   23618.20
1/
COST OF GOODS SOLD
GREEN LEAF PRODUCER PRICE PER KG/MT                   7.04        7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05         7.05        7.05
SMALLHOLDER SUPPLY MT (TON)                        1029.00    1044.00    1131.00    1208.00    1263.00    1294.00    1310.00
GREEN LEAF ESTATE COST PER KG OF MT                   3.05        3.42        3.83        4.21        4.59         5.00        5.45
ESTATE SUPPLY MT (TON)                               35.00       35.00   .  35.00        35.00       35.00        35.00       35.00
TRANSPORT COST (TSH/KG MT)                            0.56        0.62        0.66        0.67        0.69         0.80        0.95
-- SUB-TCTAL RAWMATERIALS (OOOTSH) **           7946.75    8148.88    8877.16    9496.56    9960.42   10360.90   10704.00
DIRECT LABOR (TSH/KG MT)                              0.46        0.51        0.55        0.58        0.62         0.66        0.72
POWER AND FUEL (TSH/KG MT)                            1.10        0.94        1.02        1.10        0.98         1.05        1.13
PACKING MAIERIALS (TSH/KG MT)                         0.63        0.69        0.76        0.84        0.91         1.00        1.09
MAINTENANCE OF FACTORY
BUILD. AND MACH. (T'H/KG MT)                        0.13        0 14        0.16        0.18        0.20        0.22        0.24
#* SUB-TOTAL MANUFACTURING (OOOT H)             2468.48    2460.12    2903.34    3356.10    3517.58    3893.97    4277.10
TOTAL COST OF GOODS SOLD (OOOTSHF   *         10415.23   10609.00   11780.50   12852.66   13478.00   14254.87   14981.10
DEPRECIATION (TSH/KG MT)                              0.75        0.75        1.01        1.01         1.01        1.01 1o01
DEPRECIATION (000 TSH)                              798.00      809.25     1177.66    1255.43    1310.98       1342.29    1358.45
SELLING EXPENSES
TRANSPORT FACTORY-PORT (TSH/KG MT)                  0.18        0.20        0.22        0.24        0.26        0.28        0 20
OTHER SELLING EXPENSES (ONLY FOR LONDON
& DIRECT SALES) (TSH/KG MT)                      0.64        0.70         0.87        0.94        1.00        1.07         1.14
*^ TOTAL SELLING EXPENSES (OOOTSH) *.               744.48      820.04     1068.06     1233.06     1375.88     1509.74      1630.14
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (TSH/KG MT)                   0.40        0.44        0.65        0.67        0.70        0.74         0.80
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (OOOTSH)
425.60      474.76      757.90      832.81      908.60      983.46    1076.00
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) (OOOTSH)                     87.79    1037.73    1577.20    2212.50    3268.80    3933.82    4572.51
OPERATING PROFIT PER KG MT                            0.08        0.96        1.35         1.78       2.52         2.96        3.40
OPERATING MARGIN OF PROFIT (-)                        0.70        7.55        9.64       12.03        16.07       17.86       19 36
1/     Price contingencies on the basis of para.  3.28.   Green leaf producer price constant.
December 15, 1979



- 60 -
INCOME STA-.EMENT (with Project)
BITKORA~~ (BUKOBATANAZANIA                                                                                       Table T-3f
BUKOBA (BUKO )
000 TSH  (current prices)                     SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
PROJECT PERIOD (YEAR 1 THRU YEAR 5)
ACTUAL      (PROJ)     YEAR i      YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4      YEAR 5
78/79      79/80       80/81       81/82       82/83       83/84       84/85
FACTORY THROUGHPUT (MT TONS)                      617.00      774.00      832.00      884.00      925.00      952.00      960.00
LONDON AUCTION (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)           194.00     309.60      332.80      353.60      370.00      380.80      384.00
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                              12.51       13.16      15.54       16.39       17.35       18.37       19.45
REVENUE (TSH)                                    2426.94    4074.34    5171.71    5795.50    6419.50    6995.30    7468.80
DIRECT SALES (PROJECTED 40%) (MT TONS)             228.00     309.60      332.80      353.60      370.00      380.80      384.00
PRICE FOB DAR (TSH/KG)                               8.66       9.10       12.74       13.44       14.23       15.06       15 95
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                                  1974.48    2817.36    4239.87    4752.38    5265.10    5734.85    6124.80
LOCAL POOL (PROJECTED 20%) (MT TONS)                          154.80      166.40      176.80      185.00      190.40      192.00
PRICE (TSH/KG)                                    9.80       11.90       13.60       14.30       15.20       16.00       17.00
REVENUE (OOOTSH)                                           1842.12    2263.04    2528.24    2812.00    3046.40    3264.00
'* TOTAL REVENUE (OOOTSH) "                      4401.42    8733.82   11674.62   13076.13   14496.60   15776.54   16857.60
1/
COST OF GOODS SOLD
GREEN LEAF PRODUCER PRICE PER KG/MT                  7.35       7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05        7.05
SMALLHOLDER SUPPLY MT (TON)                       453.00      553.00      598.00      638.00      667.00      681.00      677.00
GREEN LEAF ESTATE COST PER KG OF MT                  3.05        3.47       3.83        4.21        4.59        5.00        5.45
ESTATE SUPPLY MT (TON)                             164.00     221.00      234.00      246.00      258.00      271.00      283.00
TRANSPORT COST (TSH/KG MT)                           1.08        1.19       0.66        0.68        0.70        0.78        0.78
-- SUB-TOTAL RAWMATERIALS (OOOTSH) *           4496.11    5586.58    5661.24    6134.68    6534.07    6898.61    7064.00
DIRECT LABOR (TSH/KG MT)                             0.31                   0.69        0.72        0.76        0.81        0.88
POWER AND FUEL (TSH/KG MT)                           0.27       0.71        0.78        0.84        0.90        0.96        1.03
PACKING MATERIALS (TSH/KG MT)                       0.36        0.41        0.76        0.84        0.91        1.00        1.09
MAINTENANCE OF FACTORY
BUILD. AND MACH. (TSH/KG MT)                      0.25        0.27        0.16        0.18        0.20        0.22        0.24
es SUB-TOTAL MANUFACTURING (OOOTSH) **          734.23    1075.86    1988.48    2280.72    2562.25    2846.48    3110.40
** TOTAL COST OF GOODS SOLD (OOOTSH) **          5230.34    6662.44    7649.72    8415.40    9096.32    9745.09   10174.40
DEPRECIATION (TSH/KG MT)                             0.59       0.59        0.80        0.80        0.80        0.80        0.80
DEPRECIATION (000 TSH)                            364.03      456.66      665.60      707.20      740.00      761.60      768.00
SELLING EXPENSES
IRANSPORI FACTORY-PORT (TSH/KG MT)                2.98        1.80        0.72        0.78        0.83        0.89       0.95
OTHER SELLING EXPENSES (ONLY FOR LONDON
& DIRECT SALES) (TSH/KG MT)                     0.51        0.56        0.87        0.94        1.00        1.07        1.14
*# TOTAL SELLING EXPENSES (OOOTSH) **            2053.88    1739.95    1178.11    1354.29    1507.75    1662.19    1787.52
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (TSH/KG MT)                  1.19        1.04       1.17        1.21        1.26        1.33        1.44
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (OOOTSH)
________________________________
734.23     804.96      973.44    1069.64    1165.50    1266.16    1382.40
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) (OOOTSH)                -3981.06    -930.20    1207.75    1529.60    1987.03    2341.50    2745.28
OPERATING PROFIT PER KG MT                          -6.45       -1.20       1.45        1.73        2.15        2.46        2.86
OPERATING MARGIN OF PROFIT (%)                     -90.45     -10.65       10.35       11.70       13.71       14.84       16.29
1/     Prince contingencies on the basis of para. 3.28.  Green leaf producer price constant.
December 15, 1979



- 61 -
TANZANIA                                      Table T-4
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Projected TTA 'With-Project' Cash Flow
1/
(in current Tsh million)
PYI         PY2          PY3          PY4          PY5
1980/81     1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net income (loss)                    -2.2         -2.9          1.2          2.8          5.9
Add back depreciation charge          7.8          8.6          9.2          9.7         10.0
GOT loan for factory, vehicles
and fuelwood plantation          45.5         11.4          6.7          2.6          0.9
Total                     51.1         17.1         17.1         15.1         16.8
USE OF FUNDS
Additions to plant and
equipment                       54.8         13.8          8.0          3.2         1.1
Principal repayments on
credit 287-TA                                 0.7          1.3          1.3         1.3
Total                     54.8         14.5          9.3          4.5          2.4
Increase (decrease) in
working capital               -3.7          2.6          7.8        10.6         14.4
_/  Price Contingencies an-the basis-of-para. 3.28.
January 9, 1980



Table T-5
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Government Cash Flow Projection
(in current Tsh million) 1/
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4         Year 5
1980/81       1981/82       1982/83       1983/84        1984/85       1985/86
Sources of Funds
IDA Credit Disbursement            16.6           40.7          27.4          15.8          11.6            4.1
NORAD                                             13.3
Loan Interest from TTA + TRDB        1.3           4.9           8.4          10.2           11.3          11.9
Total                    17.9          58.9          35.8          26.0           22.9          16.0
Uses of Funds                                                                                                           0
Tea Road Program                    11.3          18.2           1.6           1.7            1.9           2.1
Farmers Credit (thru TRDB)           2.2           2.3           1.6           0.2            0.2
Tea Factory Program (thru TTA)   57.0             28.9          16.8          10.7            9.2
IDA Service Charge                                 0.1           0.4           0.6            0.7           0.8
Repayments to IDA
Total                      -           49       .    20.4          13.*           12.0           2.9
Surplus (Deficit)                  (52.6)          9.4          15.4          12.8           10.9          13.1
1/ Price contingencies on the basis of para 3.28.
May 9, 1980



- 63 -                  Table T-6
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements -
CUSs '000)
Bank Group
FY and Quarter           Quarterly Disbursement             Cumulative Disbursement
FY81    Qi                             0                                 0
Q2                             0                                 0
Q3                        1,000                              1,000
Q4                        1,000                              2,000
FY82    Q1                         1,000                             3,000
Q2                        1,500                              4,500
Q3                        1,200                              5,700
Q4                        1,200                              6,900
FY83    Qi                         1,200                             8,100
Q2                        1,000                              9,100
Q3                          600                              9,700
Q4                          500                             10,200
FY84    Q1                           500                            10,700
Q2                          500                             11,200
Q3                          500                             11,700
Q4                          400                             12,100
FY85    Ql                           400                            12,500
Q2                          400                             12,900
Q3                           300                            13,200
Q4                           300                            13,500
FY86    Ql                           300                            13,800
Q2                          300                             14,000
1/  This schedule assumes that the Credit would become effective in July.1980
and would close on December 31, 1985.
January 9, 1980



Table T-7
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Impact of Project
(in current Tsh million) 1/
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3         Year 4         Year 5
1980/81       1981/82       1982/83        1983/84        1984/85       1985/86
Foreign Exchange Inflow
IDA Credit                        16.6          40.7           27.4          15.8           11.6            4.1
Incremental Export Sales           8.2          16.0           27.2          33.7           39.8           43.5
Total                  24.8          56.7           54.6          49.5           51.4           47.6
=    =                          _
Foreign Exchange Outflow
0'
Project Capital Cost              33.0           26.8           5.9            1.9           0.6            0.6
Project Recurrent Cost             2.8            3.1           4.6           5.2            6.0            6.2
Total                  35.8          29.9           10.5           7.1            6.6            6.8
Net F.E. Savings (losses)
before debt service           (11.0)         26.8           44.1          42.4           44.8           40.8
Less - IDA debt service                           0.1           0.4           0.6            0.7            0.8
Net F.E. Savings (losses)        (11.0)          26.7          43.7          41.8           44.1           40.0
Cumulative Net F.E. Savings
(losses)                      (1,0)          15.7           59,4         101.2          145.3         185.3
1/ Price contingencies on the basis of para 3.28.
May 9, 1980



- 65 -
TANZANIA                            Table T-8
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
TTA Comparative Balance Sheets from 1976/77 to 1971/72 (to June 30)
1977      1976       1975       1974      1973       1972
ASSETS
Fixed assets                 7,492     6,429      5,763      5,415     3,342      2,413
Investments-factories      32,449    33,242    28,205    22,720    20,994         8,501
Loan to TTSDO                1,277     1,665      2,026      2,026        ---       ---
Investment-estates
development              4,112      3,088        ---        ---       ---        ---
Stores                      1,618        713        946        439         35       110
Trade debtors                2,945     3,801      3,084      8,472     3,968      6,503
Staff debtors                  528     1,135        677        541       244        ---
Cash and bank               4,092      6,357        478        148     2,271        869
Total                 54,513    56,430    41,179    39,761    30,854    18,396
- S    ==s=== ======    =====    =-e===       =w=====
LIABILITIES
Government loans             6,880     6,880      6,880      6,880     6,880        ---
TRDB (IDA loans)           34,554    32,804    21,892    13,054        5,293        ---
Retained funds 1/            9,566    11,468      9,944    18,417    17,960    18,092
Interest payable            1,368      1,262        818        418       ---        ---
Trade creditors             2,145      2,402      1,645        992        721       304
Bank overdraft                 ---     1,614        ---        ---       ---        ---
Total                 54,513    56,430    41,179    39,761    30,854    18,396
1/ Accumulated net annual surpluses on current account.
January 9, 1980



Table T-9
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Estimated Yield (kg/MT/kg) from Year of Planting
Year             1       2      3      4      5       6      7      8       9      10      Mature
Rungwe           -      -      125    222    319    416    513    610    707    804           900
Njoube           -       -     125    234    343    452    561    670    779    888         1,000
Bukoba           -      -      125    184    243    302    361    420    479    538           600
Lushoto          -       -     125    210    294    378    462    546    630    714           800
Hectares Planted 1/
Year             1       2      3      4      5       6      7      8       9      10      Mature       Total    0
Rungwe           -      -       -     256    571    766    438    818    221    254           711       4,035
Njombe           -       40     -     154    163    221      58     72    135    167          828       1,838
Bukoba           -      -       -     103     34    305    228    208    105       46         582       1,611
Lushoto 2/       -      -       -      21     97    206    313    281    108    180           466       1,672
Annual Production (kg) - Hectares X Yield to Match Actual
1977/78 Production
Estimated             Actual
Rungwe            1,947,726            1,895,039
Njombe            1,243,978            1,208,488
Bukoba              650,106              611,668
Lushoto             978,188            1,081,051
1/ Source: TTA records.
2/ Excluding Korogwe (590 ha).



Table T-10
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Returns to Farmers in Niombe Area (Tsh)
Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Mature
Yield G.L. kg/ha          625     1,170      1,715      2,260     2,805      3,350     3,895      4,440       5,000
Price/kg 1/              1.10      1.10       1.10       1.10      1.10       1.10      1.10       1.10        1.10
Gross Returns             687     1,287      1,886      2,486     3,085      3,685     4,284      4,484       5,500
Production Costs 2/        40        40         40         40        40         40        40         40          40
Net Returns               647     1,247      1,846      2,446     3,045      3,645     4,244      4,444       5,460
Net Returns/0.4 ha        259       499        738        978     1,218      1,458     1,698      1,778       2,184
Returns/manday 3/         2.5       4.8        7.1        9.4      11.7       14.0      16.3       17.1        21.0
1/ After deduction of loan repayment of 40 cts/kg.
2/ Tools, etc.
3/ Mandays - 260 days/ha.



Table T-11
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Illustrative Farm Budget (Niombe)
-------   Without Project----------   ------------With Project------------
Crops                            Crop Area   Labor Input   Net Income   Crop Area   Labor Input   Net Income
(Ha)      (Mandays)        (Tsh)          (Ha)      (Mandays)         (Tsh)
Tea 1/                               -            -                -          0.4            104           2,184
Maize 2/                            1.5          259            2,640          1.0           175           1,760
Beans 31                            0.3           31              270         0.3             31             270
Total Net Income                    1.8          290            2,910          1.7           310           4,214
Net Income/Manday                                               10.0                                       13.6
00
1/ Tea at maturity.
2/ Under improved cultivation techniques.
3/ At a yield of 450 kg/ha; selling price Tsh 2.0/kg.
January 11, 1980



Table T-12
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Hectare Budgets for Tea and Maize (Njombe)
Tea             ---------Maize----------
(Mature)         Traditional        Improved
Production
Yield (kg/ha)                    5,000 1!            1,000           2,000
Producer Price (Tsh/kg)          1.10  2/            1.0             1.0
Gross Income (Tsh)               5,500               1,000           2,000
Costs (Tsh)
Seed                               -                    25              60
Fertilizer                                              -              140
Insecticide                                                             30
Tools, etc.                         40                  -               10
Total Costs                            40                  25              240
Net Income                          5,460                 975           1,760
Labor Mandays                         260                 127              175
Income/Manday                       21.0                  7.7           10.0
1/ Green leaf.
2/ After deduction of fertilizer charge, etc.
January 11, 1980



Table T-13
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Farm Labor Profiles (Niombe)
July   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Jan.   Feb.   March   April   May   June   Total
I.  Crop Labor Profile
(Mandays/ha)
Tea (Mature)                  15     15      15      25      30     20      25      25     25       25       25    25      260
Maize (Improved)               -     30      35      15      15      15     15       -     10       25       15     -      175
Beans                          -      3       3       7       -      -       -       3      7       23       46    10      102
II. Illustrative Farm Labor
Profiles (Mandays)
A. Without Project
Maize (1.5 ha)            -      45     52       22      22     22      22      -      15       37      22      -      259
Beans (0.3 ha)            _       1      1        2       -      -       -      1       2        7      14      3       31
Total                 -     46      53       24     22      22     22       1      17      44       36      3     290
Labor Availability       45      45     45       45      45     45      45     45      45       45      45    45       540
B. With Project
Tea (0.4 ha)              6       6      6       10      12      8      10     10      10       10      10      6      104
Maize (1.0 ha)            -      30     35       15      '5     15      15      -      10       25      15      -      175
Beans (0.3 ha)            -       1      1                       _              1       2       1        4              31
Total                 6      37     42       27     27      23     25      11      22      42       39      9     qi n
Labor Availability       45      45     45       45      45     45      45     45      45       45      45    45      540
1/ On the basis of 1 man, his wife and 2 children of working age.
Labor - 24 manday from man, 24 x 0.7 manday from wife, 4 manday x 0.5 for each child.
January 11, 1980



TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
D aof Financial  FlIn CrTr a/t gTen. nisa T d Economic E n 1979 Ctonstan  Trr  )
Landon  .                                                                                   I                                                                       II                                                             III
Aac t ion
Cot-         Caccent                                                   TTA L-ndon A.ctio- Solon Prceso                                                  TTA   Dict Slae  Prices                                      TTA local Pool Pri-no
Actual                       coat  1977   US0                 C-co  Tear       R-nowr                 Nibe                  pnponde               Bkoba                Runowe                  Niopbe              Mnondc                   Bukobo           All      Foctories
USt- /LKg  - /Kg Tsh/Kg                        p          E          F          E          F          E          F          E          F          c          F           E          F          E          F           E          F       E
1977                           268.7       268,7   22.30       Actol
1978                           190.0       218.9   18.16
1979 (Ja-o.ry -April)          173.2       216.5   17.96        1978/79      13.80       -         14.65       -         13.36       -         9.02         -        11.13        -         11.74       -         7.50        -         5.17         -         9.80     -
Pro-ic-td                                                      Projected
1980                           151.2       200,6  1.64         1980/81      14.80      12.80      15.20      12.80      14.45      12.80      13.95       12.30      11.92      10.90      12.41      10.90      11.65      10.90       11.15      10.50      13.60  12.80
1981                           150.8       211.9   17.58        1981/82      15.50      12.98      15.99      12.60      15.21      12.80      14.67       1 12.30   12.54      10.98       12.92      10.90      12.26      10.90      11.72       10.50      14.30  12.80
1982                           150.4       224.0   18.59        1982/83      16.49      12.20      16.93      12.30      16.09       12.20      15.52      11.70      13.27      10.40      14.03      10.50      12.97      10.40       12.40      10.00      15.20  12.00
1983/84      17.44      12.20      17.91      12.30      17.02      12.20      16.41      11.70      14.03      10.40       14.83      10.50      13.71      10.40      13.10       10.00      16.00  12.00 )
1985                           149.0       264.3   21.93        1984/85      18.45      12.10      18.95      12.20      18.01      12.10      17.36       11.60     14.85       10.30      15.69      10.40      14.51      10.30       13.86       9.90      17.00  12.00
1985/86-
86/87       -         12.10       -        12 .20        -        12.10         -       11.60         _       10.30         -        10.40        -        10.30       -           9.90        _    11.90
1990                           147.9       335.1   27.81        1987/88 4
Onwards        -         12.00        -        12.10         -        12.00        -        11.50        -        10.20        -        10.30         -        10.20        -         9.80         _    11.90
1/     IBRD Conosoditlr  and Eoport Frojectiona  Mictaloo, Moy 1979
March 27,1980



TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Break-Down of Financial Selling Costs of Made Tea (Tsh/Kg. in Current Terms) for Use in Income Statements
1978/79       1980/81       1981/82       1982/83        1983/84           1984/85
I.   Transport Factory-Port Warehouse
Rungwe                                                    0.53          0.33          0.36           0.38           1.41              0.44
Njombe                                                    0.52         0.33          0.36            0.38           0.41              0.44
Mponde                                                    0.18          0.22          0.24           0.26           0.28              0.30
Bukoba                                                    2.98         0.72          0.78            0.83           0.89              0.95
II. Port Costs
Warehousing                                               0.14
Transport to Wharf                                        0.08
Palletizing and Loading                                   0.18
Shipping Charges                                          0.13
Export Tax                                                0.15
Miscellaneous Charges                                     0.05
Sub-Total                                            0.73         0.87          0.94           1.00            1.07             1.14
III. Freight and London Costs
Freight,Insurance and Prepaid Charge                      0.025
Sales Charges                                             0.006
Warehousing                                               0.85
Brokerage and Agency                                      0.46
Sub-Total                                            1.34         1.58          1.70           1.82            1.95             2.09
Total (I + II + III)
Rungwe                                                    2.60         2.78           3.00           3.20           3.43              3.67
Njombe                                                    2.59          2.78          3.00           3.20           3.43              3.67      
Mponde                                                    2.25         2.67           2.88           3.08           3.30              3.53            m
Bukoba                                                    5.05         3.17           3.42           3.65           3.91              4.18
March  26,1980



TANZANIA                                                                                                                Table T-16
SMALLEOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Finncial Rate of Return on TTA Iev-teent-
(in noaent Teh 'dillon)
PY          I            2            3            4            5          6            7            8            9           10           11           12           13           14           15           16             17-30
1980/81     1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85    1985/86       1986/87      1987/88     1988/89      1989/90      1990/91      1991/92      1992/93      1993/94      1994/95      1995/96      1997-2009/l1
COST
CAPITAL
Factory                            65.1         15.9          3.5          .8            -           -            -            -            -            -            -           -            -            -             -        65.1       fa or 1-15
Vehicles                            9.1          1.1          1.3          .5           .2         9.1          1.1          1.3           .5          .2          9.1          1.1          1.3           .5           .2          9.1       as fEc 1-15
Foelnoad establishmcnt               .4           .8           .9           .8          .5
Tna stablishmnnt                    3.4          4.3          1.0            -            -
Physical aantingencles              7.8          2.2           .7           .2          .1          .9           .1           .1            -          -             .9          .1           .1            -            -          7.4
Sob-Total                 85.8         24.3          7.4          2.3          .8        10.0          1.2          1.4           .5           .2         10.0          1.2          1.4          .5           .2         81.6
RECURRENT
Cren loaf pucehase                  4.2          7.3         11.1        12.2         12.8        13.3         13.8         14.2         14.5         14.8        15.1         15.3         15.4         15.4         15.4         15.4            15.4
Green loaf tcanspoct                 .7          1.1          1.7         1.9          2.1         2.2          2.2          2.3          2.3          2.4          2.4         2.4          2.5          2.5          2.5           2.5            2.5
Builfdlgs and macsinsey              ,1           .1           .2          .2           .2          .2           .3           .3           .3          .3           .3           .3           .3           .3           .3           .3             .3
Power and fuel                       .5          1.1          1.9         2.1          2.4         2.5          2.6          2.7          2.7         2.8          2.8          2.9          2.9          2.9          2.9          2.9            2.9
Packtng mafetial                     .5           .9          1.4         1.7          1.8         1.9          2.0          2.1          2.1         2.1          2.2          2,2          2.2          2.3          2.7          2.2            7.2
Staff                               2.0          2.7          2.7         2.4          2.2         1.8          1.8          1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9          1.9          1.9          1.9          1.9          1.9            1.9
Poelsanod plancation                 .1         .1            .2           .3          _3           .3           3            .3        _3 .3                       .3           ,3           .3           .3           .3           ,3
Sub-Total                  8.1         13.3         19.2         20.8        21.8        22.2         23.0         23.8         24.1         24.6        25.0         25.3          25.5        25.5          25.5         25.5           25.5
TOTAL                 93.9         37.6         26,6         23.1        22.6        32.2         24.2         25.2         24.6         24.8        35.0         26.5         26.9         26.0         25.7        107.1
BENEFITS
Tea sales                          12.0         19.1         28.0        32.0         34.9        36.1         37.3         38.2         38.7        39.4         40.1         40.6         40.9         40.9         40.9         40.9           40.9
Net Benefits                        -81.9        -18.5          1.4         8.9         12.3         3.9         13.1         13.0         14.1        14.6          5.1         14.1         14,0         14.9         15.2        -66.2
Intcecal Financial Rate of Retu- = 62.



TANZANIA                                                                 Table 17
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Economic Costs                                    Economic Benefits                                        Net Benefits
Incremental       Quality          Savings in
Capital      Recurrent       Total          Production        Effect        Transportation Cost    Total
-        - Tsh 'million --------            -------------------- Tsh 'million ----------------------
Py
1  1980/81               102              6          108               12               5                   -                  17              -91
2    81/82                42             10           52               21               6                   -                  27               -25
3    82/83                 8             15           23               34               6                   2                  42                19
4    83/84                 3             17           20               38                6                  2                  48                28
5    84/85                 1             18           19               44                6                  2                  52                33
6    85/86                11             18           29               46                6                  2                  54                25
7    86/87                 1             19           20               47                6                  2                  55                35
8    87/88                 2             19           21               49               6                   2                  57                36
9    88/89                 -             20           20               50                6                  2                  58                38
10   89/90                 -             20           20               51               6                   2                  59                39
11   90/91                11             20           31               52               6                   2                  60                29
12   91/92                 1             21           22               53               6                   2                  ol                39
13   92/93                 1             21           22               53               6                   2                  61                39
14   93/94                 -             21           21               53               6                   2                  61               40
15   94/95                 -             21           21               53               6                   2                  61               40
16   95/96                94             21          115               53               6                   2                  61              -54
17   96/97                21             21           42               53               6                   2                  61                19
18   97/98                 5             21           26               53               6                   2                  61                35
19   98/99                 1             21           22               53               6                   2                  61                39
20   99/2000               -             21           21               53               6                   2                  61               40
21   00/01                10             21           31               53               6                   2                  61                30
22   01/02                 1             21           22               53               6                   2                  61                39
23   02/03                 1             21           22               53               6                   2                  61                39
24   03/04                 -             21           21               53               6                                      61               40
25   04/05                 -             21           21               53               6                   2                  61               40
26   05/06                10             21           31               53               6                   2                  61               30
27   06/07                 1             21           22               53               6                   2                  61               39
28   07/08                 l             21           22               53               6                   2                  61               39
29   08/09                 -             21           21               53               6                   2                  61               40
30   09/10                 -             21           21               53               6                   2                  61               40
Internal Economic Rate of Return = 21%
January 9, 1980



- 75 -                            Table T-18
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Volume II
ANNEXES
I. FACTORY DEVELOPMENT
1.  General
2.  Crop Projections
3.  Factories - Rungwe
4.  Factories - Niombe
5.  Bukoba Factory
6.  Mponde Factory
7.  Engineers - Terms of Reference
8.  Manufacturing or Processing
9.  Fuelwood Requirements
Tables
1.  Analysis of Coal Samples
2.  Katumba - Factory Requirements
3.  Mwakaleli - Factory Requirements
4.  Lupembe - Factory Requirements
5.  Ukalawa - Factory Requirements
6.  Bukoba - Factory Requirements
7.  Mponde - Factory Requirements
8.  Cost Summary
II.  TEA PRODUCTION
1.  Tea Areas, Climate and Soils
2.  Smallholder and Estate Tea Development
3.  Tea Production
4.  Planting Program
5.  Input Requirements
6.  Yield Projections
7.  Production Projections
8.  Incremental Production
9. Returns to Farmers
10. Returns from Other Crops
11. Research
12. Extension Service



- 76 -
Table of Contents (Volume II) - Con't
Tables
1. Average monthly and annual rainfall in tea areas
2. Tea Production on TTA and Private Estates
3. Hectarages, Farm Size and Number of Smallholders
& TTA Estates
4. Planting Program and Nursery Costs
5. Tea V.P. Nursery - Operation Costs
6. Fertilizer Rates and Prices
7. Fertlizer Requirements and Costs
8. Estimated Yield from Year of Planting
9. Estimated Tea Production
10. Returns to Farmers from Tea and Coffee
III.  ROAD CONSTRUCTION
1. Tea Roads - Construction
2. Tea Roads - Maintenance
3. Road Consultants - Terms of Reference
Tables
1. Selected Roads for Construction Under the Project
2. Costs and Phasing
IV.  COST TABLES AND RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
1.  Project Cost Summary
2.  Annual Project Cost - Katumba (Rungwe)
3.  Annual Project Cost - Mwakaleli (Rungwe)
4.  Annual Project Cost - Lupembe (Njombe)
5.  Annual Project Cost - Ukalawa (Njombe)
6.  Annual Project Cost - Mponde
7.  Annual Project Cost - Bukoba
8.  Annual Project Cost - TTA Headquarter
9.  TTA Consolidated Income Statement (Without Project)
10.  Katunba Income Statement (Without Project)
11. Lupembe Income State (Without Project)
12. Mponde Income Statement (Without Project)
13. Bukoba Income Statement (Without Project)
14.  Phasing of Vehicle Requirements and Cost - Katumba (Rungwe)
15.  Phasing of Vehicle Requirements and Cost - Mwakaleli (Rungwe)
16.  Phasing of Vehicle Requirements and Cost - Lupembe (Njombe)
17.  Phasing of Vehicle Requirements and Cost - Ukalawa (Njombe)
18.  Phasing of Vehicle Requirements and Cost - Mponde (Lushoto)
19.  Phasing of Vehicle Requirements and Cost - Bukoba (Bukoba)
20.  Phasing of Vehicle Requirements and Cost - TTA Headquarter
21.  Phasing of Fuelwood Requirements and Cost
22.  Phasing of Farmers Credit



- 77 -
Table of Contents (Volume II) - Con't
23.  Phasing of Incremental Factory Staff and Cost - Mwakaleli (Rungwe)
24.  Phasing of Incremental Factory Staff and Cost - Ukalawa (Njombe)
25.  Phasing of Incremental Factory Staff and Cost - Katumba (Rungwe),
Mponde (Lushoto) and Bukoba (Bukoba)
26.  Phasing of Incremental General Staff and Cost - Lupembe (Njombe)
and Bukoba
27.  Phasing of Incremental General Staff and Cost - Lupembe and Bukoba
(Njombe)
28. General Staff - Mponde
29. General STaff - Bukoba
30.  Phasing of Incremental Staff Requirements and Cost - TTA Headquarter
31.  Economic and Financial Rate Price of Green Leaf
32. Financial Rate of Return - Rungwe
33. Financial Rate of Return - Njombe
34. Financial Rate of Return - Mponde
35. Financial Rate of Return - Bukoba
36. Economic Rate of Return - Rungwe
37. Economic Rate of Return - Niombe
38. Economic Rate of Return - Mponde
39. Economic Rate of Return - Bukoba
40. Sensitivity Analysis
41. Financial Cost and Benefits Streams in Current Prices
42. Financial Cost and Benefits Streams with Foreign
Exchange Weights



WAIO0Ay"t  -  04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 70  -~~~~~~~~  8                                                      -                     lORD 14083~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD146
F RWANZXA                                                                        N~~~~~~~~~~~~YA
R  W  A                                                     ~-             
F ~~~~~~y7N07AOI ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~QFC2-  ~~~~~~~~  j    ~ ~ ~~~ N-                                                             TANDAK A~~~~Zk!9-
007 OSEKE   I (It  ~~~~~t'   ~~  ~                                                        87AoCOo E.,T                                        NO7-N
*-33                                                                              70010700                          -3         o~sss.  CEA
r                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANZANtA
SMALLHOLDER TEA
-                                           387  K7~~~~~~-P ~~~         CO~NSOLIDATION  P'ROJECT
4;                                                                                                  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOCATION
Ym-  >'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      4 ~~~~~LSE-io,og Tee Areo
/                                                                                                                    07078700$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
N.o.I w koy-s i-
-~~~~~~~  As.                                                                                                                 o,717~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  iA
INDi,A N  C),FA N
dr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
Il                                                            M   ZAMBIQUE






TANZANIA                                                                                                               R            L\  ,
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
4./5eb,O                                         Rungwe Area                                                                                                                        TANZANIA
Ru                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~    ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MwokoIiele  RA
<?-_\ /-<) ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                               A   FA C   | a>TO R 
.  \  r   .  Mbotwo                                                          L -.  O7 \
Sh urci                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th,S -N, h-s baaa, p,~,d by
/ , . Ndulilo                                                            Jh. - .Of   ja .   hoKsebe YaMasebeh, 0 mM s- >-hp.sptreed b                     d    tfl
Z /  /;- j    ~~~langara            |J        |u ma                                                                     z                     A           do -otI-pl, -t Ih. .,I t f the
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~e *b gil //g- .*~                                                                                                                 IgUMA tede -biil  - &
wa     E                                    TEA FA
i / } . \ ) \U ~~p            s                                                                          Mi  1Ks ;               AEUtyGREsio   L wa ngwycr  yl
S. ~~~~~~ET                    EA             SAE\E                                                              CNOAINRGA
t~~~~~~~y               Qh;*.-\\JINiLLN RGAMLIT
0 ' 2 3 4 5 Le~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p                                        e r S tlmnd o\<  IVR
M I L E S                                    t                                                                                                                            t-f~~~~~~~~~~~gePa
K~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T BE IM ROE UNE TH PREROSJECT_t






I ______________________________                                                                                             I BRD   14085
"UQANDA  SOIAALl                      U.                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRtL 1979
~~~' ~       KE9NYA
NSeD.  N | o 4    \ush sha            .         i
TANZANIA N I Ao
ZAIRE                                                   \
Z A h*B I A      g                                t   
_ MOZAM9C       Kaishaza.i   J
rfflidi0 0,m*sfevvfnu0vOr0)0                                     @/ 
7h\ cm         Kan o h  d oI         le nca
as  n ewec tzsa  c             /  a  z  /
Kalama        v     fas mg
<   g ez                 O    4~~Muez
Kahororo                V                 T C  O   R  / A
(Rwamas aye 
Kab;e.-. 9        -   '\BUKOBA
I/hwa.~         Busil  be 
*                       K
TEA OBA  R/ i/A RE
FACTORY')         ORS
"*Y   Mari u
Koterero
* }    l)Kanyana'e   \ sRuija              TANZANIA
Kanazi                                                 SMALLHOLDER TEA
CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Bukoba Area
OMUZ US/IAN A  
SWAMP
\ q      /   ~Kawalind
1\XMuhutt e       w       a                                     ROADS REQUIRED FOR GREENLEAF COLLECTION
-         >   /     /    >All Weather
L\.                                                   J  Improved Under The First Project
To Be tmproved Under The Project
E P V   Qba   I                                              Other Roads
QcJ tuslbc | tX g ~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
j******                                       F *--11 i  S L _ _Forest Reserve
gzIQO* *>/ 1 /   (t   j               *      Existing Stollholder Foctory
Z  .-[  .   >>   j         CONSOLIDATION PROGRAM
IZ~~   let)  Irfillmg Program Lim-ts
Kato te                                          KATOKE  Schere Ncme
:\ Kim bugu                |
I               ~~~~MILES                  t
E   ~~~~~~~~~~~05                                                      to             t5
**    0                                                         I OS                         10ij'
KII-mlO TR
osekera \                                                                            tTERS






-, DOAlIDA aI B R D    14086R
'KENAt If. mtol Y A                                                                 t                                                                         y   .................... MAY   1980
D4,,N    >,oe>_                                                                                                                ................\
TtNANI A                 8KALAWA                                                                                                         K                               \tl
ZARE;>   ronyL                   )ouer) i-O5h
I    AMRIA
\'4t    32<4MALAklsAaliEi2/                                          0           .     
.             w    X   .    ~~U K A.' LA W A/                                                                                          -
mrsP npeeh beel prepared by the
the rep?rf to toh irhsr r artanhrd                                     "*               -
hredtet-t-a,nt -ssed and the
deo idnnpy. on ti5 pert of tne/
Weryd Bask end, teafdt- ay
jokpnntttr on the hfaBe stat-us OJf
an trrtteprn Or tany endorsement/              /
onacepri f''- sht /nde
To Njrzmbe/                                       \        -Iaooo /t                                              K       g*N            D       ;
(E Srar]zr) B r                                                  .     :)
ff           _      K     i h       a     n     g~~Kiang                                                                                          ;o  X r
TANZANIA                            Ihano                                                                          frih.
SMALLHOLDER TEA
CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Lupembe Area
< / / *: ~~~~MFRIKA /  
X   ;o   X          X                      *.~~~~~~ TEA ESTATE, 
M S  /                     i  ~~~~~Mgororo i       
Lu     n    uo ..................                                           V  rlAf4
ROADS REQUIRED FOR GREENLEAF COLLECTION 
All Weother
......... ....mPrOots Unde, The Fst Pro1scl
To Re Improved ULder Thi Ptoiect
Other Roods
........... Footpaths
L*f    Fors0t Re,erye
*       E-rtf,og Srollholde, F.ctory
4       Pnoposed Lowatnso of Pl-nsed Smalllolder Factory
PLANTING  AND CONSOLIDATION  PROGRAM
cz     8   Pl-ontirg atd Ilnfilmig Prog_9   L_0 t
IKINDA   Sche-e Norte



I



IBRD 14087
APRIL 1978
M to                  Mgwoshi
i3AGA i    \    / I
FOREST RESERVE>/   I
KisangoIa a              (
/Milo   -/ -                                                  KtSiMA-GONJA ~
/   /~ \1      /      SAGA-1i                             /  FOREST
FOREST  RESERVE                           RESERVE
Ngashele        N                     aMzumbai
Sonii /                          t (          )      /           \      ,        5 Mbula
To ___:g)  \/  r 
-5,(                          MPONDE -BUMBULI   Bumbuli u
*,   /  .......MA  4(wondimvumo    <Ft
*                    ~~~~~MPALALNA
' \                            / FOREST RES.
*.At WEST -Goma. )    Tomnato
FORESY                                                    EAST
/BALANGAIES
RESER \                           vui\7         FOREST RESERVE
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA
CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
LUSHOTO AREA
T  //                w                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIGOMBNI;
un u<                                                 RESERV 
Kwashemshi                   ROADS REQUIRED FOR GREENLEAF COLLECTION
4 F k ......... *Improved Under The First Proect
To Be Irnproved Under The Proievt
Other Rvods
(-     a~SQ a Rivers
Forest Reserves
SCXAotA                                                       it       Evistrig Smaliholder Fcto,ry
OANDA        K NYA       I                                                                    CONSOLIDATION PROGRAM
er ~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~ZZJ  le~~~~~~~~~~~If,il,nrg Progrm, Limits
V,rlv,,o rr  v > u     /                       ~                           t/MPONDE Scheme Nome
W  T A N Z AN           '  ditrn                      
/ vvpkv                 O n    TIs rea do oT -p h- bev preprb ro1 e                          0            2              4              6
The dem-r,v A Ao l   an d rth
tvko            dvnor,mplp,vvtl,eoMrrvrh. -                                0        0         4        R         B        I
r A M S Ar \        r -QZAAFI(aWe  Wveld 8.ek  vd omlld-,-of                                                  KILOMETERS
--8 8   12Z;t 41  f   a  =  rr acc.Re      .. lsdge   bllr.0-



