word a                      FILE CtOP
MR oiam       ONLY
Rqsu N. P-2814-T&
OF TE
PRESIDT OF TH
INT&TIOS&L DISVELOI  AS=OCIATIOff
ECUMTIWVE DIRECTS
PROPOS= CREDIT
UNITED  EPULIC OF TANZANI
POR A
SWIMU.)Dl  TU& CONSOLIDIRIU   PROJECT
Nay 14, 1980
T 1   .|        m aam =  be m    , by                  1y i d    I     of
OakI Q~&dbm l a-            ad      be i_i-_b W



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          = Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1.00                =  TSh 8.30
TSh 1.0                =  US$0.12
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in
relation to a basket of the currencies of Tanzania's
trading partners, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in
this report were made at US$1.00 to TSh 8.30 which
is close to the 1979 average exchange rate.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EAC     =  East African Community
ha      = Hectare
kg      =  Kilogram
MOA     = Ministry of Agriculture
MOF     = Ministry of Finance
MDB     = Marketing Development Bureau of MOA
NORAD   = Norwegian Agency for International Development
PMO     =  Prime Minister's Office
PPMB    =  Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau of MOA
TRDB    =  Tanzania Rural Development Bank
TTA     =  Tanzania Tea Authority
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
TTA       : July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:            United Republic of Tanzania
BENEFICIARIES:       Tanzania Tea Authority (TTA) and the Regional Autho-
rities of Iringa and West Lake
AMOUNT:              US$14 million equivalent
TERMS:               Standard
RELENDING TERMS:    About US$12.0 million equivalent in IDA funds would
be relent to the Tanzania Tea Authority (TTA) at 10%
interest per annum for 28 years including 8 years of
grace. The balance of US$2.0 million would be passed on
by the Government to the relevant Regional Authorities to
implement the roads component. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
PROJECT              The proposed project would, over a five-year period,
DESCRIPTION:        consolidate ongoing TTA operations and provide additional
processing facilities. It would aim to (i) strengthen
TTA's capacity to handle green leaf produced by small-
holder tea plantings including those established under the
Smallholder Tea Development Project (Credit 287-TA); (ii)
maximize the production benefits of smallholders in those
areas where an alternative to tea planting is not
available; (iii) strengthen TTA's financial viabi.ity; and
(iv) increase Government's export earnings from the tea
industry. Specifically, the project would finance
construction of one new factory; extending and re-
equipping of five factories; transport facilities; spare
parts; workshop tools; establishment of fuelwood
plantations; planting of 200 ha and infilling of the
equivalent of 630 ha of tea; construction and main-
tenance of 176 km of tea roads; and incremental staff and
technical assistance for TTA. The major risk of the
project is institutional deficiencies; this risk has been
minimized through the provision of technical assistance in
the key positions of factory operations. The forecasts of
world tea prices have been conservatively projected based
on key producing countries' abilities for expansion of
tea production.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COSTS                              -------------US$ Million-------------
Local           Foreign           Total
Factory Construction and
Rehabilitation                         2.59             3.66             6.25
Transport Facilities (including
operating costs)                      0.57              2.24             2.81
Fuelwood Plantations                     0.49             0.03             0.52         5
Tea Planting Program                     0.88             0.33              1.21
Warehouses                               0.30               -               0.30
Road Construction and Maintenance        0.68             2.20              2.88
Staff and Technical Assistance           1.06             0.48             1.54
Sub-Total                                6.57             8.94            15.51
Physical Contingencies                   0.42             0.85              1.27
Price Contingencies                      1.59             1.65             3.24
Total Project Cost                       8.58            11.44            20.02
of which taxes and duties              0.26              -               0.26
Project Cost net of taxes and duties  8.32               11.44            19.76
FINANCING PLAN:                                    ------US$ million---------
Local       Foreign    Total
IDA                                           3.8         10.2        14.0
NORAD (for part of the road component)        0.4          1.2         1.6
Government (including taxes & duties)         4.4           -          4.4
Total Project Cost                          8.6         11.4        20.0
DISBURSEMENTS:
---------------US$ million-------------
IDA Fiscal year                         1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual                                   2.0    4.9    3.3    1.9    1.4    0.5
Cumulative                               2.0    6.9   10.2   12.1   13.5   14.0
RATE OF RETURN:            21%
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:  Report No. 2814-TA dated May 9, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of US$14.0 million equivalent
on standard terms to help finance a project to improve the tea industry in
Tanzania. About US$12.0 million equivalent of the IDA funds would be relent
to the Tanzania Tea Authority (TTA) at an interest rate of 10% per annum for
28 years including 8 years of grace for project investments. The balance of
US$2.0 million equivalent would be passed on by the Government to the Regional
Authorities (Iringa and West Lake) to implement part of the road construction
and maintenance component of the proposed project. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976 and the
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A new Country Economic Memorandum is expected to be issued later this year.
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1978 of US$230. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 50% of GDP and about 70% of total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GDP, approximately the same percentage as 11 years ago. The
service sector produces about 40% of GDP. Overall population density is
low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated.  Population growth is
estimated at 3.0% per annum with both fertility and mortality at relatively
high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, transportation, and wholesale trade
are under state control. There is extensive state intervention in economic
activity, including import licensing, foreign exchange controls, price control,
the reservation of some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Grain Storage and Milling project dated April 15, 1980.



- 2 -
detailed Government investment planning. The second major feature of
Tanzania's development strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development
and social programs to benefit the poor and reduce inequalities in income
distribution. This is reflected in ambitious Government programs for the
provision of rural water supplies, health services and universal primary
education.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1968-78 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.8%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita.  While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
recovered with annual growth of 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1978. During the
seventies the service sector was the fastest growing sector - 6.3% per year.
6.        The Government has a good record of domestic resource mobilization.
Between 1967-68 and 1977-78 the share of recurrent revenues rose from 15.1%
to 19.3% of GDP. However, most of this increase occurred before 1975-1976;
in 1974/75 revenue peaked at 22% of GDP. The increase was achieved through a
combination of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75, the
rate of national savings has also been high; gross national savings fluctuated
at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960s through 1973, fell to half that
level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis level in 1976
and 1977. These are high levels of savings for a country at Tanzania's income
level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of more equitable income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975 the
average urban rural gap remained approximately constant, halting the trend
towards an increasing gap in the early 1960s. Moreover, it is likely that
this gap has been slightly reduced since 1976 due to continued recovery of
agricultural production and higher producer prices. However, regional income
differentials in rural areas have tended to widen slightly. Within the formal
urban sector there has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income
differential between the highest-paid government officials and minimum wage
earners, from 50 to 1 in 1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975. However, a large informal
sector has emerged comprising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed
workers with earnings significantly below the official urban minimum wage.
The policies of wage restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975
should have a beneficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribu-
tion, and the basic needs oriented programs in rural water, health and primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in
public expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite this impressive overall record of development, some pro-
blems have begun to manifest themselves in recent years. Exports have failed
to keep pace with the growth of the rest of the economy; the overall export
index is down almost one-third since 1966. This poor performance in exports



- 3 -
is due to the poor growth rate of agricultural cash crops. While agricul-
tural output has increased impressively in recent years (10.9% in 1976 and
8.2% in 1977), most of this growth has been in the hard-to-measure subsistence
sector; the monetary sector has lagged well behind. This failure of export
growth has led to increasing dependency on foreign loans and grants to pay
for imports.
9.        A second increasingly serious problem is the deceleration of the
growth of domestic revenues. While still at a high ratio to GDP compared to
most other developing countries, government revenues have been growing more
slowly than GDP in recent years.  At the same time recurrent expenditures have
been higher than budgeted. As a result, public sector savings have been well
below expectations and the Government has had to rely more upon borrowing
(both foreign and local) and external aid for financing development than was
planned.
Recent Economic Developments
10.       During 1975-77 the Government adhered to the program agreed to
at the time of the Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. This program
included redirecting investment to the directly productive sectors of industry
and agriculture, higher agricultural producer prices, constraints on wages and
salaries, price and tax increases to restrain consumption and tight control
of imports. These policies, aided by the boom in coffee prices, succeeded in
keeping government spending under control with low levels of borrowing from
the banking system and led to a balance of payments surplus of almost US$150
million in 1977. Food production increased and government stocks of most
foodgrains reached record levels. In 1978 the Government was able to ease
import restrictions and begin to import the spares and raw materials needed
by all the major sectors in the economy.
11.       Unfortunately, the price of coffee, Tanzania's major export, began
to fall at the same time that imports were liberalized. Also, in October,
1978 war broke out with Uganda and the resulting imports of military equipment
and mobilization of resources required for the war effort put an increasing
strain on the balance of payments and the domestic budget. Consequently, the
current account showed a deficit of more than US$450 million in 1978 and the
overall balance of payments was almost US$300 million in deficit. The Govern-
ment's foreign reserves were rapidly drawn down and the country was forced to
delay payment of about US$60 million in import bills.
12.       The situation deteriorated further in 1979.  The overall balance
of payments for 1979 is expected to be almost US$200 million in deficit, and
arrears on import payment were estimated at about US$200 million by the end
of the year. At the same time the domestic budget deficit has increased
substantially. A recurrent budget deficit of almost TSh 1 billion (US$120
million), was estimated for FY1978/79 and government borrowing from the
banking system is estimated at TSh 3 billion (US$360 million), a major
component in the increase in the money supply of about 35%. In an effort to
deal with the increasing balance of payments deficit, import licenses were



reduced by almost 40% in real terms from the 1978 level and the Government
announced a 10% devaluation in January of 1979. In addition the FY1979/80
budget called for a reduction in the level of recurrent expenditure and
borrowing from the banking system of TSh 1.67 billion; however, through the
first quarter of this fiscal year borrowing was already TSh 1.4 billion as
spending agencies, due to lack of budgetary discipline, were able to exceed
their budgetary allocations. In early 1979 the Government arranged for almost
US$75 million in funds from the IMF from a First Credit Tranche, the Trust
Fund and the Export Compensatory Fund, but negotiations for further assistance
from the IMF have so far been unsuccessful. To deal with the increasing
economic problems as well as provide a framework for IMF assistance, the
Government urgently needs to develop a comprehensive program to overcome
the emerging crisis, as it did in 1974; the Bank has offered to help the
Government in developing such a program.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance on
concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid has
been given to Tanzania and the Government's reluctance in the past to use
higher cost commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service
ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the recent balance
of payments crisis has forced the Government to utilize commercial loans and
suppliers credits and as a result the debt service ratio is estimated at 12%
in 1979 and projected at 15% in 1980. We expect it will remain in the range
of 15-20% throughout the 1980's. In 1978 the Bank held 12% of Tanzania's
external debt (for the Bank Group, it was 28%) and received 37% of Tanzania's
debt service (40% for the Bank Group). We are projecting this debt service
share to fall to about 21% in 1980 and to remain around 25% for the coming
decade.
14.       Tanzania's development program will require resources in excess of
domestic savings and external capital made available to finance the foreign
exchange costs of projects. Given the Government's efforts to mobilize
domestic resources and in view of our support for its increased emphasis
on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank Group will continue to
finance a high proportion of total costs including, in appropriate cases, a
portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has now prepared reports on
the results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the General
Services, and the methodology adopted in appraising the assets and liabilities.
In late March 1980, the mediator presented to the three Governments his
proposals for the allocation of these assets and liabilities, for their con-
sideration. The next step would be the start of negotiations among the three
Governments based on the mediator's proposals. According to his terms of
reference, the mediator would be available to assist in arriving at a



definitive settlement. The mediator's report and recommendations on the
future structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB) have been accepted
by the three Governments. The revised EADB Charter along with the Treaty
amending and re-enacting the new Charter have been submitted to the three
Governments for signature as soon as they are constitutionally ready; this is
expected shortly.
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on
Tanzania's budget as new national entities take over the services formerly
provided by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the EAC
difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1962, 42 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, of
which two on Third Window terms, amounting to US$812.5 million have so
far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in
soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June
8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations as of March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       To support Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. While up to the end of FY1972 Bank Group operations were
directed mainly to infrastructure, the overwhelming majority of the operations
approved since FY73 have been for directly productive projects. Furthermore,
a number of recent Bank Group supported infrastructure projects have been
closely linked with specific productive activities. For example, the Urban
Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in December 1976, will
support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and 1386-TA)
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Grain Storage and Milling Project dated April 15, 1980.



- 6 -
and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA and Credit No. 833-TA).
Directly productive projects recently approved include the Second Cashewnut
Development Project (Credit No. 801-TA), the Tobacco Handling Project (Credit
No. 802-TA), the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Loan No. 1650-TA and Credit
No. 875-TA) and the Tanganyika Development Finance Company Limited Project
(Loan No. 1745-TA). In addition, a Tourism Rehabilitation Project (Credit No.
860-TA), a Sixth Education Project (Credit No. 861-TA) and a Fifth Highway
Project (Credit No. 876-TA) were approved by the Board in FY79. Since the
beginning of this fiscal year five projects were approved; a fourth line of
credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank (Loan No. 1750-TA), an Engineering
Credit for the Dar-es-Salaam Port (Credit No. S-24-TA), the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (Credit No. 987-TA), a Pyrethrum Project (Credit No. 1007-TA)
and a Grain Storage and Milling Project (Credit No. 1015-TA). Projects which
have been appraised include a Second Urban Water Supply Project, an Agricul-
tural Services (research) Project, a Second Technical Assistance Project, a
Telecommunications Project, a Coconut Project, a Petroleum Exploration
Project, a Seventh Education Project and a Rural Development Project in Mara
Region. A small scale industries project, a third urban project, a harbours
project, a structural adjustment project, a Coal Engineering Project, and a
railway project are also under preparation.
19.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. The causes of the
difficulties in implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of
suitably trained and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in
identifying agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder
farmers while others result from the strains associated with attempting a
"frontal attack" on poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent
and drastic administrative changes, which -- although potentially the source
of long-term benefits -- have disrupted orderly execution of projects and made
parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. Also, the Uganda war (para. 11)
has had some impact on project implementation. In the early stages of the war
there was some diversion of equipment and manpower; however most of these
problems have been solved. The more serious medium term problem involves the
financial and foreign exchange implications of the war. If these problems are
not resolved, the availability of adequate local funds and the shortage of
foreign exchange could become a major constraint to implementation and oper-
ating performance. In general, implementation difficulties have been most
severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our
lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector, these problems
have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast, the
"modern" sector projects have tended to fare better:  the Tanzania Investment
Bank, Mwanza Textile and Morogoro Industrial Estate Projects, for example, are
proceeding well.
20.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on



Bank Group procurement with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
14 Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank Group
financed projects in agriculture and rural development. In addition, a number
of EDI supported courses on the transport and industry sectors have been held
at the East African Management Institute in Arusha Tanzania. Furthermore,
the need to establish a close and continuous working level dialogue between
responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank Group staff on implementation problems
was one of the prime reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two
professionals in October 1976. Finally, in February 1977 a regular Government/
Bank Group review of project implementation was established. Discussions on
the Bank Group project portfolio, chaired by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
attended by Bank Group staff and officials from implementing agencies, deal
in detail with individual problem projects and problems which are affecting
project implementation across a number of sectors. As a result of these
efforts, there has been some improvement in project implementation. Actions
agreed to during the reviews have been completed relatively quickly and
coordination and communication between MOF and the various ministries and
agencies responsible for project implementation has improved markedly.
21.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective project implementation. In addition to fully supporting the
project implementation review system, MOF has set up a unit to oversee project
performance. As a consequence of these efforts, the disbursement record of
Bank Group financed projects has improved somewhat over the last two years,
and a recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is
about equal to the Bank-wide average. While there is still a potential for
further significant improvements, the Government is implementing its investment
program, including Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more effec-
tively than in the past. However, the impact of the Uganda War (para. 11) on
the Government's resources may affect the progress in project implementation
until such constraints are dealt with.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 1/
General Background
22.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. Most agricultural production is from small-
holdings using family labor. Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small
number of private estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, sugar,
wheat, rice and livestock. Estate production has diminished in importance
since independence and the state farm program remains small. Tanzania's
national livestock herd, the second largest in Africa, is grazed extensively
over the 40% of the country which is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is
largely managed along traditional lines.
1/   Paragraphs 22 to 26 are essentially the same as those in the President's
Report on the Grain Storage and Milling project dated April 15, 1980.



- 8 -
23.       The recent performance of the agricultural sector has been dis-
appointing. Over the period 1967-77, the average annual rate of growth of
agricultural production was 2.7%, almost equal to the population growth rate.
In the early seventies food crop production failed to keep pace with popula-
tion growth and, as a result, Tanzania became increasingly dependent on
imports of maize, rice and wheat. A severe drought in 1973 and 1974 resulted
in poor harvests and large imports of foodgrains. Following this, the Govern-
ment implemented a number of policies to increase food crop production. Along
with favorable weather conditions these had some effect on stimulating food
crop production. Since the drought, in spite of substantial decline in
export crop production, total agricultural production recovered, increasing in
real terms at an average annual rate of about 7%. However these production
increases represent primarily a recovery from the drought and only return
agricultural expansion to its long-term growth path. In addition there
is the problem of increasing export crop production as discussed above (para.
8). Increasing the long-term growth rate in agriculture and ensuring balanced
growth are two of the key objectives of the Bank Group's investment strategy
in agriculture. The proposed project fits into this strategy, and, although
tea generates only about 7% of current foreign exchange earnings from agricul-
tural exports, the potential for increasing export earnings is significant.
Rural Organization
24.       In order to improve the design and execution of rural development
projects and programs and mobilize local resources, in 1972 the Government
adopted a decentralized administrative structure. The country's 25 administra-
tive Regions (20 on the mainland) were given substantial power to control the
planning and budgeting of resources in their respective jurisdictions and a
high degree of administrative autonomy. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) was
established to provide overall policy direction, coordinate regional plans and
budgets and assist the Regions in preparing their development programs. While
it is clear that this decentralization of authority has improved communication
between the Government and the villages (as the civil service operating at the
district and regional levels are directly involved in rural development
efforts), problems of manpower availability and the ill-defined division of
responsibility between the regions, central ministries and parastatals persist.
25.       Since independence, but particularly from 1970, the grouping of
dispersed farm families into villages (villagization) has been a key element
of Government strategy for the rural areas. The objective of this program
is to facilitate the provision of infrastructure and services to the rural
population and encourage self-reliance and a community approach to rural
development. During 1974, the emphasis shifted from creating additional
Ujamaa 1/ villages to forming "development" villages, which place less stress
on communal production. At the same time, the pace of villagization was
accelerated; as a result there are now almost 8,000 registered villages,
containing over three-quarters of Tanzania's rural population. While disrupt-
ing production somewhat in the short term, it is still too early to judge how
1/   "Ujamaa" is a Swahili word meaning "familyhood".



effectively the villages will be able to meet their goals over the medium and
long term.
Agricultural Services
26.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for the overall
planning and monitoring of the sector as well as coordinating agricultural
research, training and extension staff, pricing policy, seed multiplication
and supervision of agricultural parastatals. Agricultural research is under-
taken by a wide variety of Government agencies and while MOA has been given
the responsibility for overall coordination, research resources have not
always been allocated in accordance with development priorities. Agricultural
extension services are manned by staff trained by MOA, but are under the
control of the regional administrations. The links between research and
extension are weak, and field staff are often poorly trained and inadequately
supervised. A major review of both the research and the extension systems is
underway, and the Bank Group has agreed to work with the Government to survey
the needs in these areas. Pricing policy is an important tool of the Govern-
ment in the agricultural sector. Since 1974, the Government has accorded
greater recognition to the need to give farmers production incentives; crop
and livestock prices are now reviewed annually and, within the context of
panterritorial pricing, substantial producer price increases have been made in
recent years. Agricultural Parastatals, which exist for major crops and
livestock, play a key role in agricultural marketing and processing. The
tendency has been to progressively enlarge the role and scope of these insti-
tutions, and this has frequently strained their capacities to efficiently
provide the services for which they are responsible. Overall operational
efficiency is low, with correspondingly high costs for services. The Govern-
ment is aware of the problems but has not yet developed a comprehensive
strategy for addressing them. The Bank Group, in the course of its appraisals
of agricultural projects, has been analyzing the parastatals involved and also
intends to initiate sector work for a broader review of Tanzania's agricultural
parastatals.
The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
27.       TRDB, a wholly Government owned rural credit institution, was
established in 1971 to provide long and medium term financing for rural
development as well as technical assistance and advice for the promotion of
rural development. It was also required to administer special funds and to
finance the purchase and resale of agricultural inputs on credit terms.
The authorized share capital of TRDB is TSh. 300 million of which TSh. 172
million has been paid in. All powers are vested in a Board of Directors
consisting of nine members chosen from among persons with knowledge and
experience in economic and financial matters, agriculture, rural development
and cooperative institutions. TRDB has been the financial intermediary under
a series of Bank Group financed agricultural and rural development projects
A project aimed at strengthening TRDB as an institution and supporting its
long-term growth, including a small line of credit, has been approved by the
Executive Directors on March 4, 1980.



- 10 -
28.       TRDB now provides short-term (seasonal loans), medium and long-term
financing for rural development. Eligible borrowers originally included:
District Development Corporations, Cooperative Unions, Ujamaa and registered
villages, and individuals or corporations engaged in rural development.
However, the Cooperative Unions were dissolved in May 1976 and since that time
the basic thrust of TRDB's lending has been to villages. In respect of the
proposed project, TRDB will provide credit for the farm inputs (fertilizers
and planting materials) related to the planting program component.
The Tea Subsector
29.       Tea has been grown in Tanzania for the last fifty years.  Tea
plantations, at altitudes of between 1,000 and 1,700 meters, are located in
Rungwe, Mufindi and Njombe in the southern highlands, the Usambaras (Loshoto,
Amani and Korogwe) in the northeast and Bukoba in the northwest. The total
area now planted with tea is 18,700 ha of which 8,240 on private estates,
8,675 ha on smallholdings, 1,245 ha on TTA estates and the remaining 540 ha on
cooperative and mission estates. Tanzania's production of made tea was 16,730
tons in 1977 compared with 10,000 tons in 1972 and is estimated to reach
25,000 tons (1% of projected world production) by 1985, of which 8,000 tons
would represent smallholder production. About 29,000 smallholders are now
growing tea on average holdings of about 0.3 ha. An average family of 6
persons would have adequate labor to plant and maintain 0.4 ha of tea which
would provide an attractive net return per man day when compared with alter-
native crops such as coffee and maize. The present favorable position of tea,
while subject to changes in other crop prices, is expected to continue, unless
the current green leaf price paid to farmers drops from TSh. 1.10/kg (after a
68% increase in 1977) to below TSh. 0.65/kg in real terms in relation to
coffee or TSh. 0.45/kg in relation to maize.
30.       Tea processing--i.e. conversion of green leaf to black tea--consists
of withering, rolling, fermenting, drying, sorting and packing. One kilogram
of made tea requires about 4.7 kg of green leaf. After removal of surface
moisture (withering), the leaves go through the rolling process which crushes
the leaves to small particles and ruptures leaf cells to express the juices
which enables fermentation of the tannin. This stage is followed by fermen-
tation of the juices which influences the flavor, strength and color of the
liquors. After adjusting to the proper fermentation, the drying process fixes
the fermented juices to the leaf particles. Processed tea is then sorted to
suit the requirements of the various buyers. As of December 31, 1979, private
estates owned 14 tea processing factories with 38 dryers (each dryer could
process/produce about 500,000 kg of made tea per year) while TTA, the only
other tea processor in Tanzania, owned five operating factories--Katumba,
Lupembe, Bukoba, Mponde and Bulwa (recently acquired), with a total of 13
dryers. Recent deterioration in the quality of tea produced by certain
factories has adversely affected tea export earnings as sold tea has fetched
lower prices. Tea ranks fifth among Tanzania's export crops in earnings, and
accounted for export receipts of US$20 million in 1977, and US$27 million in
1979 (5% of total export earnings). The increase in export earnings reflects
an increase of the quantity exported.



- 11 -
31.       The Tanzania Tea Authority (TTA) was established as a parastatal
body corporate under the Tea Ordinance Act of 1968. TTA's functions include
coordination of all aspects of production, processing, marketing and research
of the tea industry. The Minister of Agriculture has direct responsibility
for overseeing the activities of TTA which is headed by a Board of Directors
representing concerned government ministries and regional authorities.
Day-to-day control over TTA's activities rests with the General Manager. At
present TTA is organized into four functional Departments at headquarters
(Administration, Production, Marketing, and Finance/Planning), and has four
field branches based in four of its existing tea factories. Each department
is headed by a manager, who reports to the General Manager; the field branch
managers report to the production manager. The last General Manager was
reassigned in April 1980 after a five year tenure during which he was able to
resolve some of TTA's serious organizational and management problems;
a new General Manager is expected to be appointed shortly. TTA is, however,
still hampered by lack of specialist staff, particularly in the Production
Department (factory management and processing). Technical assistance to
strengthen TTA's Production/Operations Department would be provided under the
proposed project (para. 52). A review of TTA's organizational structure is
discussed below (para. 58).
32.       TTA has been recording cash deficits for the last six years mainly
because of continuing losses by its factories resulting mainly from deteriora-
tion in the quality of tea processed. Inability to handle efficiently
the green leaf production because of limited withering capacity, irregular
green leaf deliveries and lack of technical management expertise and supervi-
sion are the main causes for the quality deterioration. As a result a large
deficit had to be met by Government subventions, amounting to about TSh. 41
million over the period 1974 to 1977. Also, increasing cost of fuel oil and
high administrative costs are responsible for part of these losses. A 68%
increase in green leaf prices in 1977 aggravated the situation. Projections
of TTA's financial position indicate that, without the project, TTA would not
be able to meet its debt obligations and would continue to incur losses. To
rectify this situation, the Government has decided to take steps to resolve
TTA's financial problems (para. 66).
33.       Previous Bank Group Experience in Tea Projects.  An IDA Credit of
US$10.8 million (Credit No. 287-TA) was extended in March 1972 for the Small-
holder Tea Development Project. The project was designed to (i) expand the
smallholder tea area by 8,300 ha from 3,270 ha to 11,570 ha and involving
14,000 smallholders; (ii) construct two new processing factories and expansion
of three existing factories; (iii) provide extension and leaf collection
services and facilities; (iv) provide farm inputs credit; (v) construct
about 300 km tea roads; and (vi) provide technical assistance to strengthen
TTA. A full review of the project was carried out in August 1979. In terms
of production the full impact of the project will only be felt several years
from now since the bulk of the tea plantings are still immature. As of now,
however, project achievements have fallen short of appraisal targets; only 69%
of the targeted area has been planted and at full development tea production
is projected to reach 50% to 60% of appraisal estimates. Main reasons for the



- 12 -
shortfall in plantings were over-ambitious targets, weak management during the
early project years and Government decisions to introduce collective farming
and to restrict hiring of immigrant labor from neighboring countries.
Also, out of two new factories provided for under the project only one has
been completed; the other was delayed but construction is now nearing com-
pletion. Other project components were implemented in line with the reduced
planting program. However, road construction targets were met fully and the
number of participating farmers exceeded the appraisal estimates by 2,000
(from 14,000 to 16,000). While smallholder tea production has doubled
between 1975 and 1979, the quality of processed tea has deteriorated because
expansion of processing capacity has not kept pace with increased green leaf
production. TTA's financial performance has been poor and the recalculated
economic rate of return is 12% compared to the appraisal estimate of 17%. The
overall targets set for achievement over a 5-year period were too ambitious.
Tea development, a relatively complex and specialized undertaking, covers
a range of activities involving a large number of small farmers with varying
backgrounds, factory operations involving specialized technical and tea making
expertise, and international marketing where time is of the essence and price
is based on quality. To recruit and train staff to implement a wide-ranging
project with a view to producing a successful and viable industry at the end
of 5 years was too difficult a task.
34.       The Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 2787 dated December
18, 1979) concluded that it is essential that the next few years be devoted to
consolidation and strengthening of TTA's organization rather than to further
expansion. The quality of made tea has to be improved and the cost of produc-
tion reduced. While this would require a general all-around strengthening
and improvement of TTA's performance, the factory processing and closely
related leaf collection aspects as well as the green leaf price need urgent
attention because of their bearing on tea quality and production costs. It
was also concluded that some additional processing capacity is needed to allow
for the still expanding production from existing plantings.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Tanzania
with the assistance of the Bank Group as a follow-up to the Smallholder Tea
Development Project (Credit No. 287-TA). The project was appraised in July
1978 with a subsequent post-appraisal in September/October 1979 to reassess
TTA's financial viability. A staff appraisal report entitled "Smallholder
Tea Consolidation Project" (Report No. 2814-TA dated May 9, 1980 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 23 to 28, 1980 and the Tanzania Delegation was led by
Dr. S. Madallali, principal Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture. A Credit and
Project Summary is at the beginning of this report and a Supplementary Project
Data Sheet is at Annex III.



- 13 -
Objectives and Description of the Project
36.       The proposed project would, over a five-year period (1980/81-
1984/85), concentrate on consolidating ongoing TTA operations and would
provide additional processing capacity to cater for the expected increase in
green leaf production from existing smallholder tea plantings, including those
established under the First Tea Project, to rectify the imbalance between leaf
production and leaf processing capacity and improve the quality of processed
tea.  The project would also aim at improving TTA's financial viability,
organizational structure and technical management.  Specifically, the project
would include financing for:
(a) construction of one new factory at Ukalawa, completion
of the Mwakaleli factory to a four dryer factory, and
extending and re-equipping of existing factories at
Katumba, Lupembe, Bukoba, and Mponde;
(b) provision of transport facilities including green leaf
collection vehicles, spare parts to put repairable
vehicles in working order, vehicles for both the
factories and TTA headquarters, and vehicles operating
costs;
(c) establishment of fuelwood plantations to substitute wood
for oil in operating the factories;
(d) a tea planting program of an additional 200 ha at Njombe
and a total of 630 ha infilling 1/ in three of the four
tea areas;
(e) provision of credit to project growers for farm inputs;
(f) purchase of two warehouses in Dar-es-Salaam;
(g) construction and maintenance of 176 km of tea roads; and
(h) technical assistance and incremental local staff to
strengthen TTA's factory engineering and technical
management, and improve its operations.
Implementation and Detailed Features
37.       TTA would have overall responsibility for the implementation of
the project except for the roads and credit components. However, TTA's
Senior Economist will coordinate the flow of information in respect to the
road and credit components as part of the monitoring and evaluation activi-
ties, including the periodic reporting on project progress.
1/   Filling of gaps in existing planted area.



- 14 -
Factory Construction and Rehabilitation
38.        In order to rectify the imbalance between the increasing green
leaf production from the planting program financed under the First Tea Project,
and the existing leaf processing capacity as well as to prevent the recurrence
of rejection and rationing of green leaf purchases from farmers, the proposed
project would provide for the construction of a new factory at Ukalawa,
completion of the Mwakaleli factory and re-equipping and rehabilitating of
four operating factories. Also to ensure full utilization of TTA's factories,
the project would support a small planting program (para. 45).
39.        Smallholder green leaf production in Njombe district of the Iringa
Region is expected to reach 8.6 million kg per year by 1985. This area is
now served by the Lupembe factory (a three dryer factory) with a capacity to
process 5.4 million kg per year. To process the excess leaf production, a
new factory at Ukalawa would be constructed and equipped with two dryers with
a third to be installed at a later stage if necessary.
40.       In order to cope with the increasing production of green leaf in
the Rungwe district of the Mbeya Region, the Mwakaleli factory, which was
constructed and partially equipped under the First Tea Project, would be
expanded and fully equipped to a four dryer factory rather than two dryers as
originally envisaged. The same area is served at present by the Katumba
factory (a four dryer factory). To reduce factory operating costs and limit
consumption of expensive imported oil, TTA has started to convert the Katumba
factory from oil to coal and the Mwakaleli factory is designed as a coal-
fired factory. Although Tanzania's proven coal reserves are significant,
present production is limited and falls short of existing demand. Therefore,
arrangements satisfactory to the Association would be made by the Government
to ensure the allocation of sufficient quantities of coal to Katumba and
Mwakaleli factories. This is a condition of disbursement against the coal-
fired boiler for Katumba and dryers for Mwakaleli, to be financed under the
project (paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
41.       Four of TTA's existing factories (Lupembe, Katumba, Mponde and
Bukoba) will be improved to alleviate present shortcomings and processing
bottlenecks. The major objective would be streamlining and balancing of all
steps of processing to improve the quality of processed tea. While the main
constraint affecting all factories is the inadequacy of withering capacity
(para. 32) which will be improved through provision of additional withering
troughs, other shortcomings including lack of factory workshop facilities
will be rectified through provision of machinery, equipment, tools and spare
parts. To ensure proper operation of its factories, TTA will make adequate
provision in its annual budget for funds required to regularly maintain and
repair its factories (Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
Transport Facilities
42.       The project would provide for improved green leaf collection facili-
ties for transport from collection centers to the factories. Reduction of



- 15 -
delays in green leaf transport would minimize the risk of deterioration of
made tea quality. Twenty-eight 7-ton trucks and 18 tractors with trailers
would be purchased under the project to handle the increasing quantity of leaf
as plantings mature. The tractors would be used for collection of leaf from
centers located near the factories while trucks would cover the more distant
routes. TTA, in cooperation with village committees, would work out detailed
leaf collection schedules. TTA staff would ensure that only leaf of satisfac-
tory quality is purchased, overloading of leaf transport vehicles is avoided
and delivery to the factory is expedited. In addition, the project would
provide for spare parts to put repairable vehicles in working order, and for
other transport facilities including one four-wheel drive vehicle for each
of the two new factories at Mwakaleli and Ukalawa, and one for each of the two
expatriate Resident Engineers (para. 52) stationed at Katumba and Lupembe
factories. To improve TTA headquarters' supervision over the factories,
nine vehicles would be provided for the use of the General Manager, his six
executive officers, and the two expatriates (Chief Engineer and Factory
Superintendent). To ensure that TTA's vehicles' operating costs are kept to
the minimum and to facilitate identification of the operating costs of the
various vehicles, TTA would maintain separate records to reflect these
costs and would establish operating procedures to ensure that its vehicles
are used efficiently (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). TTA will
also make adequate provision in its annual budget for funds required to
maintain its vehicles (Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement) and the
project would provide for financing the operating costs of all vehicles
procured under the project as part of a financial package aimed at establish-
ing TTA's financial viability.
Fuelwood Plantations
43.       The existing Lupembe and Bukoba factories already operate on fuel-
woocl and the Mponde factory is in the process of being converted from oil to
fuelwood. At present, the Lupembe factory purchases wood from a commercial
company at Njombe. Transport costs are high and the same cost will apply to
the new Ukalawa factory (para. 39). In Bukoba, firewood is purchased from the
Forest Department and neighboring estates, but Mponde factory has recenty
started to establish its own fuelwood plantation.
44.       The establishment of TTA's own eucalyptus plantations would reduce
fuel cost of its factories. Based on the quantity of firewood required to
cover withering and drying processes a 400 ha fuelwood plantation would be
required for each of the factories at Lupembe, Ukalawa and Bukoba, and 500 ha
for Mponde. As Mpohde factory has already established about 100 ha, a total
of about 1,600 ha fuelwood plantations would, therefore, be established under
the project. Land for the plantations has been identified in the factories'
areas except in Bukoba where a soil survey is being carried out to confirm the
suitability of the proposed site. A full soil survey report on the proposed
site or other alternative sites, will be submitted to the Association for its
review and comments before the establishment of the plantation, but not later
than December 31, 1980 (Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 16 -
Planting Program and Farm Inputs Credit
45.       In order to ensure full and balanced utilization of available
processing capacity, the proposed project provides for new plantings of 200 ha
and infillings equivalent to 630 ha. The incremental production from these
plantings at maturity (after 10 years) is estimated at 0.6 million kg of made
tea per year, equivalent to about 3% of Tanzania's current annual production.
The minimum economic size of the new Ukalawa factory (para. 39) would be a two
dryer capacity to produce about 1.0 million kg of made tea per year requiring
the equivalent to 4.7 million kg green leaf. The existing plantings in the
factory's area would only provide a maximum of 3.2 million kg green leaf, at
maturity. To ensure full utilization of the Ukalawa factory, an additional
200 ha will be planted by smallholders in project years I and 2. Existing
farmers whose tea plantings are less than 0.4 ha and new farmers would parti-
cipate. An infilling program covering an equivalent of 630 ha would also be
carried out in three of the four tea growing Regions with Rungwe district
(Mbeya Region) undertaking 450 ha, and Njombe and Lushoto districts (Iringa
and Tanga Regions perspectively) 90 ha each.
46.       TTA would produce planting materials in the nurseries to be estab-
lished under the project, for sale on credit to project growers (small-
holders participating in the planting/infilling program). TTA would ensure
that only healthy and vigorous plants are supplied. Fertilizer at the recom-
mended rates would also continue to be supplied on credit. Project growers'
credit for farm inputs (planting materials and fertilizers) would be provided
by TRDB in a timely fashion to facilitate the implementation of the planting
program (Section 3.02 (a)(i) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       The proposed factory and planting investments are designed to
provide the most economic utilization of the proposed factory network. Any
further expansion of tea areas resulting in additional green leaf production
would cause either a lowering of the quality of made tea or inability of the
factories to process the green leaf. The Government, therefore, would not
undertake any additional plantings without making adequate and appropriate
arrangements for the processing of the production resulting from such plant-
ings (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Warehouses
48.       To improve facilities for storage of tea prior to shipment and to
reduce storage costs, TTA would acquire two warehouses in the Dar-es-Salaam
area. These warehouses will be fully financed by the Government and TTA.
Road Construction and Maintenance
49.       The proposed project would supplement the tea road network of 300 km
constructed under the First Tea Project, through the construction and
maintenance of a total of 176 km of selected tea roads. These roads would be
constructed to appropriate technical specifications (Annex to Schedule 2 to
the draft Development Credit Agreement) and would be maintained to ensure that
they are passable in all weather. The relevant Regions (Iringa, I-beya,
Tanga and IWest Lake) would be responsible for construction and maintenance of
the tea roads within their boundaries.



- 17 -
50.       At Rungwe (Mbeya Region) and Lushoto (Tanga Region) where 51 km and
53 km of tea roads respectively would be constructed, the Norwegian Agency for
International Development (NORAD) will continue to provide both technical and
financial assistance for road works as part of a broader feeder road program
in these two areas. The Norwegian assisted roads, though an integral part of
the project, would be treated as a separate component which would be financed
by the Government of the Kingdom of Norway, on grant terms, and Tanzania.
51.       A road Construction Unit would be established at Njombe (Iringa
Region) by not later than December 31, 1980, to carry out the road works in
that Region (53 km). This Unit would comprise of a Mechanical Engineer and a
Road Construction Engineer, both internationally recruited, reporting to the
Regional Road Engineer (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
All necessary equipment would be provided for under the credit. In order to
ensure that road works at Njombe would be implemented on time, an annual road
work program would be submitted to the Association for review and comments not
later than March 31 preceding the fiscal year to which the work program
relates, starting on March 31, 1981 (Section 3.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The project would also provide spare parts to rehabilitate
the equipment of the construction unit set up under the First Tea Project at
Bukoba (West Lake Region) so that it would be able to construct 19 km of roads
in the Bukoba area. The Government would also ensure that roads constructed
under the project are properly maintained and would provide the required funds
(Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Incremental Local Staff
52.       In order to strengthen TTA's capability to implement the project,
funds would be provided so that it continues to employ the present Factory
Superintendent and a Chief Engineer at TTA's headquarters. These expatriates
would oversee TTA's factory operations, construction and improvement program
and train local counterparts. Two internationally recruited Resident Engineers
would be employed, by not later than December 31, 1980, and based at the
existing Katumba and Lupembe factories respectively. The Resident Engineers
would be responsible for running the two factories, maintaining its vehicles
and training factory technicians. They would also inspect quarterly the
repair and maintenance of equipment at the Bukoba and Mponde factories, and
supervise installation of new machinery and equipment at Ukalawa and Mwakaleli
factories. The above-mentioned four expatriates (a total of about 204 man-
months) would be employed at a man-month cost of about US$2,000. 1/ In
addition, in order to assist TTA in the improvement of its management and
accounting systems, organizational structure, crop husbandry and technical
activities, short-term consultants would be employed (6 man-months) at a
man-month cost of about US$10,000. 1/ These consultants would be engaged as
and when required upon agreement between TTA and the Association. All of
these expatriate staff and consultants would be qualified and experienced and
would be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
1/ Including the man-month rate, international travel and subsistence.



- 18 -
53.       To assist the Iringa Region administration in implementing the
road construction and maintenance program and to manage and operate the Road
Construction Unit to be established at Njombe (para. 51), two qualified and
experienced engineers would be employed (48 man-months) by not later than
December 31, 1980, at a man-month cost of about US$6,000 1/, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association. The project
would also provide for financing the salaries of 225 incremental local staff
to be employed by TTA of which 12 would be in headquarters, 10 in Rungwe and
Njombe branches and 203 in the Ukalawa and Mwakaleli factories which will
start operations during the project period (Section 3.06 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing Plan
54.       The total cost of the project is estimated at TSh. 166.2 million
(US$20.0 million equivalent) including about TSh. 2.2 million (US$0.26 mil-
lion) of taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component would amount to
US$11.4 million or 57% of total cost. Details of project costs are included
in the Credit and Project Summary. The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 million
would finance about 71% of total project costs net of taxes and duties -- 89%
(US$10.2 million) of the foreign exchange costs and 45% (US$3.8 million) of
local costs. The remaining 11% (US$1.2 million) of the foreign exchange costs
and US$0.4 million of the local costs would be provided by NORAD to finance the
road component at Rungwe and Lushoto areas (para. 50). The Government would
provide the remaining US$4.4 million (US$4.2 million net of taxes and duties).
55.       IDA and Government funds provided to TTA under the project and
amounting to about US$15.0 million, including contingencies, to finance all
project components except those for credit and road construction and main-
tenance, would be relent by the Government to TTA for a period of 28 years
including 8 years of grace at an annual interest rate of 10%, which is the
current borrowing rate for parastatal organizations (Section 3.02(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. These terms are similar to those approved under the First Tea
Project, except that the interest rate was 8.5%, and are expected to assist in
establishing TTA's financial viability and to enable it to honor all its
obligations without need for Government subventions. Execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and TTA would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Tea processing machinery and equipment, vehicles, road equipment
and associated spare parts (US$8.2 million) to be financed under the project,
would be bulked as far as possible and would be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
In the evaluation of bids, qualified domestic manufacturers would be accorded
1/   Including the man-month rate, international travel and subsistence.



- 19 -
a preference of 15% or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Pro-
curement of machinery, equipment, vehicles and spare parts which cannot be
bulked in packages of US$100,000 equivalent or more would be procured, up to
an aggregate of US$300,000, in accordance with the Borrower's competitive
bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Association. Almost all
contracts for civil works (US$4.2 million) would be too small and scattered to
attract international interest. Procurement would therefore be by contracts
awarded following locally advertised competitive bidding in which foreign
firms would be allowed to participate. The establishment of fuelwood plan-
tations and tea nurseries (US$1.5 million) would be carried out by force
account through TTA. TTA has already acquired the necessary expertise
and, therefore, efficient and economic implementation is expected. As it is
scattered within large areas, road construction and maintenance work (US$0.6
million) would also be carried out by force account through the Regional
administrations, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
All consultants and experts to be financed under the project (US$1.0 million)
would be selected and employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association. Warehouses would be acquired following existing
Government procedures.
57.       Disbursements under the credit would be on the basis of (a) 100% of
the foreign expenditures and 85% of the local expenditures on tea processing
machinery and equipment, vehicles, road equipment, spare parts, consultants
services and internationally recruited staff; (b) 80% of the cost of civil
works; (c) 80% of local expenditures on roads construction and maintenance,
and establishment of fuelwood plantations and tea nurseries; (d) 80% of local
expenditures on salaries of TTA's incremental local staff; and (e) 70% of
local expenditures on vehicles operating costs. Withdrawal claims for
expenditures under (a) and (b) above would be fully documented. Disbursements
against expenditures under (c), (d) and (e) above would be against certified
statements of expenditures signed by TTA's General Manager, except for road
construction and maintenance which would be signed by the respective Regional
Roadl Engineer. The appraisal mission has examined TTA's accounting procedures
and staffing, and found that it is capable of maintaining the records and
documentation. The records and accounts covering expenditures for which
disbursements would be made against certificates of expenditure would be
subject to specific auditing and TTA, and the Regions, will retain until
one year after the closing date, all records evidencing these expenditures,
(Section 4.01 of the draft Project Agreement and Section 4.05 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). A separate opinion from an independent
auditor in respect of the expenditures and records related to certificates of
expenditures, will be prepared and submitted to the Association not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year. It is recommended that
expenditures incurred after July 31, 1979 on minor civil works and purchases
of equipment and spare parts mainly for improvement of existing factories
included under the proposed project up to an amount of US$1.0 million, be
financed retroactively under the credit.



- 20 -
TTA's Organization and Management
58.       TTA has recently undertaken a study of its management performance
and future requirements. The study recommended that TTA should decentralize
most of its day-to-day management responsibilities, except the marketing
activities which would continue to be carried out from headquarters. With the
decentralization, TTA headquarters' functions would be policy planning,
monitoring and evaluation, marketing and programming. TTA would have two
operational departments - the Marketing and Operations Directorates, and
three service departments - the Finance Directorate (including Administra-
tion, Planning and Accounting Divisions), the Manpower Development Division
and the Audit Division. All Department heads would report directly to the
General Manager. The last General Manager was reassigned in April 1980 and
his replacement is expected to be appointed shortly (para. 31). The appoint-
ment of a new General Manager would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The position of
Operations Director (to whom all Branch Managers, the Factory Superintendent
and the Chief Engineer would report) to be established under the new organi-
zational set up, would be filled by not later than March 31, 1981, after
consultation with the Association with respect to the proposed candidate's
qualifications and experience (Section 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
59.       In order to achieve effective decentralization at the branch/factory
level and to improve efficiency, it would be necessary to upgrade the staff at
the field level, with particular emphasis on the financial and managerial
aspects of Branch operations. Upgrading TTA's status and the salary grades of
staff, would enable it to attract staff of a higher caliber particularly at
the Branch level. The Government would therefore, by not later than December
31, 1980, take all necessary action to upgrade TTA as a parastatal organiza-
tion (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Factory
management, engineering and supervision would also be strengthened by employ-
ment of the two expatriate Resident Engineers (para. 52).
Accounts and Auditing, Monitoring and Reporting
60.       Separate accounts relating to expenditures under the project would
be kept by TTA and the Regions. Audited financial statements for the years
up to June 30, 1978, have been submitted to the Association and are satis-
factory. TTA's accounts would continue to be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association. TTA would also submit quarterly financial
statements together with a progress report within six weeks of the end of
each quarter.
61.       An integral part of improving the management performance of TTA and
its factories would be the monitoring and evaluation of the project. The Head
of Planning (Senior Economist) of TTA, in cooperation with the Project Prepara-
tion and Monitoring Bureau (PPMB), would be responsible for monitoring
and evaluation. He would prepare and submit detailed quarterly reports of the
physical implementation of the project and the use of funds, to the General
Manager of TTA who would submit them to the Association. Information on the



- 21 -
progress of the roads component would be made available to TTA by the respec-
tive Regional Road Engineer. Within six months of the completion of the
project, the Government (for roads component) and TTA would prepare and
submit to the Association a Project Completion Report, analyzing the implemen-
tation of the project and achievement of its objectives (Section 3.06(c) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.07(c) of the draft
Project Agreement).
Markets and Prices
62.       Out of the total Tanzania production of made tea (16,730 tons in
1977) the domestic market, through the local pool, 1/ absorbs about 20%
annually. The remainder is exported, mainly to the United Kingdom and
Western Europe through the London auction. Only top grades are shipped to
London and a cross-section of top and intermediate grades is supplied to the
local pool. This leaves the off-grades plus the balance of the top and
intermediate grades for direct sales to private buyers. As the Tea Brokers'
Association of London determines the individual country quotas in tea auc-
tions, this limitation has caused delays in TTA's sales and increased its
marketing costs. While the London Auction ceiling is expected to curtail tea
turnover, TTA's improved marketing contacts with private buyers would
facilitate an increase in direct sales. Therefore, TTA intends to reduce
London sales and increase direct sales. Since factory investment and
technical assistance provided under the project would increase the percentage
of top grades at all factories, the quality of tea available for direct sales
should improve and the price differential between direct sale prices and
London auction fetched prices should narrow considerably.
63.       In the past, the ex-factory price for the local pool sales was
below the export parity price. In order to rectify this situation, the
National Pricing Commission raised the price for the 1979/80 season from
TSh. 10.00/kg to TSh. 11.90/kg which brings it closely in line with expected
export prices. Based on the grade percentages traditionally supplied to the
local pool, the export parity price is calculated at 10% below the annual
average London auction price minus selling expenses, insurance, freight
and local costs. The Government would continue to review the local pool price
of tea and make any changes which might be required to reflect parity with the
average world market price of Tanzanian tea adjusted for quality and cost
differentials as outlined above (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
64.       The real price of tea (in 1977 constant dollars) is expected to
fall from its record level of US$2.69/kg (TSh. 22.23) in 1977 to US$1.49/kg
(TSh. 12.37) in 1985, leveling off at US$1.48/kg (TSh. 12.28) in 1990.
In current dollars, the projected price in 1985 is US$2.64/kg (TSh. 21.91).
These projections imply a decline in real terms of 18% during the project
period, and an increase in nominal terms of 19%. Tanzania's production of
made tea is expected to reach 25,000 tons by 1985 which represents 1% of tea
1/   Local pool represents the participation of the various factories in
meeting the domestic market's requirements.



- 22 -
world trade. The increase in production resulting from new plantings and
infillings provided for under the project will only add 3% to the 1985 produc-
tion level, i.e. 0.03% of world trade and would have no measurable effect on
world market prices.
TTA's Financial Viability
65.       TTA's continuous cash deficits and losses during the last six years
are attributed mainly to losses by its factories (para. 32) and the increase
in its administrative costs. The latter were brought under control when
headquarter staff was reduced from about 240 in 1974 to 93 in 1979; a further
reduction to 65 is planned. However, TTA's prospects of becoming financially
viable depend entirely on the profitability of its factories.
66.       The Government would take a number of measures aimed at establishing
TTA's financial viability without affecting the attractiveness of planting
tea (para. 29) by smallholders. Until completion of the project, the current
green leaf producer price (established for 1979/80 season) will be held
constant in nominal terms; MDB would continue to undertake annually detailed
cost analysis of TTA's operations; the Government may, after review of the
analysis, and in consultation with the Association, increase the producer
price as long as TTA's projected net operating income is positive (Section
4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government has also
decided to integrate TTA's extension service staff with the extension services
of MOA in line with its existing policy; this would relieve TTA from an annual
expenditure of about TSh. 5.0 million. Also recent increases of the tea local
pool prices (para. 63) would provide TTA with additional revenue of about TSh.
2.0 million. The project is also designed to complement the Government's
efforts to make TTA financially viable through financing of TTA's vehicles
operating costs (para. 42) and salaries of incremental staff (para. 53).
These measures, in addition to the results of the project investments as well
as improved management performance and operations, are expected to strengthen
TTA's financial position and turn its losses into a cumulative positive cash
flow of TSh. 31.7 million by 1984/85, the Project year five.
Project Benefits and Financial Results
67.       The main benefits of the project would be improved quality of TTA's
tea, increased sales volume and decreased unit cost through increased output
and higher efficiency. Net realization from sales would increase between TSh.
1.0 - 4.0/kg made tea, depending on factory location and marketing channel,
resulting in an increase of TSh. 14.0 million in TTA's operating profit of
which about TSh. 6.0 million from existing factories. The administrative unit
cost would be reduced from TSh. 3.0/kg made tea to TSh. 1.40/kg and the unit
transport costs from TSh. 0.90/kg to TSh. 0.60/kg. Total green leaf transport
costs for the current green leaf production would be reduced by about TSh. 1.5
million. Also the net return from mature tea holdings and the returns per man
day are attractive, even when current green leaf price is kept constant during
the next five years, and exceed those from coffee or maize which are part of
the farmers' cropping system (para. 29). An added attraction of tea planting



- 23 -
is that it brings continuous income to farmers throughout the year. This
project would also maximize the production benefits of smallholder tea growers
by assuring a reliable outlet for their increasing production through increas-
ing TTA's processing capacity.
68.       Projections, in current prices, of TTA's consolidated income show
that, after continuing to operate at a loss until 1981/82, TTA would have a
positive net income thereafter. In project year five, (1984/85) TTA's consoli-
dated income before provision for tax would amount to TSh. 6.0 million; this
compares with a projected without project loss of TSh. 1.5 million. TTA's
projected cash flow with the project indicates that the cash-flow would also
become positive during 1981/82 and by 1984/85 TTA's cumulative positive cash
flow would reach TSh. 31.7 million. This compares with continuing losses
without the project that could reach TSh. 16.0 million by 1984/85.
69.       The major quantifiable benefits of the project would be the incre-
mental foreign exchange earnings from made tea exports; US$22.3 million
(net in current prices) over the period 1980/81 through 1985/86, and savings
as a result of improved administration, and reduced green leaf transport
costs. In addition, the project is expected to generate unquantifiable
benefits from additional employment opportunities as a result of factory
expansion and fuelwood plantation establishment. The economic rate of return
of the project is estimated at 21% overall. The rate of return is relatively
robust to changes in costs or benefits. A 10% reduction in benefits or
increase in costs would reduce the rate of return to 18% and both events
occurring simultaneously would lower the rate of return to 14%.
Risks
70.       The major risks of the project are organizational/managerial in
nature. The performance of the various factories under the First Tea Project
was adversely affected by the standard of factory management and TTA super-
vision. However, TTA's management has gradually improved as local staff have
accumulated experience and expertise. The risk of unsatisfactory management
has been further reduced through provision of technical assistance in the key
positions of factory supervision and engineering, short-term consultants to
further strengthen TTA's management and Resident Engineers at factory site to
minimize the risk of factory construction and rehabilitation lagging behind
green leaf supply. A second risk is substantially lower than projected world
tea prices.  Forecasts for tea prices have been based on a realistic view of
the key producing countries' abilities to achieve their expansion plans.
During the December 1979 Meeting of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts on
Tea, the producers agreed in principle on a system for supply management.
However, it is too early to readjust the prices based on the assumption that
supply would be controlled.
71.       The project is not expected to have any measurable adverse impact
on the environment. The tea factories will not be discharging any effluents
which could pollute the surrounding areas. TTA and extension staff will
encourage farmers to follow recommended husbandry practices in order to reduce
soil erosion to a minimum.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and TTA and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The draft Development Credit Agreement includes the following
additional conditions precedent to its effectiveness:
(a) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and TTA (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement); and
(b) appointment of TTA's General Manager (Section 6.01 (b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 14, 1980



-25 -                                                             Annex I
?as* 1 of 6
-. 3L 3A.
TANUI4 7A - 5OCt61L 1147CAT0LS DATA SHEET
.aFZEMCE 07a0UPS .XO_USED AwiZ2AEs
-A.MD AREA (-HOUSAND SQ. K. !                     Zu - YDS . C  Y sT  :x    -
,OTAL             945.                                                          SAME         SAME      sECt G'.
AGRICULTURAL       510. L                                    OS:T ?ECDMT      rzOG7u?HTC      24COhM!      L:iCotM!
L960  /b      g70      ES-.-.MATE  4     lE_'.CN    cGiOU?  o    '30Q4?  e
GN? ?R -A?-.A  ('-55)                     70.3        ll2. J      '3C0.0            306.1       209.6 i       67. 5
DIRiGT ZONS''D4  ?'R CAPITA
(LO4Ams OF C.AL EO1tVUL.)               41.Z0        i2.0       68.0              80.6         63. 9        62.5
OP lONTICN AID 71TAL STATISTICS
FO?UIAX.ON, 62.D-TEA6                   LO..2)  LO.:  L3.3      16.4
DRJA  ?OFWPI7AT0N (P.OCZ3r OF TOTA.L)  4. S           6.3         9.2.             17.1        16.3         24.o
P0PmtJlAUO  ?POJECTiOiS
POPM.AtIOU Ml YUAJ  2000 (9tHL'ONS)                           32.0
STATIONHAl  POPVItA(ION   2 MILLIONS)                         9'.0
YEAR STrAT7IONAtY 2OP2LAZON 1S  LACUD                      2145
?OMt'LATTON DENStI-
?'R SQ. '0.                           110          14. 0      17.J0             LS. 4       .9             5.$.1
?E  SQ. .0X. AGRICL:URAL LAND         2l.D         Z6.3       32.0              50.9       25'.3         L49.0
PFO3LATION AcE  TmUCTmEU  (PU0Cx3)
3-14 YRS.                            46.4          46.5       46.0              .4.1        43.1          45.2
15-64 YRS.                             51.0         51.1       51.0              52.9        53.Z          51.9
65 YRS. AND ALOV!                       2.6          2.4        3.C               2.3          3.0          2.8
PO ?tITON GORWA  LZ&Z (P DCEiT)
TOAL                                   2.2          2.7         3.0              2.7          2.4          2.7
UIJAN                                  5.0          6.3        8.5               5.7          4.6          4.3
C57DE BRaTH RAT! (P'  T3H00USAND)       47.3         47.0        48.2              46.3        42.           39.4
CiLWDE DEATH R.A! (?P!i THOUSASD)       Z2.3          19.0       36.0              17.2        15.9    ;      1.7
GROSS 9EThOUCTION  RATE                   ..            .2        3.2               3.1         2. 9          2. 7
FPtLLY PU.NNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNIUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..       93.6
USERS (PERCV?F  OF KARRIED WOKN)    ..               ..         ..                ..         12.2         13.2
FOOD AND XtllRTRlON
IDEY OF FwOO 2?.0UCTION
PUR CA.PITA  (1969-71.100)            95.3        304.0       93.0              96.3        98.2          99.6
?5L CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PTRCOlT OF
3EquRZuDaEn41)                     69.0          8.0        6.0 639.5                    9 3. 3        94.37
7WOtI8IS (GCRA3S PER DAY)            42.0          43.0       47.1              55.8        52.1          54.3
OF WJECa AIISAOL AIS  PULSE         '2.0/h       23.J       20.0              17.9        13.6          17.4
CHIL7D (AGES 1-.) 76C3A.I'Yt  &ATT      32.0         2.0         20.0              22.3       i3.35           1.4
iEALT3
:2-.2  E3SCTAYCT A; aLIT! 7ERis)    42.0             .7.0        51.0             47.0         S9.3         54.7
INPANT MOaTAL.ZT! lATE (PUt
IC0USANID)                                ..        3S5.0t   '325.0                 ..        105.$         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER *7ERCSY' Of
POPULATION )
,OTAL                                   .          1. U.3     39.0              20.3        26.3          34.4
uR"AN                                   ..         61.0       Se.3              53.9        58.5          57.9
lLA                                     *-          9.0       36.0              10.1         LS.8         21.2
ACCESS TO ECE7LA DISPOSAL (FERCEYT
Q PVOPOLTION)
OrtAL                                   ..           ..       17.0              22.5         16.0         Z. a
UBAN_                                   ..            .       8d.0              62. 5       55.1          71.3
XRAL ..9. ..                                                  14.J              13.9          3.5         227.
POPnXATI.30  P   ?S?EYS:Ctll.       21'00.5/t  '06577.3                                    13490.0/f  73.2  1I396.4  6799..
?OP'JLATON ?_A 'a1.2G ?ERSON          3300.0a.  '.64. 24.     3300./f           3506.6      5552.-        ;522. 1
POPFLATIOR ?Et OSPITAL 32D
7TAL                                 575.0/0      684.0          ..            502.3      1417.1         '26.5
;113SAS                                 ..           ..         ..             2021.4      i97.3         2 72. 7
(ORAL                                   ..           ..          ..           1403.6      24-3.9        1404.4
ADIISS IONS ?Q H0SPITAL                   ..            ..         ..              23.4        24.8         27.'
AVERAGE S;ZE OF  0O:SEHO01
.TAL                                    ..           -.4/c       .               4.9         5.3           5.4
'4MAN                                   ..          3.2/L        -               4.9         4.9           5. 1
URAL                                    ..          4.5/       5.3               3.j          5.-.         3.5
AVUACI .4103   OF ?UMSONS ?E  62071
-OTAL                                   ..           ..         ..
.23A.                                  ..            ..         ...
'UIRAL                                  ..           ..         ..                .            ..
2CC3S0  10 T  C-'C.TY  (?VCZqT
DF D3..EL 'INGS.)
OTAL                                    ..           ..         ..                ..        42.3         23.3.
A3AM                                    ..           ..         ..                ..        '  3 .5.i
.URAl  _.6



-26-                                                       Annex I
?s  z  of  6
-A3LZ 3A
TANL4.NtA - SOC'AL 2NDICATORS iA-A SdEET
tx2Ati'A                     REFERENCE  ORC0?S (AZWJS.ED  .;JUAiSc
JiS .~~~~~~~~~; SE2 Sm- 
SAtSE        SAE       .N 3EX. d='C1LER
MOST ?ZCZNT       =0CRA7HIC    rocot<          INCCtl
1960 /b      1970 /b _S721TAE /b         REGION /'c   GROUP 'd    5ROU?P  L
ttUCAr' ON
WLS'ED tN9tLL.!??T r.oAA0S
PR.'L4LR:     '20AL                   28.0          38.D       70.0              59.0        63.3          32.7
?tALZ                   37.0         46.0        79.0              64.2        79. i         87.3
TDMLE                  20.0          30.0       60.0               46.2        48.4          75.3
SEOONDARY:   T TA 1                    2.S           3.i        3.0               9.0         16.7        2'.4
.ALZ                     2.0          4.0         5.0              12.0        22.1          33.0
FE'LkU                   1.0          2.0         2.0               4.4        10.2          15.5
VOCAT:ONAL '.fROSL. (  OF StCCNDAIY)  23.3              ..          *                7.0         5.S           9.d
?U?EL-"'ACPSR RATIO
PR It.AiY                             45.0          .6.0       50.S              42.2        .1.0          36.1
SECONDAr                              20.0          19.0       20.2              22.9         21.7         23.4
ADLLT LITtRACI RATE (P?RC7NT)             9.5/i       28. ILL    66.0               20.8        31.2          54.0
CONSUMIPK'ON
PA.SSENER CA.RS mY  THLOUSAND
PCPULAT70N                             3.0           2.5        2.8               4.0          2.3          9.3
iLADIC &ECEVRE1  ?'M  7HOUSAND
POPULATION                             2.0          11.0       19.0              4.43         27.0         76.9
TV  LECZIVRS Pn  T75OUSAND
P(MtAT7.ON                              ..           0.3         ..               2.9          2.'         13.5
.'NEWSPAPE  ("DArLY CINRAL
0MRE5STr ) CIRC'ULAtION PER
TH30ISAND POtALATION                     3.0           5.0        4.5                5.6         S.3          15.3
CIFENIA ANNUAL ATTEWa2  PERI COAfITA  0.S               ..        0.2                0.4         1.1           2.5
LABOR FORCE
.0?AL LA30R -CRC'! (THOUSANDOS)       457S.0        5769.0    6488.0
rF'ALE  (?PYRCEV?)                    37.1          36.6       36.3              31.9         24.8         29.2
ACRICTLLTU  (PERCE'r)                 89. 3         86.0       34.0              77.6         69.4         62 . 7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     3.8           5.0        6.2               7.9         10.0         ;1.9
PAR-ITCEIATION RATE (PE5CSNT)
TOTAL                                   44.7          43.5       42.2               40.8        36.9          37.1
SALE                                     56.9         35.7        54.3              53.9        52.4          48.8
FE31ALZ                                 32.3          31.5       30.3               25.6        18.0          22.4
ECONOfSIC DE2ESNDEICY SAT7O                 1.1           1.'        1.2               1.2         1.2           1.4
'NCZ\~ tE 35 131r:2N
PS'RC5N .F ?A2.'rti "i;cZt-
,IECEIVEr B Y
R7.dSZ37 5  ?.CT-:      .          ?:; c   S...    2.3.           ..               ..           ..         12.2
_3'23 _S 2* ?'RZZ:-  *7 r":E:_~S3        ..        '2.:           ..               ..           ..         j5.i
S- *C ?'RCN7 3F0C                      .. .F                    ..                ..           ..         i6.2
povR-Y TAR5eT  ROi:?S
ESTt"!'AZZO AASOL.:?O'7Z       NC!
LEVFL (US$ PER CAPITA)
MFIAN                                   ..            ..      ;17.0             187.6         99.2        241.3
1LLRA L                                  ....                  89.0              96.S3        7.9         136.6
1STL"ATD ?EA:'             ItT   NCC.a
LEVLL iLSS P?E  'AI1TA)
T15AR                                   ..            ..       97.0             138.-         91.9        179.7
RU?.L                                    -            '.       S1.0              71.0         34.3        103.7
95T:-1:AAZO ?O? A.:0N  3ZLOW AAS0L=.
pOv'-Z!r :NColn  .ZVEL ;?ERCEZN
L'RXAN                                  . *.                   25.0              34.5         4.1          24. S
R~LkL                 ..                                       as 35.0           4r.7         32.9         37.5
. ioc avaL1able
Not appLicabla.
/a    -he ad4us:ed  group averages 'or each 2d.0cacor are popu0 acoo-lo eignted geome:rtz oeans,  ax:l.d:ag he  xctreme
*ai,es oc :he 'd'ra:or and :he oosc poou2'aced  ou.ncry Lin each g.ruD.  coerage of :ontries am.ong :he
I'dica:ors tepends o0 availAoLli:y of daca acd is aoc .n1.orin.
/b   'Jnlass otherwise noctd, data for 1960 re3er to )oy Fear 6erween 1959 and '961; for  ?970, oecweer. 1969
nd 1971; and fcr Most Reca:c Esc.ace, o:e.ee. 97. :Id 1977.
c      rs 3ouch of Sahara;   /d  'ov  ncome '529C or lass ncr zap-sa  147);       -  _aer Xiddle 1.1czoe
;S231-550 pcr caq:A,  5974;:           ' .aiarind 7anizaa;          L9 .367;    h    6            :96';         Rgs-
tere(, no: all orAc:ice  in che coun:ry.
lost ?ccent  3s:-   ce of  N?P per capi:a Is for 1978.
Asgu t. ;979



Page 3 of 6
tottotoli  oarale  ttece.of O. lak of oari8d           floitt-l        .oPOt hoed by dtflct-                                   -Mor.100lot    h  tac,  tIh  datea. -    ddbh0t .f-.
7010. otlooed .00,.     for .-h 101400C.P   o.10.flfttfofi  *00 'ldu   Oh.Ic O    .I-o. Of 00h. toidiost   ae  000  -
000uaCO0e.aro  0  OJb 4000.Coet0.  f -O00c   on   00iOiOOOtpoo0  oolblr    ft    004l I0 nt dait-s   D_ .   1ctak of dcOa.
.P        pdl hetoodeq  *6 S.    It.-   00010   od-0001   o0a  06 sl     oo..ti.(.0..
otol   *tal eufoSo 000 c01104  1  100 ca  10.1at -0000-.0.    -A0   W.Oo) 4104A4op their roopooin                                   r of heepitLL  ot.bd
hootolcooo  -nol  -caCo ooOoee of aaioo.0 44et.  coc  0.0  e.*.Vruo y                Lo0 . lepblio sti 001.000 gia.l  -d opeoolsed ho,pIoL. VWd C"
or pooococip fo  ott .. paooor    r. .00 .0    00.000 palr.a so                 "oiiatteios oare...   Weeqitalio. ocaloo  pOouotly 0tAtfed by
0.00 .rc 0.0 ioaidcd.  Ruoti. 00.11 -. 10c. fooloo. heoLih  -4w
177  Pr  WOc 7007 -0.,p.r0.0000.0=00   0  0.,.00.  sobt-   Vut..                  01  sOee-   p -rseeol   0.0ff ciy . pbyoh.ta  (U.c, by . ati0.100
-                    oa~~~~~~.Ic-L.tea OP   --Iecoodio  0.00d -  W..IA hA&" A.0..0  (1979-77 bee.);          ejcs.0.0.  1afog.  co.) olc-hf off.r 1-.-ptlt.0wci
1960. 1900, cci 1975  ot                                                                po..t o. 191min4 rrn4c of ectIto  foiLOieo.
Ada,!!ei:ceco  hcep   o  bed - local) -Ww  of *fteisa0  or 41".06.010
v.000 1.iwqT10  Pot 11110 -  .eeol tsaaoCe   of  -r97 oeo                       to'LA"i0.O    n00  by Ohs -oCoc  of 6.a-
th-I           -f                                                                                                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~0000.c   f  cehltCoooeorhtoh I octal. cohn  .0   oa
POPTLAIMO  ANDO VITTAL ('0AT10                                                             1(aucool  oolCt  o  I I       roop o,:71f 10040l  tectolvil000
.-.tS. or  -o  codt-yact oa.aoe 960, 1970. cod .197  tIt..o hcaaoolt  fof     ctot                                -iol pu,oc          tio..latl do a0.a   f hOO.-
lobetooOo.otloo(tettOf of001.1  - RaLo. o  uOa  I0 00001  dop.1a-01   07
of taco omoog oc0trtcs.                                         ear6.  of p00  pot- co..  I s .1.,    -r..  adoirl  cApo    --Cat.-I
POt co  . - fi-year yoootPot oqoor  kIlrn.ra (100 hocatac)                             rnooccpidct rt..
00I 00   re.Utoctooctoot bod  -.o o d                                                                                       toniioa.      oo.c10.cdooc 
POoolOloocoo  oroctore(ca-oon   - Chldlrc  (0I-ia y_.aoo) .rtz-
Per.latct  oo-t  Tao 'crOOO7    tal.odt 000.0 - 10.00004%  oea              PtieatcOo     -100.. otfl   Total oat ftol a ooroLlt..  of all aeaa
cr0.00 0 rotc  00 0001 coo  0000 oa-,oeo Pcyo.ottot.  for .1950-40          atId  90-fl0  10.1 00 oo-tt gcbc   of  .croooh-It-ty                   0.0..
(9t)-'0 oitt I 9071                     oi.000a;crs.1ylciiI                                                                                     "00-:. oa  61  ro L"o" tot    o
Croo  rt, rf.(ot tooao    -Antal  i   06iTh. Par ttat..o  o                     oiffcroao  lootto  If  Mot.. 1, Oocao... i     for 000r.000  PIt  -.I-ca.l o
I1-00POe.000   o-s  cV"tOtrotl  oYtta  011  o16.0at.                                   catiot caro siC sty 000004 100  Lot    bead.             0ppIl. 000 hel.1   c
970tattc    oc,100      000   oth   0   0044o  .0-                                    ooaoft0001           IoLL, cod !-L.o   Co"tsts    _60;  eooay odia
oC.r, d It        Ito=Oa 0t00od0000  000  1   90  t   07                                   o  osqotoc ccLeast.1. totya,  fcpovtotop  atcOt00c0
sod                         !',bti         19 fto-ea   totbo Io  11.15fo0sel-cea   197Otc.  id.. g      I.strOi  roatoa.1 00Ooto  POaiOts  iaettt.0i0.oba  for poOh
etootlo   ertiIty   00cc  ocooll  fi.,-yot  vocc aaad .a   s  96.                ooa.      a polet a     orc   o  eo           IdsO,   I   mt.tol LeatItOl   10-
olsc ctprourto      A      .n.d h-                    ,Mu:.1b._L prO .ar                          co05   *00Oy 1001 of tt    ycfor   ftaOO   1  h   0.
Vco,0 0000 oc-acr  lOoooc  00tarrat   ool  - Pcoae    of o96Cott-e. 10Vt010.I.
tootodsatofoiit-Oatte  oo  15-4 yor) we. ee  o.ioocoorol Idl: itear,roa 700004    -;I N71.10000  adLs (aMeto roodC tad nto)At
loonof 700 00000100  ct 001101107l00 -,tad..I  0tor_ of prPs.ooocre10000080                                       ......10.ct)   - Paaucrt te  caO -1000 t
0I.0100 a".o   _ pedcotoobofdot loo                                                                             1-ita10004lcohllt  c.00.; by.~ oOltO c.ia -hbe,  Ose   co - Oltoorr
ococyoulelsae 1octfoo  oorlto aal1hls10  0.300.p.rtaprs         4400- 11.-T V.00     " trot000.0     Loiat ... C.   ALlt typo. of VectOr   0.0 - tad)
1q4o If !-d ooed-0foo P., -.tt. a,904 Icooco                -b,  le 8P.0---.,00.  ho  ofcc-var   for        .....t yar -f.ly ath  cnOsi  010               coatOo. ..
C             .:,J7,or otoo. 00         ol. IidIcol                             rie   at  oeo  ro           ol Irtto       All1 tot. raO ffe -t
Per oo,. egol, f tocot   ro VI-c dcy) -  P-.o-0   odcsoo  po.t.               io- rcoo           ..;r. Ito(otOoca          oA.pulttPotul - 51   -I."nos. 000
caia00  opyo  It   a   cr               .     .1   f  000  tdo    a000o   tll   soo  ilaot  wrpr.  ..   0     old.ai    ci
C  ticaoslaeeo   igeo   o.lp00.prtycc2   oeh L.04tjy  [.f it- ppOtr  00 L c. .-   oo                                                    ....c io oo   di
of .1.1  006 -u."aoreitofhih1 1   Id114Iord      .        VIo.thoatl   00.          Ic   osoa. oia-fC 00 Y-             oconr    os  orn 000 oa-   of VI000
fl Rast  f 00.0.1,roooo  * 00ovorst  or tcetI. 90,*41                 V y- sloc.. t
Pro  0010 orroO  .0-0 oed 01-0.  tad polo  -                                                                   -0.01trcatpl  of foo
tortat fe o.eoi  scopolo.  P.,    par) cay P0. Ab 1b 00 fort.Wil"eato -2 tceltfo   010 tp005.  lco.S.IostlL.se
P".00    10000   olI P    1I 0.-yar00000   040 10      1960.-1900           loes.1rr 100000.07__   -tlabor fot  000               ..0 O d tcio.   oiO,attiO.04  cd
0                    toO~~~.   ad'                hbtd     e    m           9tta   rt"-                      -155  o d.11.tOy  0.00 Yaa   so  s  poO- eoOsOO tO total 00  foot.-   a    bl
etc gst  of  Ij Io  00000.04  lAo. hirP-OOa.                                            -tea.lbrIooo    oosac   f000roetO    c.lteo
ted .e.tArr v110, coperosoasso -o OhIrM    Prot.oir  pat.letiof  d"O.cr
L0.01. ocicc  of 00. -' Ie.  Iaerltoooo  roa o qal   000   .1                         etouId  tVichc o II prso..c.. doOet  2   00..a    Oro   0pr
0L000 0a040.fC'000'! 1.A0OT....
000.000  00000 t.ooal (000-0 o        Vog.oftooo) -g"oc  1rbo.  Ott           1000. .0001000 000000,)  La         . ltoioval 7719 00   t01.)   .00cd  ual
citOtol Oy 1010..0000hOliOObo -0. dtb-.I4_. 000  00-"00                          tffor.tobia.                                     f,I  -T ..1
Pooaiot10  000 OhOoclor - P Po.at   d     tie   yotscr Of_- ooaiit.o   -         coo  -aoo  po..ood  ats.d o,fl.itj    r.0t7.. f1t
prrctlV    qooIfIt  on    .01. -        ocol  th oeoc-Oy1..                         toOooaoo        f eolttoo 000, dvoO  000*  boi t (tortot     abtot 
Oooli.t 0.00 .0    oro      ooaiiO   0            _.0 0- lsoflor ofhb_ .000  o                              q.olco   o-t   0  rorol) If 60-t - 0)00    65Olt  coo o.rV
-y dabtblast. cd   .... ROduta 000-             p0-- 0.1   000  0..4b   1oIOttO                          L. coo   OacoordbIa Rf0.00000. r
00d000000.1 040040.
-C _V.  ZW-CM  DISTR a00050   atSoocI1.. hrOir
F.rmtm, ,  -1I.        (bt00L.10 Aa. Irond) -Prof orie   OsOaSt 



TANZANhIA                                                                                P.,. 4 of 6
E-.nomIc Or-ooop-t  out. Sl,e-
Oct.01                  poovistosol                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~                       ~~~~~Pro j..Ld -  vro    tw1Crowd  Mlt.s      Sta.-  if
19/2        1973          974       I 1975            1976      1977         1_91         1979         198O         1987         1990         1972-77          1977-85       1985-90        CGDP
A. NA9ItONAL ACCOUNtS
(MI lio- US $ at 197/ PriC...
1.  uiA'                                              271j.9       2t62.2       3004.1       3119.4        3364.1       1542.4       1734.1      3890.2       4069.7       5105.8       6502.3           5.0             4.7         4.9             100.0
2.  Gol-n f-ru  T-rso of TIrdo (T7)                   -161.0       -207.5       -348.9       -34l.;        -69.9       -116.1       -135.2       -174.5       -223.4       -251.8       -278.4            .3.3
3.  Ccoo  Ioo.eeorl  Coo.o                            2612.9       2454.7       2655.8       2773.7       3294.2       3426.3       3598.9       3715.6       3846.2       4854.1       6223.9           5.6             4.4         5.1             96.7
4   jolports                                          1084.7       1010.8        895.4        839.4        751.0        802.4       1063.9        904.8        924.7       1102.8       1330.4          -5.9             4.1         7.8             22.7
5.  lopoots - VOIUDCo                                  1054.7      1004.5        741.3        734.5        824.5        686.3        674.7        700.8        746.4        907.0       1164.7         -8.2              5.5         5.1             19.4
6.  Coports  - rr udjo,td                               893.7        803.5        546.5       493.7        6bl.1         488.3        53JJ.5      526.3        522.9         655.2       886.3          -5.2            -0.6         b.2              19 4
7.  Annunce Cop - I odjostod                            191.0        207.5        348.9       345.7         89.9        116.1        524.4        378.5        401.8        447.6        444.2            .               .           .                .3
0.  totalI ColXtt'ptlos                               2163.0        1986.3      2403.1       2555.0       2854.9       2986.6       3404.5       3471.1       3540.6       4371.5       5448.3           6.6             4.9         4.5             84.3
9.  looco toont                                         640.9        602.2        755.7       669.3        6j5.7        671.9        718.9        673.1        707.4        930.0       1219.8           1.0             4.2         5.6              19.0
10.  N9.atooal Sav luo                                  430.4        464.5        304.1        314.2        676.4        537.1        325.0        412.0        416.6        617.9        951.7           1.1             1.8  .      9.0              15.2
11.  Iloorostic Sontngs                                 449.9        469.4        252.7         218.7       639.3        439.7        194.4        294.6        3U5.6        482.5        175.6         -0.4              1.2        lu.0              12.4
17.   ;oDp at.zorrens  US                              1564.1 8                  2239.1       2564.4       2761.4       3542.4       4335.7       4686.5       5393.1       9941.7      18603.0          17.8            13.8        13.3
B.  S4;h'A00 C)k(Pl1U
(Sh-re of CDP ot 1977 Plco-)-s
1.  tt.dootry                                           lo.3          17.5        16.0         15.1          14.4        13.8         13.0         12.3         12.3         12.3          13.2          1.3             3.1         6.4
2.  A6rlooltotro                                         51.1         54.8         46.8        48.6          50.4         51.8         50.8        58.4         50.1         48.3         47.1          4.7              3.8         4.4
3.  servIcIs 32.7                                                     28.5         37.2         36.4         35.3         35.2         36.2        36.8         37.6         39.3          39.6          6.3             6.0         5.1
C. P I oCEs
1.  Copo rt Ptice dolesx                                 36.4        43.3         64.2         63.6         /6.1         Q00.8        91.0         95.9        102.5        142.2        190.8          22.4             4.5         6.0
2.  1.1toet 1P4c8 Inkes                                 43.0          54.1        87.1          94.6        92.98        100.0       113.8        127.7        146.3        196.8        250.7         18.4              8.8         5.0
3.  fntTIo uft4Dwoe                                      94.7         80.8         73.7         61.2         92.7        100.0        89.0          75.1        70.1     .   72.2          76.1
4.  C.OP Doflosor (Os $7                                 56.4         70.1         74.5         82.2         82.1        100.0        116.1       120.5         132.5       194.7         286.1         13.1             8.7         8.7
5.  Av-rge.           ILchto.s Rate (l.Ios$)            7.143        7.021       7.143         1.414       8.379        8.274         7.689
O). StL.LCltE) INDICA'IOhS                                              1972-77      197b-85      1985-90                                                                                                                                                           Ili
1.  ICRK                                                              4.40          3.93       3./2
2.  Eol.ort  floolollty                                             -0.22           0.11       0.77
3.  Anerofo hoostlo 5I051085 llto                                   17.2            7.3        11.4
4.  Avetofe NatIsl Sovings KAtt                                      19.8          10.9        1J.8
5   M-rgfIlv  NotIonal Soologs Onto                                  -6.24          0.23       0.25
6.  Import/OP            v                                           29.8          23.2       20.9
7.  loncsatsooot/C0                                                   2.40         18.9        19.4
0.  8esource Cop/COY                                                  /.8           9.4         8.0
2                                                                             ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pesov.  Pron.
E.  P      FI1.14  I0NANCE"/                                                                                               Aolu l       Aet".l          sr..
(Milli-o TSbillings)                                  1965/66       1972/73     19/3//4      1974/75      19/5/7b      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79
1.  Cur-etL R-vet.u.                                     111        2357          3023        3946         3919         5250         6082         6702
1.1  -.-, lovosos                                        602         1927         2510         3161        3302         4644         5317         5721
2.  C.reont lopesdttoro                                  707         7223         2705        J961         3716         5022         5847         7670
3.  Conerissest SavIngs                                    9          134           238        -1I          203          228          235         -969
4.  7rulG8 CrooLts                                        ..           62           214         377         469           826         709         1250
5.  Sr-plus Av-lble too Flnsncttg
D  volopssot Evpe-dit-te                           ..         196           452         362          672          694          944          201
6.  LIv-lsp-nst LEptdit-te                               230          956          1642       2225         2253         2763         3585         5057
/.  nOrsll Dofllt;                                                    _ 768      -1190       -1863        -15B1        -1969        -2641        -4776
8.  riasst.Inf oFrn Sh eololt
.otornal L.s...                                   83          456           467         461          564          277          660         1200
Ouasst Ic BorrowIngts;
8o-klfg Syoros-                                            269           521         834          510          ..           464         3195
OMltr                                          . .          25           202         368          447          ..          1517          581
1/  r1966 potoAs and          tdes Iss  yesr.                                                                                             8I1A
2/  C-ntr-l Lcn-reot.                                                                                                                    JIsnomy 3. 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                                                                      Page 5 of 6
Baln;ce of Payments and Exte,rnal Assistance
(Million US$)
Ae tual              -                          PrelIminary               Pruoectio 
1972        1973         1974         1975        1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1985         1990
A.  Susmt,iry of Balanice of Payments
1.  Exports (inct. NFS)                                           j84.3       434.6        476.0       467.0        632.1        686.3        613.9       672.0        76532       1289.4       2222.0
2.  imports (lmlcl. NFS)                                         466.1        546.8        779.8        793.8       697.1        802.4       1210.7       1155.3      1353.2       2170.2       3335.5
3.  Resource Balance                                             -81.1       -112.2       -303.8      -326.8        -65.0       -116.1       -596.8      -483.3       -588.0       -880.8      -1113.6
4.  Net Factor Service Income                                      -5.9          7.4        -5.2         -7.3        21.5        -18.7        -24.6        -47.5        -66.5      -137.0       -266.8
1.  Net Interest Payments nf which:                            3.2         11.2          8.9        -3.1        -17.9       -16.4        -15.8        -37.8        -55.9       -119.8       -239.2
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)                      (-11.1       (-12.5)     (-13.6)      (-16.2)      (-19.5)      (-22.1)     (-24.7)      (-27.8)      (-35.0)    (-121.8)    (-250.2)
2.  Direct Investment Income
3.  WorkeLs Remittance (Net)                                  -9.1       -18.6        -14.1         -4.2         -3.6        -2.3         -8.8         -9.7        -10.6        -17 .1       -27.6
4.  Other Factor Service  income (NeL)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                                        -4.2          5.0        45.2         92.9        55.4        116.1        115.0        195.0        218.4        384.9       678.3
6.  Balaiicc on, Currenit Account                                -91.9       -114.6       -263.8      -241.2        -31.1        -18.7       -446.4      -335.8       -436.1       -632.8       -702.0
7.  Private  l)irect Investment                                    0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          5.0          5.4          5.7          6.1          8.t.        12.0
8.  Capital Grants                                                 14.0        18.6          6.5         34.9          2.9        13.9          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Pub I Ic M & L1T Loans
9.  Diaborse-mnts 1/                                             109.5        113.6        161.3        249.5       122.4        177.8        173.2        210.5                                                   1'.
10.  Amortization IT                                              -34.2        -23.7        -18.8        -18.0       -21.9        -26.4        -26.8        -54.8                                                   in
11.  Net Disburseme,nts 1/                                          75.3        89.9        142.5        231.5       100.5        151.4        146.4        155.8
12.  U:ie of [MF Resources                                           0.0         0.0         60.3         25.2         23.7         8.8         17.0         30.0
13.  Short-term Capital Transactions                                 7.2       -17.9          7.5         -5.1       -38.3         35.1         60.0        120.0
14.  Capital fransactlions,  5.e.i.                                 54.8        49.0        -47.4        -30.1       -10.8        -26.0          0.0          0.0
15.  (3iatige in Reserves (- = increase)                          -59.4        -25.0         94 4        -15.2       -46.9       -169.5        229.0         24.3
is.  cranLts aid l,.ans Coms-itmwnt
1.  Official Grants 2/                                             9.8         23.6         51.1        127.8       119.0        130.0        200.0        216.0
2.  Public M & LT Loans                                            65.4       107.1        260.4        151.8       194.1        197.3        225.3        269.9
2.1  IbRD                                                      -            -          65.0         30.0         37.0         53.0        25.0         66.0
2.2  IDA                                                      10.8         22.6        61.2         10.0         52.0         49.2        73.5         63.0
2.3  Other Multilateral                                        3.3          1.8          7.1        18.0         10.8         33.5        27.6         18.2
2.4  COverisments, of which:                                  47.1         82.8       127.1         93.7         82.7         61.3        98.3         30.0
Centrally planned economics                            4.9          3.0        76.5          5.4          -            -           2.6          -
2.5  Suppliers                                                 -            -            -           -            -            -            -          80.0
2.6  Financial Institutions                                    4.2          -            _           _           11.7          0.3          -          10.0
2.7  Bonds                                                     -                                                  -            -  
2.8  Public loans, n.e.l. 3/                                   -            -            -           -            -            -            -           2.8
3.  Other M & LI  Loans (where available)                          26.4        18.6          5.6          2.9          6.0          -           -             -
C. Memorandum Items
1.  Grant Element of Total Commitments                            49.2         83.4         63.1         56.4         66.6        56.8         45.5         32.8
Average Interest                                               3.6          0.6          2.3         3.0          2.2          3.2          4.5          5.4
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                                       28.1        47.8         32.2         31.9         38.8         35.1        32.8         25.5
1/ Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1979-1990) on blend Bank/IDA terms.
2/ Excludes technical assistance grants.                                                                                                                     EAI DA
3/ Represents commitments to cover projected balance of payments deticit.                                                                                    January 2, 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                             Page 6 of 6
Debt- and CredlLtortbiness
Actual
1932        1973        1974         1975        1976         1977        1978
A.  Medium antd Loag-Tere Debt (Jlisborsed Only)
(US $ Million)
1.  rutal Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)                 441.7       557.1        728.3       917.1       1029.2      1123.4       1213.1
2.  Including Utidisbursed                                      835.5        987.3      1280.5       1359.0      1555.9      1649.3       1806.4
3.  Public Debt Service                                          43.3         39.3        32.4         34.1        41.6        48.4         49.6
3.t Initerest                                                    IL.1         12.3        13.6         16.2        19.5         22.1        24.7
4.  other M & LT Debt Service                                      ..          ..           ..          ..
B.  Dlebt Burdent
L.  Debt Service Ratio                                           11.3          9.3         6.8          7.3         6.6         7.1          7.8
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                               2.8         2.1          1.4         1.3         1.5          1.4         1.1
3.  Public Debt Service/Coverniment iteventue                    14.7         10.3         6.6          6.4         7.6          7.0         5.8
C. T,!reas
1.  Interebt on Total DOD/Total DOD                               2.5          2.2         1.9          1.8         1.9          2.0         2.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Tetal DOD                                  9.8          7.1         4.4          3.7         4.0          4.3         4.1
D.  Dkpendency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Cross Disbursementf/Iasports (incl. NFS)                     23.5         20.8        20.7         31.4        17.6        22.2         14.5                                                                    1
2.Net Tfranisfer/Imports  (imcl. NFS)                          16:2           ~         .:          29.2         14.4 
3.  Net TransCer/Grosse Sibturseme.ts                            68.8         7,          AH           92.8        82.1 4                   HA
e.  Eposure
1,  lBkD DInburseertaUtsUroes Tatel Dilbsr-smiants               16.9         19.1        10.4         21.0        14.0         17.2        17.8
2.  Batik Ceoup Diobursements/Groas 'Total Disbursen4enta    19.4             21.8        14.0         28.2        37.2         37.8        31.6
3.  1BRD DOD/Total DOD                                           12.2         13.4        12.4         15.4        15.1         16.3        17.3
4.  Bank Group DOD/Totdl DOD                                     23.1         23.8        21.1        .24.2        25.7         29.3        31.3
5.  1BRD Dlebt Setvice/Total Debt Service                        10.2         15.3        20.4         26.4        34.1         33.1        40.5
6.  Sank (aroup Debt Service/Total Debt Service                  11.1         16.3        22.5         28.4        36.5         35.5        43.5
O0tstanding December 31. 1978
Aeount              Percent
(US $ MillIon)
F. ExternIal Debt (Oisbursed Only)
1.  1B1RD                                                                    209.9                      17.3
2.  Bank Group                                                                379.2                     31.3
3,  Otier Multilateral                                                         61.2                      5,0
4.  Governments                                                               714.1                     58.9
of wiIch Centrally Planned Economies                                  317.3                     26,2
5.  Suppliers                                                                  16.5                      1.4
6.  Financial lIstitutIons                                                     18.8                      1.5
7.  Bonds                                                                      20.3                      1.7
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.        l/                                               3.1                      6.3
9.  Tutal Publtc H & LT Debt                  1/                             1213.1                    100.0
10.  Total public Debt (incl. undIsbursed)                                    1806.4                    148.9
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Total Debt Service 1979-83/Total DOD End of 1978                           60.57
j/  Incoludes T'anzania's notional share of 40% of RAG debt.                                                                                                       EAIDA
2/  Repernucnts DOD on loans to cover projected balance af payments deficit.                                                                                       January 2, 19t0



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.          Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Five loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                 77.2          90.8
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                   10.8     1.1
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                                  10.3     1.8
382-TA 21 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                         18.5     2.4
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                            17.5     9.0
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                           6.0     0.1
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                          21.0                    2.7
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                 8.5     1.8
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                               10.2     2.9
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                 10.0     4.8
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                               9.0                    0.8
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                             10.0     6.1
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                            15.0                    2.2
1172-TA    1975  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    1.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                               6.0     2.6
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                            18.0    10.6
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                   11.0     7.1
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                     30.0            10.1
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                            7.0                    2.8
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                          9.0     7.7
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                8.0      1.3
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                 15.0                    9.8
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex               11.5             3.8
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                        3.5
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                         7.2     5.6
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                         12.0    11.3
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                         15.0    10.8
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                   7.1
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                  27.5    11.5
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                  14.0    13.8
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                     12.0    11.0
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                   25.0                   24.9
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                  20.0    18.7
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                            14.0    14.0
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                  12.0    12.0
875-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                           30.0    30.0
1650-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper             30.0                   30.0
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                     20.5    20.5
1745-TA    1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.              11 0                   11.0
1750-TA    1979  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank         25.0~-                 25.0
S-24-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port
Engineering                                    2.5    2.5
Total                                                     276.7  41.5   431.3  357.1
of which has been repaid                                 8.9      -     7.7
Total now outstanding                                  267.8  41.5   423.6
Amount sold                           0.1
of which has been repaid           0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                         267.8  41.5   423.6
Total undisbursed                                         122.3  13.9   220.9  357.1
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/   Excludes $15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit being administered by IDA.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMDN SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours              35.0               0.5
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways              42.4               0.1
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours              26.5               0.9
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                 1.0
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.0                 5.9
Total                                           244.8               8.4
of which has been repaid                     56.4
Total now outstanding                           188.4
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4              0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       188.4
Total undisbursed                                 8.4               8.4
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(AS OF MARCH 31, 1980)
There are currently 37 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey of the tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and
effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba
area. Recommendations of the survey regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are also
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. In general, progress on the project is improving. The closing date
has been postponed to allow sufficient time for completion of the Mwakaleli
factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. The most serious issue is the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
lack of adequate financial support from the Treasury; this issue was taken up
during the last review and the Tanzania Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
is organizing a meeting between NARCO, the Commissioner for Public Investment
(CPI) and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) to address the issue
of equity contribution. In summary, although progress has been made, major
problems remain and will require continued attention. The closing date of
the Credit has been postponed by 12 months to December 31, 1980 in order to
complete the ranch development program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5. 1974; Closing Date - December 31. 1982
The project continued to show good progress since the appointment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather
than an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began. Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31. 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised completion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment
for the remaining three. The project faces problems with regard to expected
marketed production reaching potential processing capacity. This continued
decline in the marketed production is, however, puzzling in view of the price
increase and the attractive returns per labor day. An intensive analysis of
the cashewnut production issue is to be carried out by the Government agencies
responsible for review of agricultural production in Tanzania. The take over
of the industry by the Cashewnut Authority (CATA) and the consolidation of its
activities are proceeding; its management has improved since the appointment
of a new General Manager last year.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Progress has been made in improving control of materials flow for
civil works, promotion of a coffee production program, labor-intensive road
works, project accounting and disbursement performance, and increasing farmer
demand for inputs. However, project implementation continues to be slow.
Little construction work has taken place over the last five months of wet
season agricultural activities. Trials were planted late in two of the
three districts due to misallocation of project finance vehicles. Little
action has been taken on procurement. As recommended in the mid-term review
of this project, agreement has been reached on a number of proposed amend-
ments to the legal documents in order to make the project design more flexible.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project:  US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project work is virtually completed except for purchase of some
vehicles and completion of the sugar survey and the training program. In view
of this, the closing date has been postponed by 12 months. Kilombero Sugar
Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers continues and
is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower.than expected cane
yields. A new management advisory agreement for a further two years with
emphasis on agriculture will be financed by the Netherlands. Phase III of
the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed shortly. With regard
to the Sugar Development Corporation's request to Treasury to consider KSC's
proposals as to its debt-equity ratio, the Treasury has decided to provide
KSC TSh. 100 million as equity and TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish
sources. The loan will be at an interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years
repayment including 5 years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under
preparation and is expected to be signed by the Treasury shortly.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31. 1981
The Project is progressing at a slower pace than anticipated and
fishing operations are now expected to begin by early 1980. Eight vessels for
the coastal commercial centers are already under constructiono and procurement
of engines and fishing gear is in progress. Tender documents for the procure-
ment of steel boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center are being finalized.
The recent outbreaks of cholera at Lake Tanganyika have caused a setback in
Project activities on the Lake, particularly the Ujamaa Village Program, and
steps have been taken to speed up the identification of suitable villages and
the preparation of investment plans.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm
review of the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft pro-
posal for a three year Intensification Phase in six regions where potential
for increasing production exists, extending the project period from July 1979
to June 1982. The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify
the project activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the
project has been agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and
the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The project status deteriorated during 1978. The large scale para-
statal farms have been poorly managed, production is below expectation and
financial prospects are dismal. The ujamaa component proceeds slowly and
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank is actively investigating alternative
means of assisting village milk production and consumption. The foot and
mouth disease control investigation has commenced. The project will continue
to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30. 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, physical progress has
now been satisfactory for the past two years. The nurseries are well stocked
and maintained, and the current planting program on schedule. Progress on
fire protection, road construction and building is satisfactory. Procurement
of equipment needed for the next season is, however, delayed and project
accounts need updating. These are partly due to staffing problems; the
position of financial controller and workshop foreman became vacant as well
as the position of assistant project manager and silviculturist/economist.
Government is approaching bilateral agencies for recruitment assistance.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The level of regional commitment to the project has been good and
overall project performance is satisfactory; disbursements are on schedule.
However, some delays have been experienced in the delivery of equipment and
vehicles procured under the project, and shortage of trained extension agents
in the Region continues to hamper the crop development component. These
delays should not be over-emphasized since project management has been
effective in getting the project initiated.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2. 1978; Closing Date - December 31. 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didat.es have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
While some of the senior support staff have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry components, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
Future supervision missions will pay particular attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are still being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
95%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed to December 31, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at
about TSh. 109 million, an increase of approximately 5% over the appraisal
estimate of TSh. 104 million. The Government does not foresee any financial
problem in providing the required additional funds. Three Community Education
Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village development,
education and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational Training
Centers are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical assistance
and fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching funds dis-
bursed. Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship component of
the project are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30. 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for Village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvement. In fact, housing construction is in line with VMT
training which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment
of over 500 VMTs as Village Managers in January 1978. There are delays in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy experts for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on June 25, 1979. The Ministry of
Labor has appointed a representative to the Project Unit and is working with
the Ministry of Education on a plan for coordinating project implementation.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit became effective on August 24, 1979. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment of project coordinator is
being finalized and the consultants for the rehabilitation of project lodges
and hotels, have been appointed.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all equip-
ment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, rehabilitation,
regravelling and routine maintenance activities have been seriously affected
by the war in Uganda and by the termination of some expatriate technical
assistance. It is now necessary to recast the project by amending its
scope to address the problems which have been encountered in its implementa-
tion; these changes will bring the project in line with the Fifth Highway
Project. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement but might need further
extension. The technical assistance contract with the consulting firm "ORT"
expired in November 1979, and the Government is now recruiting individual
experts to complete the project.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979: Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. It is a continuation of the
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA) aimed at maintaining the
national trunk road system and will draw upon experience gained during the
previous project.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Closing Date -
June 30, 1980
This Credit is not yet effective.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974: Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it. Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million. The closing date has been postponed
by six months to allow for completion of the remaining construction activities.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Consultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro. However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates. These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30. 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods prior to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded in December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts
have been awarded. Project construction is on schedule at all sites. TANESCO
has obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost
is US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost
overrun of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants. KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. An EEC
Special Action Credit (No. 55-TA) in the amount of US$7.0 million to be ad-
ministered by IDA, has been allocated to this project.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30. 1980
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3. 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA 1/ - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5, 1980;
Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1. 1980
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action program to improve the operating
performance of existing mills. The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order to utilize this
amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which are essential parts
of the project, the Closing Date was postponed by one year to July 1, 1980.
1/   In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support of this
project is being administered by IDA.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Total commitments as of September 30, 1979 were US$4.8 million of
which US$4.1 million, US$0.4 million and US$0.3 million were for consultancy
services, training and project unit services, respectively. The procedures
for processing proposals have been streamlined and it is expected that the
pace of commitments and disbursements will be increased.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan and this credit are not yet effective.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 1, 1979. About 70% of the
loan amount has been committed.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project:  US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.
This amount, in addition to US$0.5 million provided by UNDP for this purpose,
is expected to cover the total estimated cost of the mediation service.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been
completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage
of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused
by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
About US$30.7 million of the loan had been disbursed to date. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the countries
concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976: Closing Date - March 31. 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$9.1 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1980
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business      Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing        3.96    0.70    4.66
1978            Highland Soap and          Soap Manufacture    1.38    0.36    1.74
Allied Products Limited
1979            Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                      6.67    1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC            2.71    0.54    3.25
Total Undisbursed                            2.71    0.54    3.25



- 48 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
SMALLHOLDER TEA CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATE SHEET
I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project               18 months
(b)  Preparation by                              TTA with Bank Group
assistance
(c)  Initial Discussion with IDA              : December 1975
(d)  First IDA mission                        : April 1978
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission : July 17, 1978 1/
(f)  Completion of negotiations               : April 28, 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness            : July 1980
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
1.  Government would not undertake any additional tea plantings
without making appropriate arrangements for establishing adequate
processing capacity for the subsequent production (para. 47).
2.  Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and TTA (condition precedent to effectiveness,
para. 55).
3.  Appointment of TTA's General Manager (condition precedent
to effectiveness, para. 58).
4.  Until completion of the project, the current green leaf producer
price would be held constant, in nominal terms, and would only be
increased if TTA's projected net operating income is positive
(para. 66).
1/    A subsequent Post-Appraisal Mission visited Tanzania in September/
October 1979 to reassess TTA's financial viability.



z I-
<0~~~~~~~\
ul
LIt)I
ozc: i_  4              N  V < 3  n  0  5     o
0:DW#A5



