CREDIT NUMBER 1037 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1037 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by Agreement dated August 30, 1979, (hereinafter
called the Norad Agreement), the Kingdom of Norway agreed to make
a grant (hereinafter called the Norad Grant) to the Borrower for
the construction and maintenance of feeder roads, including the
roads referred to in Part G.2 of the Project on the terms and
conditions therein set forth;
(C) part of the Project will be carried out by the Tanzania
Tea Authority (hereinafter called TTA) and the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (hereinafter called TRDB) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to TTA part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
TTA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and TTA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "TTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and TTA pursuant to
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
TTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "First Project" means the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Smallholder Tea Development
Project) dated March 3, 1972, between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation; and
(d) "Project Grower" means any smallholder tea .grower
participating in the tea planting program to be established under
the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1990, and ending March 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part G of the
Project through the Administrative Authorities of Iringa, Mbeya,
West Lake and Tanga Regions with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit


﻿-4-
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) cause TRDB to carry out Part H
of the Project in a timely fashion in order to facilitate the
implementation of Part C of the Project; (ii) cause TTA to carry
out Parts A through F of the Project and to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the TTA Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth; (iii)
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable TRDB and TTA, respectively, to perform such
obligations; and (iv) not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Parts A through E of the Project to TTA under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and TTA under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, which shall include: repayment in 28 years, inclusive of
8 years of grace; interest at a rate of 10% per annum and the
Borrower to bear the foreign exchange risk.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the TTA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accom-
plish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the TTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any pro-
visions thereof.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Part G.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall by not later
than December 31, 1980:
(a) employ a mechanical engineer and a road construction
engineer whose qualifications, experience, and terms and condi-
tIons of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, and whose successors shall be employed in accordance
with the provisions of this sub-section; and
(b) establish or cause to be established, a road construc-
tion unit at Njombe in Iringa Region, with a staff consisting of
the engineers referred to in the foregoing sub-section (a) and
such local and support staff as shall be required for the purpose.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association for its review and comment, not


﻿-5-
later than March 31, 1981, and thereafter not later than March 31
of each preceding fiscal year until the completion of the Njombe
roads included in Part G.1 of the Project, an annual work program
covering the fiscal year commencing on the following July 1. Each
such work program shall set out the detailed proposals for the
carrying out of such part of the Project in the period to which it
relates.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part
G.1 of the Project against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Part G.1 of the Project shall be used exclusively
for said Part of the Project until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Part G.1 of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of Part G.1 of the Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose their use in Part G.1 of the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part G.1 of the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Part G.1 of the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(c) Promptly after completion of Part G.1 of the Project,
but in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare or cause
to be prepared and furnish to the Association a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of Part G.1 of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to allocate as and when
needed all land as shall be required for the construction (and
operation) of the facilities included in the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, before undertaking or
permitting the undertaking of additional tea plantings (other
than those contemplated under the Project), make or ensure
that adequate and appropriate arrangements have been made,
for the processing of the additional tea production resulting from
such undertakings.
Section 4.02. In order to assist TTA in attracting competent
and higher level staff and to improve the efficiency of its
management, in particular in its branch offices, the Borrower
shall take all necessary action so that by December 31, 1980,
TTA's status as a parastatal organization shall have been up-
graded.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall continue to review the local
pool price of tea with a view to making any changes which may be
required in such price, to reflect parity with the average world
market price of Tanzanian tea adjusted for quality and cost
differentials.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall, until the completion of
the Project, (i) maintain constant in nominal terms, the green
leaf producer price established for the 1979-80 growing season and
(ii) continue to cause the Marketing Development Bureau of its


﻿-7-
Ministry of Agriculture to undertake annually, a detailed cost
analysis of TTA's operations.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-section (a) (i) of
this Section 4.04, the Borrower may, after review of the cost
analysis of TTA's operations and, after consultation with the
Association, increase such green leaf producer price, as long as
TTA's projected net operating income is positive.
For the purposes of this Section, the term "net operating
income" means gross revenue from all sources of operations less
all expenses of operations, including, inter alia, administration,
interest payments, adequate maintenance and depreciation.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part G.1
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower,
including the Administrative Authorities of Iringa and West Lake
Regions, responsible for carrying out Part G.1 of the Project,
or any part thereof, including without limitation to the fore-
going, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account under
Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
referred to in the foregoing paragraph (a) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested including, without limitation
to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect


﻿-8-
of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture have been used for the purpose for which they were provided;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such separate accounts, records and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the roads constructed
under the Project to be maintained in accordance with sound
engineering and financial practices and shall provide the funds
required for the foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) TTA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or TTA shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the TTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) the organization, powers or responsibilities of TTA
shall have been altered so as to affect materially and ad-
versely the execution by TTA of its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the carrying out by TTA of its obligations under the
TTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Norad Grant made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the Norad Agreement.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if (A) such suspension, cancellation or termination
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such agree-
ment, and (B) adequate funds for the Project are


﻿9-
available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been.given by
the Association to the Borrower and TTA; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the TTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and TTA; and
(b) the General Manager of TTA has been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by TTA, and is legally binding upon TTA in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the TTA Subsidiary Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and TTA, and is legally binding
upon TTA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date Nt"c4  f I.  X      is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.04 (b) and 4.06 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 5.02 shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF.TANZANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Byik     Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works under
(a) Part A (excluding          1,000,000    80%
Part A.1) of the
Project; and
(b) Part A.1 of the            2,000,000    80%
Project
(2) Driers under Part A.2            400,000     100% of foreign
and coal-fired boiler                        expenditures and
under Part A.3 of the                        85% of local ex-
Project                                      penditures
(3) Machinery, equipment,           4,600,000    100% of foreign
vehicles and spare-                          expenditures and
parts under Parts A,                         85% of local
D and G.1 of the                             expenditures
Project
(4) Technical assistance            1,000,000    100% of foreign
and consultants' services                    expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(5) Road construction and             500,000    80%
maintenance, excluding
road equipment, spareparts
and technical assistance
therefor


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(6) Salaries of incremental          800,000       80% of local
local staff under Part                         expenditures
E.3 of the Project
(7) Fuelwood plantation and        1,000,000       80% of local
tea nurseries                                  expenditures
(8) Operating costs of vehicles    1,000,000       70% of local
referred to in Part D.4                        expenditures
of the Project
Unallocated                     1,700,000
TOTAL          14,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expEaditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall he disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be made in respect of
Categories (1)(a) and (3) on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1979; and
(b) expenditures in respect of Category (2) above, until
the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the Association
to ensure the allocation of sufficient quantities of coal to the
factories at Katumba and Mwakaleli.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a continuation of part of the Borrower's
smallholder tea development program and is designed to: (i)
strengthen TTA's capacity to handle the increasing amount of green
leaf produced from all smallholder tea plantings, including those
established under the First Project; (ii) maximize the production
benefits of smallholder tea growers; (iii) improve the financial
viability of TTA; and (iv) increase the Borrower's export earnings
from the tea industry. It consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Tea Factories
1.   Construction and equipping of a factory at Ukalawa.
2.   Completion of the equipping of the factory at Mwakaleli
constructed under the First Project.
3.   Construction of extensions to, and equipping of, the factory
at Katumba.
4.   Construction of extensions to the factories at Lupembe,
Bukoba and Mponde and provision of equipment and machinery
therefor.
Part B:   Fuelwood Planting
Provision of fuelwood for use by factories, through the
establishment by TTA of a total of about 1,600 hectares of fuel-
wood plantations in Lupembe, Ukalawa, Bukoba and Mponde factory
areas.
Part C:   Tea Planting
Establishment of nurseries and the planting of tea by Project
Growers on about 200 hectares of land in the environs of Ukalawa
factory and an infilling program covering an aggregate of about
450 hectares of land in Rungwe and an aggregate of about 90
hectares each of land in Njombe and Lushoto districts.
Part D:   Transport
1.   Provision of about 28 7-ton lorries and 18 tractors with
trailers for use in leaf collection.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Provision of one four-wheel drive vehicle each for the
factories at Mwakaleli and Ukalawa, and one four-wheel drive
vehicle each for use by the Resident Engineers to be stationed at
Katumba and Lupembe factories.
3.   Provision of about 9 cars to TTA for use by its senior
and expatriate staff.
4.   Financing of the operating costs of the vehicles referred
to in sub-parts 1, 2 and 3 above.
5.   Provision of spare-parts for use in repairing TTA's vehicles.
Part E:   Technical Assistance   for TTA and Incremental Staff
1.   Planning and implementation of work under the Project and
strengthening TTA's factory engineering service and management
through the provision of about 17 man-years of technical assis-
tance.
2.   Improvement of TTA's management and accounting systems,
organizational structure, standard of tea manufacture and crop
husbandry through the provision of about 6 man-months of consul-
tants' services.
3.   Strengthening of TTA's factory, branch office and head
quarters staff, through the employment of about (i) 200 employees
for TTA's factories at Mwakaleli and Ukalawa, (ii) 10 employees to
be stationed at TTA's branches at Rungwe and Njombe and (iii) 12
employees at TTA's headquarters.
Part F:   Storage Facilities
Reduction of storage costs through the acquisition of 2
warehouses in the Dar es Salaam area.
Part G:   Road Construction and Maintenance
1.   Construction and maintenance of about 19 kilometers of
all weather roads in Bukoba and about 53 kilometers in Njombe,
such roads to be constructed in accordance with the road design
standards set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2, with the
assistance of about 4 man-years of consultants' services and
provision of equipment and spareparts.


﻿- 17 -
2.   Construction and maintenance of about 51 kilometers of
all weather roads in Rungwe and about 53 kilometers in Lushoto.
Part H:   Credit
Provision of credit through TRDB to Project Growers for
the purchase of planting materials and fertilizer.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 18 -
ANNEX
Road Design Standards
Width:             Minimum 7.50 m between centers of side drains.
Cross-Section:     Barreled cross-section; center line level
minimum 40 cm above invert of side drains.
Surfacing:         Gravel or crushed stone, 3 m wide, to a
minimum thickness of 10 cm.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower or TTA, as the case
may be, shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon as
possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or prequal-
ification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower or TTA as the case may be, shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   Orders for tea processing machinery and equipment, vehicles
and spare parts and road equipment and spare parts shall be bulked
together in bidding packages to the maximum extent practicable for
the purposes of bidding and procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of TTA and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Tanzania equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 21 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for machinery, equipment, vehicles and spare-
parts for such items which cannot be bulked in packages of
$100,000 equivalent or more, shall be awarded under the Borrower's
applicable competitive bidding procedures, provided however that,
the aggregate amount of such contracts shall not exceed $300,000.
2.   Contracts for civil works shall be procured in accord-
ance with the Borrower's applicable competitive bidding proce-
dures, provided however that, foreign contractors shall not be
excluded from bidding.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower or TTA as the case
may be, shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Assoc-
iation shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower or TTA as the case may be, shall before a final decision
on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest.


﻿- 22 -
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower or TTA as the case may be and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower or TTA as the case may be, shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or TTA as the case may be
and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower or TTA as the
case may be, shall inform the Association of the proposed modif-
ication, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons there-
for. The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform the Borrower or TTA, as the case may be, and state the
reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
The fuelwood plantations to be established pursuant to
Part B of the Project, the nursery development program included


﻿- 23 -
in Part C of the Project and the roads to be constructed and
maintained pursuant to Part G(l) of the Project, shall be executed
by force account through TTA and the Administrative Authorities of
Iringa and West Lake Regions as the case may be, and in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
19ft .
FOR SECRETARY


