-  CREDIT NUMBER 1037 TA
Project Agreement
(Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TANZANIA TEA AUTHORITY
Dated   ,A 2-1                       1980


﻿CREDI! NUMBER 1037 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   k4tt.       ?d            , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and TANZANIA TEA AUTHORITY (hereinafter called
TTA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that TTA agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TTA, a portion of the proceeds of
the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to TTA on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS TTA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TTA shall carry out Parts A through F of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment, and shall assist TRDB in carrying out Part H of the Project
as appropriate, with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural
and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist TTA in the construction
of factories, TTA shall continue to employ a Chief Engineer.
(b) In order to assist TTA in the operation of the Project
factories, TTA shall by not later than December 31, 1980, employ
two Resident Engineers to be stationed in Katumba and Lupembe
factories, respectively, and contirie to employ a Factory Super-
intendent at TTA's headquarters.
(c) In order to assist TTA in the improvement of its manage-
ment and accounting systems, organization structure, standard of
tea manufacture and crop husbandry, TTA shall employ consultants,
if a determination is made by TTA and the Association that such
consultants are required.
(d) The qualifications and experience of the staff and
consultants referred to in sub-sections (a), (b) and (c) above,
and their terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association. Any successors to the above-
mentioned staff shall be employed in accordance with the pro-
visions of this sub-cection.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) TTA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by TTA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to TTA by the Borrower shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 2.05. Prior to the establishment of the fuelwood
plantation in Bukoba, TTA shall carry out a soil survey to estab-
lish the suitability of the proposed site or other alternative
sites, and shall by not later than December 31, 1980, submit the
report of such survey to the Association for its review and
comments.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. TTA shall maintain separate records to reflect
the operating costs of its vehicles, including those referred to
in Part D of the Project and shall establish operating procedures
to ensure that such vehicles, in particular, those referred to in
Part D.3 of the Project, are used efficiently.
Section 2.07. (a) TTA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project (excluding Parts E through H thereof),
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) TTA shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through F of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts A through F
of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between TTA and the
Association, TTA shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
Parts A through F of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower, TTA, and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement and
other related agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
(d) TTA shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of TTA and any relevant records and docu-
ments.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. TTA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the TTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, TTA shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the TTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision there-
of.
Section 2.09. (a) TTA shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the TTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) TTA shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by TTA of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the TTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TTA
Section 3.01. TTA shall carry out its undertakings under
the Project and shall conduct its operations and affairs in
conformity with sound administrative, agricultural, financial,
technical and commercial practices, under qualified and experi-
enced management and staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, TTA shall at all times take all steps necessary on its part
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and privileges
which are necessary or useful in its operations.
Section 3.03. TTA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. TTA shall continue to operate, maintain,
and repair its factories, equipment, properties, facilities and
vehicles, including those financed under the Project, all in
accordance with appropriate administrative, engineering and
financial practices, and shall make appropriate provision in its
annual budget for the funds required for that purpose.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. TTA shall by not later than March 31, 1981,
appoint an Operations Director. Prior to such appointment, TTA
shall hold' consultations with the Association on the qualifica-
tions and experience of the proposed candidate.
Section 3.06. TTA shall promptly employ as and when required,
the incremental staff referred to in Part E (3) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TTA shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition and
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A
through F of the Project, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
under Categories (6), (7), and (8) of the table in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement on the basis of
certificates of expenditure.
(b) TTA shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
(c) TTA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) and the separate accounts referred to in the
foregoing paragraph (a) for each fiscal year audited, in accord-
ance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested
including, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion
by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditure have been used for the


﻿-6-
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning such separate
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of TTA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
TTA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿-~ 77-
-7-
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TTA:
Tanzania Tea Authority
P.O. Box 2663
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:                      Telex:
TANTEA                             41130 TANTEA
Dar es Salaam
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TTA may be taken or executed by the
General Manager of TTA or such other person or persons as the
General Manager shall designate in writing, and TTA shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿8-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By     ,     Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
TANZANIA TEA AUTHORITY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the        v   day of
19 9Q1.
FOR SECRETARY


