Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
c  /t)3 -,A
Report No. 5108-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
February 12, 1985
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
L'S$1.00    =  Rupees (Rs) 12.00 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM) ]
I meter (m)                             =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        =  0.62 miles (mi)
I hectare (ha)                          =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (ym3)            =  810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 cubic foot per second (cusec or cfs) = 0.028 cubic meters per second (m3Is)
1 kilogram (kg)                         =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (mt)                       =  2,205 pounds (lb)
1 million acre-feet (MAF)               =  1,235 1X cubic meters (Mm3)
1 cubic meter per second (cumec)        =  35.3 cusecs
1 metric ton                            =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                   =  1 million kilow tt hours (kWh)
1 kV                                    =  1,000 volts (l0 V)
1 megawatt (MW)                         =  1,U0O kilowatts
I kilocalorie per kilogram (kcal/kg)   =  1,800 British thermal units per
pound (Btu/lb)
1 kiloliter (kl)                            1,000 liters (1)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI; GOG; GOM; GOMP; GOR    April 1   -  March 31
j/ The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions
in this report have been made at US41.UO to Rs 12.00, except the
economic analysis which was made at a rate of US$1.00 to Rs 11.00.
O/ The metric system has been used in most cases. However, India is still
in the process of transition to the metric system; non-metric units are
still widely used and have been used in this report where a conversion
to the metric system may confuse the reader.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AD      -       Agricultural Department
CAC     -       Sardar Sarovar Construction and Advisory Comuittee
CAD     -       Coumand Area Development
CEU     -       Central Electricity Authority
OCA     -       Cultivable Command Area
CEPR    -       Canalhead Powerhouse
CPU     -       Centralized Procurement Unit
CWPC    -       Central Water and Power Commission
CWPRS   -       Central Water and Power Research Station
CWC     -       Central Water Commission
DRP     -       Dam Review Panel
ERR     -       Economic Rate of Return
EL      -       Elevation
FRL     -       Full Reservoir Level
FSL     -       Full Supply Level
GAU     -       Gujarat Agricultural University
GEB     -       Gujarat Electricity Board
6OG     -       Goverment of Gujarat
GOI     -       Government of India
GOMP    -       Government of Madhya Pradesh
COB     -       Government of HNabarashtra
GOR     -       Government of Rajasthan
GSCHF   -       Gujarat State Cooperative Marketing Federation
HYV     -       High Yielding Variety
ICB     -       International Competitive Bidding
ID      -       Irrigation Department of the GOG
ImD     -       Indian Meteorological Department
lIWRB    -      Inter-Departmental Water Rates Review Board
LCB     -       Local Competitive Bidding
MDDL    -       Minimum Drawdown Level
MISC    -       Management Information Systems Cell
M&I     -       Municipal and Industrial
BP      _       Madhya Pradesh
NWL     -       Maximum Water Level
NCA     -       Narmada Control Authority
NDD     -       Narmada Development Department of the GOG
MHPC    -       Narmada High Power Committee
NPDDC   -       Narmada Project Dam and Design Circle
NPG     -       Narmada Planning Group
NRC     -       Narmada Review Committee
NRD     -       Narmada River Development
NTPC    -       National Thermal Power Corporation
NWDT    -       Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal
PDD     -       Power and Dams Division
PME     -       Probable Maximum Flood
RBPE    -       Riverbed Powerhouse
REB     -       Regional Electricity Board
REC     -       Rural Electrification Corporation
SA      -       Service Area
SEB     -       State  Electricity Board
SLDB    -       State Land Development Bank
SmS     -       Subject Matter Specialist
SSP     -       Sardar Sarovar Project
T&V     -       Training and Visit System of Extension
VEW     -       Village Extension Worker
WALMI   -       Water and Land Management Institute
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
kharif     -  Wet season; June - October
rabi       -  Dry season; November - March
chak       -  Irrigation delivery unit of about 40 ha in size
taluka     -  Subdivision of a district



INDIA
NABMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ....... *..............*...**...*.**....* *.. *......  1
Introduction ...............      ..................................  1
Agriculture and Irrigation in India .......................... .    2
The State of Gujarat .......       ......   ..........  ....... ...   2
The Narmada Basin Development .. .............. ................. 3
Past Bank Group Support for Irrigation
and Power Development in Gujarat .......................... 5
II.  TEE SARDAR SAROVAR PROJECT    ....................................  6
General ............     ...........................................  6
Project Formulation, Preparation, and Objectives .............. 6
Salient Features of SSP .W............***.e..*................ 7
SSF Implementation Period         9..................... ..........  9
W-ater Supply ..............................................  ...... ... 10
Rationale for Bank Involvement in Sardar Sarovar Project ...... 11
III.  SSP CONCEPTS AND POLICIES . ....................... .......... ... . 12
Design Concepts ........... .. ..  .............................................. 12
Water Allocation Criteria .... ..... ......... .............. .. .. .. 13
Service to Farmers .........*................................   ...... .... .. 14
Operation Concepts ..* ........................... ..... ........... *.......... i5
Operation and Maintenance Organization ......... ................  16
SSP and Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project   .................. 17
Planning, Design, Construction, Operating, ande
Maintenance Principals   ................. ..................... 18
Environmental Effects ... ...............          ............. 18
This report is based on the findings of appraisal missions that visited India in
March, June, and September 1983, and comprised Messrs: P. Ljung, G. Fauss,
C. Diewald, R. Vick, R. Goodland, G. LeMoigne (IDA); D. D. Taneja (IDAINDO); M.
Barber, E. Frederiksen, L. Shanan, A. Dolyniuk, L. D. James, A. Gibbs, J. Brown,
N. Cessna (consultants). The essential contribution of P. Ljung during project
planning, formulation, pre-appraisal and appraisal stages are hereby gratefully
acknowledged. Editing done by Ms. S Fellows and vord processing by Mr.
J. Maddix, Ns. C. Batara, Mra. S. Douglas and Mrs. S. Vanjani.



IV.  THE SARDAR SAROVAR PROJECT AREA ...................... *........... . 19
Climate .................................. ................ 19
The Land              .......                .                      20
Regionalization .. ....                                             22
The People ..........        ...       ........................... 22
Crops and Yields .........                                 .         24
V.  THE PROJECT o ..........                   .......... . . . . .    26
Scope and Objectives .       ........  .......a............ *   .... 26
Detailed Features ................o..........    26
Material Planning .......................................... 31
Implementation Schedule .. ...... .    32
VI.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ......          ..    ....              33
Project Cost Estimates ........................ .....       ..... 33
Operation and Maintenance Cost Estimates ...... ................ 33
Cost Sharing             ......... .               .... *. ,. * ...... 34
Financing .......  ......................... ...  34
Procurement  ..        .     .     .     ..                 .....  35
Disbursements ..........  ...       .. .................. 37
Accounts and Audits  .. ........ o........... .-... - ........ 37
VII.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........... ....... .-  .... . ... 38
General            .................................... 38
Interstate Agencies .........................      .............. 38
Gujarat State Agencies .      ................................... 39
Training .....e............................. 41
Technical Assistance ..................... .............. 43
Centralized Procurement Unit .................................. 44
Evaluation and Monitoring ............................. .... . 45
Project Operation and Maintenance  ............................. 45
Supporting Services ...................... . .. . ...........  ............... 47
VIII.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. FARM INCOMES. AND COST RECOVERY ...... 49
Agricultural Production ...... ... . .. . . .* . .. a a *3.........  a a a a a ....a 49
Market Prospects ..................................a a . . .......... 51
Farm Incomes .................................................. 52
Cost Recovery .......*.......a................................ 52
IX.  BENEFITS. RISK. AND JUSTIFICATION    ............................. 55
General ...............  ................................. .... . 55
Agricultural Benefits ......................................... 55
Benefits from M&I Water Supply    ................. ........*... 56
Benefits from Power Generation ............*..   ................. 57
Other Project Benefits ........................... . ..................... *. 57
Assumptions for Economic Analysis        ............................. 58
Buildup of Benefits Over Time .... .  a .  a . a ............................... . 60



-iii-
Economic Rate of Return for SSP: 'The Ba3e Case  ................ 62
Project Risk . ................. * ...............................  64
X.  AGREEMENTS To BE REACUED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....     .............. 69
Government of India *     *....... ***so*....... ......................... 69
Government of Gujarat ............................................ 69
Recommendations               ..................................... 72
Conditions of Effectiveness . ........................ ... ....... 72
Schedule A: Standards and Criteria for Planning, Design,
Construction and OM of the Irrigation and Drainage
and X&I Water Supply Facilities of the SSP ....... 73
TABLES
1.   Priority Listing of Work Plan Topics of the Narmada Planning Group
2.   Design and Construction Scheciule for Irrigation and Drainage Systems
3.    Implementation Goals and Objectives
4.    Description of General Soil Classes
5.   Regional Profiles for Development
6.   Main Canal - Salient Technical Features
7.   Cross-drainage Structure Design Flood Criteria,
Methodologies and Procedures
8.   Annual Cement Requirements
9.   Annual Steel Requirements
10.    Detailed Cost Table - Main Canal
11.   Detailed Cost Table - Branch Canal Systems
12.   Detailed Cost Table - Distribution and Drainage Systems
13.    Detailed Cost Table - Training and Technical Assistance
14.    Detailed Cost Table - Summary Account by Project Component
15.    Detailed Cost Table - Sum-may Account by Year
16.   Detailed Cost Table - Projent Component by Year
(Schedule of Expenditures)
17.    Estimated Recurrent Operation, Maintenance and Energy Costs
18.    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
19.    Credit Allocation
20.    Projected Cropping Pattern for SSP Command
21.    Present Cropping Pattern in SSP Command
22.    Incremental Agricultural Production (By Volume and Value)
23.   Regional Changes in Average Net Farm Income from Crop Production
24.    Projected Changes in Average Incomes and Land Rent from
Crop Production
25.   Cost of SSP Components by Year (22-years)
26.    Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project,
Recurrent Operation and Maintenance Costs
27.    Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
28.    Economic Evaluation of SSP by Functions



-1v-
FIGURES
1.     SSP Implementation Schedules
Sheet 1 - Dam and Power Complex
Sheet 2 - Conveyance, Distribution, and Drainage Development
2.     Project Organization Chart - Opcration and Maintenance
3.     Composition of Each Unit and Area Under Its Jurisdiction for
Irrigation Service
4.     Boundaries of O&M Organizational Units Within the Command Area
5.     Lines of Communication, Farmer and Agency Units (DiM)
6.     Example Position Qualifications and Typical Sequence of Advancement
7.     Procurement Schedule for Civil Works - Main Canal
8.     Procurement Schedule for Civil Works - Branch Canals
9.     Procurement Schedule for Civil Works - Distribution and Draina4e Systems
10.    Index of Area Under Crop in Gujarat
11.    Index of Area Crop Yields in Gujarat
12.    Index of Agricultural Production in Gujarat
13.    Phasing of Economic Project Cost
14.    Projected Water Use in Gujarat from Different Sources
15.    Buildup of Project Benefits
16.    Total Benefits and Costs Over Time
17.    Sample Distribution of Economic Rate of Return
MAPS
1.     Command Area (IEn 17691)
2.     Basin Projects (IBRD 17694)
3.     Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Complex (IBRD 17692)
4.     Initial Development Area (IBRD 17693)
5.     Depth to Water Table (IBRD 17940)
6.     Water Quality and Aquifer Type (IBRD 17939)
7.    Agroclimatic Conditions (IBRD 17b11)
8.     Regional Soil Types (IBRD 17941)
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA VOLUME (SDV)
ANNEXES
1. Planning the Sardar Sarovar Project
2. Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal Final Order and Decision
3. Surface Water Resources
4. Groundwater Resources
5. Agriculture
6. Project Criteria and Plan of Operation
7. Groundwater Drainage and Conjunctive Use
8. Framework for Operation and Maintenance
9. Dam and Power Complex
10. Economic Analysis
11. Documents in Project File



INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND I1
Introduction
1.01    The Narmada River Development (NRD) comprises a multistate program
for development of hydropower and irrigation dams and their associated
irrigation canal networks on India's largest west flowing river (map
IBRD 17691). Elements of the basinwide program are planned for construction
over the next 40-50 years. This development would bring an additional
4-5 N ha of potentially valuable agricultural land, now prone to dro:,ht and
scarcity, under irrigation. The NRD would also secure municipal and
industrial (M&I) water supplies and bolster electric generating capacity
within India's western region transmission grid by at least 2,700 SW. Over-
all, the NRD would uplift the lives of about 11 N people in the states of
Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh (MP), Rajasthan, and Maharashtra.
1.02    The Govenment of India (GOI) has sought Bank assistance in financing
the first stage of the NRD-Gujarat or Sardar Sarovar Project (SSP), which
would be the first in a series of about 30 major projects that are planned
for development within the Narmada Basin. The SSP would form the basis of
Gujarat's water planning for a significant portion of the state north of the
Narmada River. It would be the largest irrigation project ever planned and
implemented as one unit. Development of the SSP would take place over the
next 22 years. The cost of construction at present prices is estimated at
US$5,8b9 M. The SSP would irrigate about 1.9 H ha in Gujarat State and
create the potential for irrigation of about 70,000 ha and/or provide
municipal and industrial water supplies in Rajasthan, install 1450 KW f
hydroelectric power generation at two plants, and supply about 1300 Mm'/year
of M&I water. The SSP consists of a large dam and power complex on the
Narmada River near Navagam village in Gujarat, including a large storage
reservoir extending upstream for about 210 km in Gujarat, Maharashtra, and
MP, and a canal network serving an irrigation command area extending about
440 km on the right bank northwest to the Rajasthan state boundary.
1.03    The proposed Bank lending operation would assist two SSP elements
simultaneously as follows:
/  This chapter is in large parts identical to the corresponding chapter
in SAR No. 5107-IN, titled "Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Complex."



-2-
(a)  an IBRD loan and IDA credit of USS200 X and US4100 M, respectively,
towards the cost of constructing the dam and power complex during
19b4/85 through 1994/95; and
(b) an IDA credit of US$150 M towards the cost of constructing the canal
network during the years 1984/85 through 1988/89.
The operation is described in two staff appraisal reports (SARs), "Sardar
Sarovar Dam and Power Project," Report no. 5107-IN and "Water Delivery and
Drainage Project", Report no. 5108-IN; a "Supplementary Data Volume." (SDV)
comprising ten technical annexes; and a list of documents on file.
1.04    The IDA assisted project described in this SAR would finance a three
year time slice of the SSP water delivery and drainage systems over the
period 1984/85 through 1987/88 to be completed at an estimated cost of
USS521 H. The proposed IDA credit of USS150 M would finance about 30% of the
estimated project cost, net of taxes and duties. Financing would be provided
by the states of Gujarat and Rajasthan to the extent the latter is obligated
under the Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal (NWDT) decision.
Agriculture and Irrigation in India 1/
1.05    India.  India is a large and diverse country with a population of
over 700 M and an annual per capita income of about US0250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture, which employs more than two-thirds of the labor
force and accounts for about 40% of GDP. Sluggish agricultural growth (2.3Z
a year since 1950) combined with temporary setbacks caused by poor monsoons
have been factors retarding the economy. Despite intensive public investment
having more than doubled to about 25% of GDP, India continues to suffer from
inadequate infrastructure facilities, especially water distribution to
drought prone areas, power, and shortages of key materials. As a result, the
economic growth rate has averaged a moderate 3.6% a year since 1950. In
attempts to raise levels of economic growth, GOI has devoted considerable
resources to irrigation development.
The State of Guiarat 2/
1.06    General.  The state of Gujarat covers an area of 19,600 kn2, and has
a population of about 36 M (1983) growing at an annual rate of 2.5%. It is
relatively urbanized and has a large and fast growing manufacturing sector.
Between 1960 and 1982 the state's income grew at an annual rate of 3.7% and
per capita income reached in 1983 a level of USS320, considerably higher than
the all-India level (US$250). Agriculture accounts for more than one third
of the state's income and fcFr more than 60% of the working population (1981).
/J  Detailed review is in *k.conomic Situation and Prospects of India,." IBRD
Report No. 4962-IN, April, 1984.
]/ Greater details are in SDV, annex 1, "Planning the Sardar Sarovar
Project.."



-3-
Moreover, agriculture-based industries account for more than 50% of all
factory employment. Agricultural production largely depends on weather
conditions, since much of Gujarat is characterized "y low and highly variable
rainfall. This, and the limited irrigation facilities, have made the state
susceptible to drought and famine. Since 1900, severe food shortages due to
drought have been experienced at least 25 times. Consequently, the Govern-
ment of Gujarat (GOG) has given a high priority to irrigation development.
1.07    The Irrigation Subsector.  The ultimate irrigation potential, and
the potential created and utilized are sunmarized as follows:
Ultimate
Irrigation Potential   Potential Created   Potential Utilized
…Ck4ha_______________…_---…( ha)-------------
Major and
medium projects         1.46                    1.13                 0.63
Minor schemes            0.25                   0.15                  0.09
Narmada Basin            1.87                       -                    -
Groundwater              1.80                   1.60                  1.38
5.38                   2.88                 2.10
Source: Government of Gujarat, Draft Annual Plan 19841b5.
Only about 54Z of the ultimate potential has been developed, and about 75% of
the undeveloped potential is based on the Narmada River. Consequently,
irrigation development in the second half of the 1980s and in the 1990s will
focus on Narmada water resources.
The Narmada Basin Development
1.08    The Narmada is the largest west flowing river in India.  It rises in
the highlands of eastern ?P and flows in a narrow valley for 1,300 km before
discharging into the Gulf of Cambay, draining an area of 98,800 km2 in the
states of hP, Gujarai, and Maharashtra.  The average annual flow of the
Narmada of 45,000 Mm is greater than the total of the Ravi, Beas, and Sutlej
flows that feed the great Indus Basin. More than 90% of the runoff occurs
during the monsoon season (June-October), so that effective utilization of
the water resource requires construction of major storage reservoirs. In the
1950s and 1960s, comprehensive plans were drawn for the development of the
Narmada River, but most of the plans were held up because of interstate
disputes over the allocation of water. Thus, today the water resource
remains almost totally undeveloped. Out of the thirty major projects
presently envisaged, only one has been completed (Barna), one is nearing
completion (Tawa), and one is under construction (Bargi), all in hP.
1.09    The Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal (NIDT).  In 1965 GOI appointed a
committee to develop a master plan for the basin, and when the riparian



-4-
states failed to accept its recommendations, GOI appointed the Narmada Water
Disputes Tribunal to adjudicate. Following ten years of deliberations, the
NWDT gave its final award in December 1979.  According to estimates based on
available data at that time, approximately two-thirds (22,500 Nm ) of the 75%
dependable annual utilizable supply of the river of 34 500 Jm3 was allocated
by the NWDT to MP and most of the remainder (11,100 Nm) 5o Gujarat. Rajas-
than and Naharasbtra were allocated minor amounts (600 Nm and 300 Jm3,
respectively). The NWDT also issued instructions regarding:
(a) proportionate sharing of water in surplus and deficit years;
(b) full reservoir level (FRL) of Sardar Sarovar Reservoir;
(c) elevation of the main canal at the Rajasthan border;
(d) sharing of power benefits from Sardar Sarovar among Gujarat, MP, and
Maharashtra;
(e) resettlement and rehabilitation of people living in the reservoir
area;
(f)  regulated releases from the Narmada Sagar Dam in MP;
(g) sharing of costs for Sardar Sarovar and Narmada Sagar dams, Sardar
Sarovar riverbed and canalbead hydropower plants, and the Narmada
main canal;
(h) coordinating mechanisms for implementation and operation; and
Ci) concurrent construction of Narmada Sagar Dam in MP.
1.10    Basin DeveloDment PersDectives.  The NWDr's award has thus opened up
the potential for the most important water development in India to take place
before the end of this century. Present plans call for the construction of
30 major projects (21 irrigation, 5 hydropower, and 4 multipurpose), some 400
medium irrigation schemes, and several thousand minor schemes (map
IBRD 17694). In addition to power generation and irrigation inside the
basin, water has been allocated for domestic and industrial uses and for
multipurpose transbasin diversions to: Son and Ton basins in eastern MP,
drought-prone areas of Kutch, Saurashtra, northern mainland in Gujarat, and
southern Rajasthan. In total, around 5 X ha would be brought under irriga-
tion, and about 2700 MW of hydropower capacity would be installed at a total
cost of some US$13,000 M in today's prices as summarized in the following
table:



-5-
Salient Features of the Narmada Basin Development
Irrifation          Beneficiaries              Prwer
Annual      Farm        Rural    Installed    Annual
CCA /a Irritation  Families  Population  Capacity   Production
-(H ha)                                 - -(MW)-   -   M (GWh)-
2.8         3.1         0.8       6.0         1,250       3,500
Gujarat       1.9          2.0         0.4       4.5         1,450       3,500
Rajasthan    <0.1         <0.1        <0.1        0.2            0           0
Maharashtra  <0.1         <0.1        <0.1        0.1            0           0
Total       4.8          5.1         1.2      10.8         2,700       7,000
/a Cultivable command area.
Past Bank Group SuRport for Irrigation and Power Development in Gujarat
1.11    The Bank has provided significant support for Gujarat-s irrigation
development, starting with the construction of the Shetrunji Canal system
(Credit No. 13-IN, 1961, US$4.5 M), and followed by the Kadana Irrigation
Project (Credit No. 176-IN, 1970, US$35.0 M). Although the actual rate of
return estimated in the project completion report was lower than anticipated
at appraisal (127 vs. 14%), the ?lahi command served from Kadana Reservoir is
now one of the most prosperous and productive areas in Gujarat.
1.12    Two credits for irrigation are presently under implementation:  the
Gujarat (Medium) Irrigation Project (Credit No. 808-IN, 1978, US$85 P.) and
the Gujarat Irrigation II (Major) Project (Credit No. 1011-Ih, 1980,
US$175 N). Together the two projects comprise about four fifths of Gujarat-s
annual irrigation investments outside Narmada development. Partly due to the
innovative nature of many of the projects components, implementation was at
first slower than expected.   Satisfactory progress has been made with the
Gujarat Medium operation which is now entering its second phase under the
follow-on project to the Gujarat (Medium) Irrigation Project, covering a new
time slice that has been appraised and was approved by the Board in June
1984. An objective of the project is a significant strengthening of
Gujarat's ability to plan, design, construct, and operate irrigation systems
that can deliver a timely and reliable water supply. Although Gujarat
(Major) (Cr. 1011-IN) has suffered from pervasive implementation problems,
primary bottlenecks have now been removed and action on residual problems has
been agreed with GOG. An important lesson learnt during this project is the
urgent need for a centralized procurement organization such as is proposed
under the SSP.
1.13    The Bank's involvement in power development in Gujarat has been
through loans to central government for rural transmission and electrifica-
tion from which the state has benefited. The Third Rural Electrification
Project is now under implementation. Power supplies through the National
Thermal Power Corporation and the Western Grid and provision of rural power
lines, together with finance for wells and pumps from the Bank-supported
Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation lending programs have had a
significant impact on the development of groundwater resources in Gujarat.



-6-
II. THE SARDAR SAROVAR PROJECT 1/
General
2.01    The SSP is the part of the NRD program located in Gujarat
(para 1.02). It would be based on a dam and power complex on the Narmada
River near Navagam village about 95 km upstream from the Gulf of Cambay (map
IBRD 17692) and irrigate a net cultivable command area of 1.9 M ha. In
addition, it would generate hydropower and supply water for M&I water needs.
It would be the largest irrigation project ever planned and implemented as
one unit.
Project Formulation, Preparation, and Objectives
2.02    Following the award of the NWDT, the Bank mounted a reconnaissance
mission in November 1978 to review basin development plans and to determine
the appropriate means for Bank involvement. The mission recommended that:
(a) a high level Narmada Planning Group (N1S) should be established by
the GOG;
(b) private or independent consultants 2/ should be retained for systems
studies and general planning of the GOG; and
(c) key foreign experts should be provided through the UNDP and a special
project preparation component of an IDA credit.
2.03    Subsequently, GOG formed the NPG as a permanent planning organiza-
tion. The NPG has performed effectively its role of providing studies and
Analyses that would clarify choices for decisionmakers in GOG regarding
design, construction, water allocation modes, operational schedules, schemes,
etc. The UNDP technical assistance program was initiated in 1979 and a
US$10 N component was attached to Gujarat Irrigation II Project (Credit
No. 1011-IN) 31 to support project planning activities in India, especially
for Narmada. Preparation and appraisal activities in the period 1980 to 1983
entailed the use of specialists in the fields of systems planning and
scheduling, hydrology and hydraulics, large canal, concrete dam, hydropower,
and related structures design, distribution, drainage, and conjunctive use
system design, groundwater resource evaluation, agriculture, inland naviga-
tion, O&H planning, resettlement, procurement, institutional planning, and
1/ Portions of this chapter are identical to comparable paragraphs of chap-
ter II, SAR No. 5107-IN.
21 The Irrigation Department (ID)/NPG had successfully utilized, under
contract, the services of the Operation Research Group, Vadodara, Gujarat
(a private firm) for several years during critical planning stages of
SSP.
31 Subsequently supplemented by a further US$10 M under the UP Tubewells II
Project (Cr. 1332-IN).



-7-
cost estimates. The NPG and the Irrigation Department (ID) Ij of GOG have
made extensive use of local research institutes and consulting firms. Within
a period of three years. an impressive array of high quality studies and
designs have resulted, including a comprehensive framework plan by the NPG
and productiou by the ID of high quality designs, specifications, and
procurement documents. The NPG is continuing its work during implementation
by managing the completion of work plan activities listed in table 1. GOG
has prepared a project that represents a break with past approaches to the
planning, design, construction, and operation of irrigation projects in
India. In addition, Bank staff and its consultants have contributed substan-
tially to the optimization of the Narmada basin development plans and the
design of its initial investments through their input to SSP and upstream
projects in MP including the Narmada Dam complex.
2.04    Obiectives.  Water from the Narmada River is Gujarat's last remaining
major water resource to be developed. Growth of the state economy, and of
agriculture in particular, would depend critically on the availability of
this resource in the dry and drought-prone central and northwestern parts of
the state. The SSP would be the key element in Gujarat's water plan for
these areas. The main objectives and functions of the SSP are therefore:
(a) to provide storage and regulation of Narmada River flows for estab-
lishing efficient, reliable, and equitable supply of irrigation
water, coupled with effective drainage services, over about 1.9 x ha
of command area and municipal, industrial and domestic water in
Gujarat and to create potential for irrigation of about 70,000 ha
and /or provide domestic, municipal and industrial water supplies
in Rajasthan, with the aim of creating the basis for a modern, diver-
sified agricultural production system and for productive employment
of its growing rural population through irrigation; and
(b) to provide storage and regulation of Narmada River flows for estab-
lishing a reliable and efficient supply and distribution of
hydroelectric energy and generating capacity including peaking
capacity to the western region power grid serving the States of
Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.
Salient Features of SSP
2.05    The principal physical features of the SSP would consist of the
following:
(a) Water storage facilities. The Sardar Sarovar Dam would be a gravity
mass concrete structure rising to a height of 128.5 a above the
riverbed. It would create a reservoir with an initial live storage
of 5,800 Mm3 (4.72 MAF) extendinp about 210 km up the Narmada valley
and submerging an area of 370 km and would require the resettlement
and rehabilitation of about 11,000 families. The safety and utiliza-
tion of the dam and reservoir would be enhanced by the installation
jj The ID has been renamed the Narmada Development Department as described
in paras 7.06-7.08.



-8-
and operation of a hydrometeorological network for the purpose of
flood warning and day to day reservoir operations.
(b) Power facilities. There would be power generating facilities on the
riverbed and on the reservoir outlet to the main canal. lhe Riverbed
Powerhouse (RBPH), located underground on the right bank downstream
of the main dam, would accommodate six reversible units each of 200
MW capacity that would necessitate construction of a weir downstream
at Garudeshwar for pumpback operation. The Canalhead Powerhouse
(CHPH) on the right bank upstream-of the main dam would be a surface
station of conventional type accommodating five turbine units each of
50 MW capacity. The powerhouses would operate through a common
switchyard to feed 400 Kv transmission lines that deliver power to
Gujarat, MP, and Maharashtra.
(c) Water supply and distribution facilities. Releases would be through
the CHPH or the irrigation by-pass tunnel. Those releases would be
reregulated in four interconnected ponds above the main canal head
regulator. The main canal, brauches, and distributaries, which form
the conveyance system to 200-500 ha irrigation service areas (SAs),
would be concrete-lined and equipped with sutficient
cross-regulators, and head control gates to operate on the controlled
volume principle (paras 3.02-3.05). The canal delivery system.
within SAs, would be lined to outlets serving about 8 ha and channels
would be unlined from there to the farm and field outlets, and would
be free-draining. In-line hydropower stations would be located on
drops on the Saurashtra and Kutch branch canals, and pump stations
would be located on the rising reaches of these canals.
Cd) Groundwater suDDlv facilities. Where aquifer conditions permit,
centrally controlled augmentation tubewells would supply water to the
delivery network above or at the head of SAs and then to the canal
delivery system in the area.
(e)  Drainage facilities.  An open channel flood arainage system consist-
ing of improved natural and artificial drains would be constructed to
the 40-ha level in the command area. Surface drainage from the field
to the 40-ha level would be the responsibility of the farmer.
However, drainage channels required for protection of irrigation
facilities would do much to meet this need. Where present, the
augmentation tubewells would perform a groundwater drainage function.
Elsewhere, provision would be made to dispose of excess groundwater
by pumping from wells to waste or by provision of horizontal
drainage, as appropriate.
(f)  Roads.  The existing road network within the command area would be
enhanced by improving farm to market access and by constructing new
roads to support operation and maintenance (O&M) of the total system.
(g) Other infrastructure. A looped communication system would be
provided between the project control center, area control centers,
and all flow control points. All such flow control points would be
monitored through remote sensing devices, and all flow control struc-
tures of greater than 8.5 cumec capacity would be equipped for remote



-9-
control. Other infrastructure would include buildings for offices,
stores, workshops, and residences to support O&M of the total system.
(h) Command area develoDment. This would include land shaping, develop-
ment of on-farm drainage facilities, and agricultural support serv-
ices.
SSP Implementation Period
2.06    It was estimated at appraisal that it would take 22 years to complete
the entire SSP water delivery and drainage systems including conjunctive use
schemes, command area development and roads. The estimated phasing of design
and construction of the irrigation and drainage systems is summarized in
table 2. SSP implementation goals and objectives are given in table 3. The
implementation schedule is shown in figure 1 for all major components of SSP,
including the dam and power complex (sheet 1) and the conveyance, distribu-
tion and drainage facilities (sheet 2). GOG indicates that it expects comr-
pletion of major SSP conveyance and drainage works by September 30, 1998 and
the remaining works by September 30, 2006. Ihus, the 22-year implementation
period (figure 1) provides the principle bases for economic evaluation of the
SSP. Variations are to be expected in the implementation and completion of
specific works which are projected two decades in aavance, for such a complex
development program. Possible deviations from implementation assumptions
taken and any effects, therefore, upon the justification of the SSP are fully
covered by the risk considerations of chapter IX.
2.07    Water supply from the dam is expected to be diverted at the end of
the 1991-92 construction season. Project implementation would ensure that
the greatest possible command area is ready to receive water by that date,
and that the fastest possible buildup of completed command area is achieved
subsequently. This requires close coordination of the schedules for comple-
tion of the various elements of the water delivery and drainage systems. A
constraint to their rapid construction is the necessity that no part should
stand idle for longer than it could be expected to stay in good condition
prior to carrying water. An estimate of the maximum allowable idle or unused
time for various canal elements needed to minimize physical damage prior to
actual operation varies from five years for canals of 14 cumecs capacity and
higher, to one year for canals of less than U.3 cumecs.
2.08    The distribution and drainage networks from the distributaries to
the farm takeout would be constructed in development blocks, which may vary
in size from about 4,000 to 17,000 ha. Construction contracts would include
conveyance channels, surface drains and service roads within each block, in
order to improve the efficiency of layout and designs and to minimize
earthwork requirements and rights-of-way acquisition. The proposed layout of
development blocks up to the Mahi River is shown on map IBRD 17693. Block by
block development would be sequenced to maximize deliveries of water by the
end of the construction season in about June 1992, when diversions from the
Narmada River would be possible.



-10-
Water Supply
2.09    An estimated total of 11,800 hm3 of water for irrigation and k&I use
is assumed normally jj available for project use. Of this, 9,300 Mm3 wouid
come from the Narmada River and the remainder from public wells (2,100 Mm )
and en route rivers (44(0 Mm3). This quantity has been psed for basic project
design. Mean availability would be higher at 14,600 Mm . In additiSn, new
private groundwater development presently estimated at some 2,000 Mm , would
enhance the total water availability in the project area. Substantial
surpluses would exist for several years, mainly due to the extended construc-
tion program for this project. Also, surpluses would be experienced in
periods of high rainfall. By proper selection of crops, adjustments in
planting dates, and extension of cropping into the hot season, the facilities
would permit at least partial use of these additional supplies when avail-
able. Full descriptions of the project's surface and groundwater resources
are provided in SDV, annex 1, chapter III and annexes 3 and 4, respectively.
Surface Water Availability for Proiected Development Stages
Development Stagte
(Mm;)
Early      Intermediate a/       Full
Gujarat
Allocated share                10,8C0 (9,000)   11,200 (10,700)   11,800 (10,500)
Potential abstraction
by Gujarat                   12,800 (9,900)   12,600 (10,100)   12,700 (10,600)
Projected abstraction
by Gujarat                    2,200            11,500             12,100
Rajasthan                            300               600                650
Power releases (RBPH)             27,500            16,900              2,650
Note:  All figures refer to estimated mean flows, except figures in brackets,
which indicate flows at 75% dependability.
aj Assumes Gujarat and Rajasthan to be at full development, while HP and
Mabarashtra remain at an early stage of both reservoir capacity and
abstractions.
hJ Assumes basin fully developed.
2.10    Studies of the area between the Narmada and Nahi rivers provide a
guide for the magnitude and timing of the groundwater development required.
Approximate depths to the present groundwater table are shown projectwide on
map IBRD 17940. Detailed groundwater studies throughout project implementa-
tion are included under the work plan (table 1).
1J At 75Z dependability. This constitutes the "Class A" water as explained
in para 3.06.



2.11    The water from the Narmada River is of high quality and acceptable
for general irrigation use. The quality of groundwater varies throughout the
project area. For the most part, the quality degrades in the direction of
the coast and the northern mainland, requiring caution in the direct use of
groundwater. The practice of blending surface water and groundwater would be
of increasing importance and conjunctive use would be necessary. In large
portions of the southern mainland and in part of Saurashtra, the quality is
such that groundwater can be pumped for direct use on crops without problems.
Near the coast and the Ranns of Kutch, the poor quality necessitates wasting
of groundwater drainage. In general, the project is to be operated to mini-
mize any constraints on crop production from poor water quality. For plan-
ning and design purposes, a level of 700 ppm of dissolved solids would be the
maimium acceptable. Water quality and aquifer types are shown on map IBRD
17939.
Rationale for Bank Involvement in Sardar Sarovar Proiect
2.12    Due to the project's outstanding potential for benefiting the basin
and the nation, the Bank has been closely involved during the planning,
preparation and formulation stage. IDA funds have been provided to finance
costs of preparation of basin projects in Gujarat and MP (para 2.03). The
Bank has emphasized the optimization of the basin plan through, inter-alia,
the adoption of modern design criteria, methodologies and apropriate institu-
tions for executing the key investments and in the phasing of investments.
The rationale for continuation of Bank involvement is summarized below:
(a)  The project has potential for generating long term socioeconomic
benefits on an unprecedented local, regional, and national scale in
one of the world's neediest settings.
(b) The Bank has had a catalyzing role in the interstate cooraination and
information exchange between the basin states and should continue to
do so. Moaern riverbasin planning effecting interctependent projects,
calls for new and complex techniques and approaches that are not
widely applied in India and are not likely to be aaequately used
without Bank involvement and assistance.
(c) One planning objective is to satisfy the requirements of agriculture
in the next century. New technologies of systems operation and
control and other innovations, that have been aaopted at the planning
and design stages, may be slow or never occur without continued Bank
participation.
(d) This project represents one of the best opportunities to achieve the
Bank's objectives of setting standards for the modernization of the
Indian irrigation sector.
(e) It is significant that through the Bank's participation, the project
has taken a different, more modern shape than it might otherwise have
taken. While this could be true of many projects, this case has
higher significance due to its size.
(f) Bank involvement would act as a catalyst for the attraction of inter-
national contractors and financing from outside sources for
hydropower equipment.



-12-
III. SSP CONCEPTS AND POLICIES
3.01   'The immense size of the SSP area and the need to provide efficient,
reliable, and equitable water supplies throughout, including to its SAs,
required the formulation of comprehensive concepts and criteria for water
allocation, design, implementation and 06M of irrigation and X&I water supply
and drainage features as described in the ensuing paragraphs and as enumerated
in Schedule A. Full discussions and clarifications regarding SSP planning,
design, construction and operational concepts and policies that were formulated
at appraisal by the mission and project authorities are provided in SDV,
annexes 1, 6, 7, and 8.
Des-ign Concepts
3.02    The project design is based upon agreed criteria for quality and level
of service to the beneficiaries-the farmers. The design is consistent with
the potential of the project as regards: quantity, quality, and location of
legally available surface and subsurface water supplies; size and location of
the area to be serviced; vagaries of the climate across the command; quality
and location or soils; protection against surface flooding and subsurface
waterlogging over time; public groundwater development in conjunctive use
schemes; and, flexibility needed to meet future crop requirements.
3.03    The entire irrigation network has been divided into the:
(a) conveyance network; and
(b) delivery network (para 2.05 (c)).
The water conveyance network consists of the main canal, branch canals, and
distributaries. The delivery network consists of the minors within the village
SAs averaging about 300 ha that serve chaks (water delivery units), which may
vary from 25 to 65 ha in size (average 40 ha). The chaks, in turn, have sub-
minors and field channels leading to the fields. Water would pass sequentially
through the network with the farm turnout ultimately receiving water from the
field channel. This hierarchy of conveyance and delivery systems would be
adhered to throughout the network. The entire network would be lined down to
the 8-ha level.
3.04    From the outset, a technologically appropriate system was sought to
provide a quick, reliable, and equitable response to irrigation demands, even
for tailenders, because the distance from the heaaworks to the farm could be as
much as 700 km. The usual free flowing design and upstream scheduled operation
would require days, if not weeks, to adjust to changes in demand and therefore
not be suitable. Also, traditional procedures for a system as massive as the
SSP would have resulted in highly inefficient responses to the vagaries of
weather. Thereby, mid-monsoon droughts often require full-flowing canals for
meeting crop requirements, and the sudden intensive and extensive rainfall
would cause vast volumes of water to be wasted to natural drains throughout
the command. Thus, a breakpoint in the overall distribution system was con-
ceived with the upstream conveyance network operating under a "controlled
volume" concept and the downstream free draining delivery network operating in
either an 'on" or "off" condition.



-13-
3.05    The controlled volume type of operation requires that all canal
regulating structures are operated nearly simultaneously during flow changes.
Also, a relatively large percentage of the total flow enroute may be regulated
within the system when rapid changes in demand occur. Thus, whenever water
demand changes, the flow rates throughout the entire canal system are adjusted
so that supply quickly meets demand resulting in a highly efficient conveyance
system. The canals are operated as a series of sequential but simultaneously
operated storage pools. The response time is limited to the relatively small
period required to transfer water from storage in the pool just upstream of the
point of demand, instead of from the distant head of the network. Normally the
gates would be operated simultaneously from a central control office but may be
operated by over-ride controls at each site with a backup power source and/or
manually.
Water Allocation Criteria
3.06    Water allocation for irrigation would be based on the following prin-
ciples: Ij
(a)  Water allowances would be established, expressed in terms of volumes of
water per ha of net CCA. Allowances and actual annual and seasonal
allocation would be uniform within each region.
(b)  Three classes of water have been established to reflect levels of
reliability so that maximum use of the water available at any time can
be made without jeopardizing the basic water allocation to any group of
users or any geographical area. Basic project water supply, designated
as Class A, would correspond to what farmers can normally count on with
reasonable reliability for their cropping plans. It would consist of
Gujarat's legal share in Narmada waters at 75% dependability (as
defined by NWDT), augmented by groundwater developed by the agency and
as available in an average year in areas where such development would
take place. Water surplus to Class A in any water year under full
project development conditions within Gujarat-s share would be desig-
nated Class B. Water surplus to Classes A and B during the project
buildup period would be designated Class C.
(c)  Class A water would be allocated by regions and subregions in accord-
ance with socioeconomic objectives, agroclimatic conditions, and physi-
cal characteristics of the project. The maximum variation among
regional per ha allocations of Class A water would be about 20%, with
exception ot areas of marginal quality lands. Actual quantities avail-
able each year would be distributed in proportion to the basic alloca-
tion. Class B water would be allocated in proportion to the river
water component of Class A, and Class C water would similarly be allo-
cated to farmers in regions as the commanded area builds up.
(d)  Farmers owning wells would be served in the same way as farmers who do
not. The agency would have full responsibility to take necessary
action to prevent detrimental groundwater conditions and to remove all
water of poor quality.
J/ For full details, refer to SDV, annex 6.



-14-
ke) All lands designated as irrigable and reasonably contiguous within the
command area would be served. Facilities and system operations would
be designed assuming that no land consolidation would occur. Farmers
would be free to select crops, cropped area, and method of irrigation,
in order to utilize allocated agency water and other vater resources in
the best manner. The canal system would not be operated to serve the
special needs of perennial crops.
(f)  Demands and use of Narmada River water for M&I use and for irrigation
shall have priority over releases for power generation within stipula-
tions of the NWDT.
3.07    Municipal and Industrial Services and Location.  All water allocated
to H&I users would be drawn from the Narmada River supply. Groundwater
developed by H&I agencies would not be assessed against the M&I project allot-
ments. M&I customers served by the project would receive untreated river water
through the canal system at a limited number of designated sites. Certain
restrictions, due to system capacity limitations, may preclude delivery
throughout the year. All demands for M&I water are assumed to occur at
centrally located point(s) of delivery, but would not be aggregated with
agricultural deliveries at peak times through the main canal. Therefore, the
system would be sized to permit M&I deliveries during 9.5 months minimum.
Minimum M&I delivery capacity during the 9.5 month period would not be less
than 50% of the 9.5 month average period.
Service to Farmers
3.08    The irrigation SA would be served by a single outlet from the con-
veyance system. Water would be delivered to a SA 24-hr/day for a fixed period
of time at intervals to be established for each season and commencing on a
fixed day of the week. The maximum interval would be seven days during peak
crop demand. Farmers within the SA would rotate subdivided flows so that all
would receive one irrigation during the period of supply. The concept calls
for an onloff delivery to an entire SA and simultaneous ungated flow propor-
tioned by fixed devices to subareas within which the farmers would rotate
streams. A simple operation is required, automatic proportioning of flows to
farmers is assured, and opportunities to misappropriate waters are avoided.
3.09    Agricultural extension advisors (para 7.25) would assist in aetermining
schedules for delivery of allocated water in terms of size of flow, number of
irrigations, and dates of delivery. Short term altering of the delivery
schedule to a SA in response to rainfall would follow predetermined procedures.
The schedule of rotation among farmers would be fixed for each season so that
each farmer would know the day of the week and the hours during which he is to
take water. This schedule would be altered with each season so that night
operation would affect all farmers in alternate seasons.
3.10    Services to remove surplus waters harmful to crops would be provided by
the project and would include both excess surface water and excess groundwater
as follows:
(a) Excess precipitation from storms of five year frequency would be
removed in a manner that restricts the area inundated for more than 72
hours to a maximum of 25% of any chak. Exceptions would be made in
regions 4, 7, 11, and in dedicated rice areas.



-15-
(b) Surface drainage facilities would be provided from the 40-ha level.
The responsibility for linking the facilities to the farms rests with
the farmers. jj
(c) Groundwater control would be provided to limit the rise of groundwater
levels to 5 m average from the surface in an area and to 2 a in iso-
lated areas between drains. Groundwater control would be provided by
means of wells and deep surface drains. Water pumped to control
groundwater that is of suitable quality, and water recovered from
surface drains would be utilized for irrigation (conjunctive use).
Operation Concepts
3.11    The conveyance and delivery systems have been designed and would be
operated in a manner to appropriately serve the three primary customers--Rajasthan,
M&I users, and farmers within the project area. The first two are not expected
to impose sudden fluctuations in demand. Agricultural delivery, with its great
variations in demand and numerous delivery points, dictates the level of opera-
tional flexibility of the systems under normal conditions.  The systems
response in emergency conditions, necessary to minimize loess-s and damage cue
to sudden changes in flow or the malfunction of facilities, imposes the need
for stringent requirements.
3.12    The scheme of operation would assure safety and reliability.  It would
constitute an advance in reliability and in accommodating farmer needs above
those found in most existing systems in India. The facility capabilities would
permit improvements in the future, in terms of changes that would be needed to
sustain fully modern agricultural practices over time.
3.13    Quantities and dates of deliveries to SAs would vary annually and by
season. The basic design of the systems assumes deliveries that would normally
support a wet season (kharif) crop and a dry season (rabi) crop with Class A
water. l However, procedures have been formulated to establish annual and
seasonal deliveries of surplus water that would accommodate all reasonable
water supply conditions. Projections of available Class A, B, and C waters for
the water year beginning April 1 would be made by the agency in March, broken
down into six month periods from hay 1.
3.14    The seasonal water supply would reflect the surface water and
groundwater actually available duiing the season. The dates of deliveries
agreed with farmers would be adhered to, and the volumes of irrigation would be
proportionately increased or decreased as actual water availability dictates.
Usually, however, major changes in annual availability evolving during the
kharif would be taken into consideration when formulating the rabi schedule.
Procedures for action in response to rainfall would be formulated with farmer
representatives. Records of actual deliveries made to each SA would be com-
piled weekly by the operating agency.
| however, drainage channels which will be required for protection of the
irrigation facilities will do much to meet this need.
Al Kharif is the annual wet cropping season (June-October) and rabi is the
dry cropping season that follows (October-March)(see para 4.02).



-16-
3.15    T1rough fine tuning of flow-regulating structures in the controlled
volume system, the amount of water contained in each reach of canal can be
altered to accommodate operational needs. To meet the minor mismatching and
short term changes in local deliveries, water -would be drawn out of or placed
into "storage" within the canal reaches. No spilling of water would occur
during normal operations.
3.16    Emergency conditions are by definition unpredictable, requiring rapid
adjustments in operations without advance notice. Sudden intense precipita-
tion, breaches in canal embankments, blockages of canals due to material slid-
ing into the canal prism, and ruptures of stream crossings would be the
dominant causes. Losses of power to pumping plants on the Saurashtra and Kutch
branches would create emergencies in those subsystems and, to reduced degrees,
in the main canal reaches serving them. A detailed plan for systems operations
in response to each type of emergency would be formulated before the systems
are placed in operation, assuming that the systems' status can be monitorea
24-hr/day, and that regulatory gates can be activated remotely in a sequence
appropriate to the emergency.
3.17    The drainage system would be operated to assure removal of excess water
within reasonable limits of reliability. Excess surface water flows would
enter the drainage system by gravity from local collector systems and would
flow uncontrolled to disposal areas. Visual monitoring would be conducted
during large flows to assess conditions and allow precautionary actions to be
taken where structures are endangered, or where the inundation creates serious
economic or health problems.
3.18    Managing the groundwater system to prevent waterlogging of lands,
assuring efficient and full utilization of the groundwater resource, and main-
taining water quality would be the responsibility of the operating agency.
These responsibilities would be exercised through direct, continuing agency
involrement in design, construction, and operation of facilities, including
wells, and monitoring of surface and groundwater systems. Groundwater pumps
would be operated to control groundwater levels, with usable water introducea
into the surface delivery system upstream from SAs. Unusable water would be
wasted to disposal locations.
3.19    Conditions constituting flood drainage emergency would vary in extent
and frequency in the systems. Conditions that may endanger facilities or
inundate lands and cause severe economic and health problems would be defined
and identified geographically and rectified over time.
Operation and Maintenance Organization
3.20    Although water supply service would not begin until the end of the
1991/92 construction season, clear concepts of the organization of O&M have
already been formulated (figure 2). Recognizing the type of facilities and the
sophisticated operation inherent in the water supply and drainage systems, the
project 0&Ji organization has been structured, in order of decreasing area, into
units containing a project office, regions, divisions, districts, blocks, and
SAs (see figure 3). A block does not exercise any administrative function, but
is used to designate a geographical area of responsibility for maintenance at a
reasonable distance from the SA and the farmers, or covering a reasonable reach
of the main canal. There would be approximately 16 irrigation divisions, plus
one division for the main canal and dams, and one for the power complex.
Regional offices would be established for coordination or irrigation divisions.



-17-
The project office would allocate water and oversee all water and power opera-
tions. The SA is the terminus of normal project operational responsibility.
However, during a transition period the government 0&M organization would have
to operate the distribution system down to the 8-ha subchak. It is anticipated
that at a later stage the farmers, through their own organizations, would
operate the system below the SA turnout. Figure 3 illustrates the composition
of each unit to receive irrigation service and the approximate area within its
jurisdiction. Figure 4 shows suggested regional O&M boundaries (see
para 7.22).
3.21    During project operation farmers would link with the NDD at various
le-Jels. At the chak level, farmers would select one of their members to repre-
sent the chak on the Service Area Committee. Of primary importance would be
the committee's role in the determination of the SA's seasonal irrigation size
and schedule with the help of the agricultural extension advisors. Proposed
lines of communications between the farmers and their representatives and
government operators and aoministrators are shown in figure 5, while examples
of position qualifications and a typical sequence of staff advancement are
given in figure 6.
3.22    O&M facilities, Equi ment, and Staff Housing. Buildings at every
organizational level would contain the O&M staff and the equipment needed for
O&M. Residences would be constructed for key staff at various levels in oraer
to make supervising personnel available and on call 24 hr/day throughout the
year. The facilities needed for each unit have been determined (SDV, annex 7).
3.23    The day to day operation of the project facilities would be carried
out by the divisions and their subunits--districts and blocks. Consequently,
the heavy, medium, and light equipment, the maintenance shops, and the primary
computer and communications equipment would be assigned to these units. The
necessary equipment and facilities have been determined for each level, higher
level units would only wive offices and necessary vehicle and office equipment.
3.24    A full complement of equipment and the initial inventory of spare parts
and supplies designated for each unit would be provided prior to its commis-
sioning. In this way, proper attention would be paid to all facilities--water
supply and drainage-from the onset. In allocating equipment, full allowance
has been made for mutual support during emergencies and other periods of high
equipment demands.
SSP and Guiarat Medium Irrigation II Proiect
3.25    The design ana operation principles of the minor distribution system
in SSR would be similar to those acopted for the Gujarat Medium Irrigation II
Project (Cr. 1496-IA), with the SA chaks and subehaks being t'ie elementary
operating units. To enable reliable delivery of water to SSP s 4,000 SAs, and
to minimize the negative impact of human errors, which could have devastating
effects in a project of that magnitude, SSF's conveyance system has been
designed for remote monitoring and operation. This would enable the delivery
of water to the SA outlet by similar methods as in the individual subprojects
in the Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project. Within the SAs the problems of
delivering water reliably and equitably to each field would be similar in both
projects. By the time irrigation would begin in SSP (about 1992), over
300,000 ha in subprojects completea under Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project
would be irrigated under rotational water supplies, some of them for over four
years. Experience would have been gained also in farmer organizations, such as



-18-
in establishment and operation of water-user associations at various levels.
Thus, the SSP operating organization would benefit considerably from the
experience gained in the medium irrigation schemes.
Planning. Design. Construction. Operating. and Maintenance PrinciDals
3.26    Water would be allocated, services provided to farmers, and the SSP
operated and maintained as describea in paras 3.01 through 3.25 above. Accord-
ingly, agreement has been reached with GOG that it would plan, design, con-
struct, operate and maintain the project works in accordance with the concepts,
policies, scope, objectives, planning criteria, design and construction stand-
ards in a manner satisfactory to IDA and as enumerated in Scheaule A.
Environmental Effects
3.27    The environmental effects of the irrigation and drainage networks of
SSP would be considered under the project as a part of the work plan including
studies and investigations being conducted by the NPG (see table 1). The
environmental part of the program would be accomplished through a study con-
ducted by reputed and qualified consultants or institutions with monitoring by
the NPG. The study would cover the following aspects and include when neces-
sary, the design and implementations o± preventive mitigatory methods:
(a) Long term effects (negative and positive) of potential groundwater
rise in various agroclimatic regions;
(b) Long term salt accumulation in the root zone of soils of various regions;
(c) Proliferation of aquatic weeds in canals, drains, ponds, and
depressions;
td) Proliferation of water borne diseases with the import of Narmada
River water, e.g., malaria, schistosomiasis, x.'Iaria (see SAR,
No. 5107-IN, para 4.40(c)) and reauction ot diseases, e.g., scabies,
through improved sanitation;
(e) Effects of possible deterioration of soil and water quality due
to siltation, if any, and fertilizers and insecticides, including
eutrophication of existing ponds, reservoirs, and lakes;
(f) Potential for area afforestation programs within the command for
fuel and product development including utilization of areas of
marginal soils; and
(g) Other effects, including those on wildlife in specific areas ot
command and adverse spin offs of potential increases in urbaniza-
tion and industrialization.
3.28    Agreement has been reachea with GOG that it would undertake all
measures considered necessary to minimize the risk of malaria, filaria, schis-
tosomiasis and other water related diseases that may result from implementation
of the project.



-19-
IV. THE SARDAR SAROVAR PROJECT AREA
Climate
4.01    The command area has a tropical monsoon climate that ranges from
subhumid to semiarid as the annual rainfall decreases northwards and
westwards.  Daily minimum and maximum temperatures range from 130C to 270C in
Januarv, to 270C to 410C in May.  Extreme minimum is about 50C and maximum
is 460C- The relative humidity is very high during the wet season
(June-October) and low in the hot season (0'arch-May). Winds are generally
light to moderate with some increase in force during the monsoon. Climatic
characteristics for a selection of stations within the command are sumuarized
below:
Climatic Data for Selected Stations (1931-60)
Average Temperature
Annual Rainfall            January            May
Station             Mean   Max.   Min.        Max.   Min.      Max.   Min.
Baroda               985   1627    133        30.1   10.8      40.7   26.1
Abmedabad            823   1998    120        28.7   11.9      40.7   26.3
Bhavnagar            601   1438    147        27.6   11.1      39.6   26.0
Jamnagar             490   1120     78        26.4   10.6      36.1   25.4
Bhuj                 349   1177     22        26.1   10.1      38.7   25.6
4.02    Variable yet cyclic rainfall, temperature, and relative humidity
patterns dictate irrigation practices and define three irrigation seasons
throughout the command. These are:
(a) kharif - The highly variable wet season from June to October when
about 95% of the annual rainfall occurs and intensities and quan-
tities vary from flood storms, wherein greater than 15% of the annual
rainfall may occur in a single day, to mid-kharif droughts, wherein
periods of 2 to 6 weeks may be totally void of effective rainfall;
(b) rabi - The predictable dry-cool season following kharif and generally
extending into March, and characterized by low humidities, relatively
low temperatures, and little rainfall;
(c) hot weather - This dry season experiences the year-s highest tempera-
tures and lowest humidities, and extends from April through to onset
of monsoon rains in mid-June. Winds are generally light to moderate,
but may be locally damaging during brief periods associated with
monsoon instabilities.
4.03    The mean annual rainfall ranges from about 1000 mm in the extreme
southeast of the command area to less than 400 m in Kutch (map IBRD 17811).
The decrease in annual rainfall is accompanied by an increase in the
inter-annual rainfall variation. The variability coefficient ranges from



-20-
about 35% in the southeast to more than 60% in the northwest. A rainfall
analysis based on the 1960-81 daily rainfall record for Broach (mean annual
rainfall - 960 mm) showed that, on average, about 15% of the annual rainfall
occurs in one day and 30% during a one week period.
4.04    The relatively low and uncertain rainfall combined with limited
irrigation facilities has made Gujarat, in general, and the project area, in
particular, susceptible to droughts and famines, though the climate is other-
wise suitable for year round cropping. Since 1900, Gujarat has experienced
severe food shortages due to drought at least 25 times, averaging about once
every three years. The most recent drought years were 1972-73 and 1974-75
when foodgrain production fell by 50% below its normal level. Specially hard
hit were rainfall dependent rice and groundnut growers who, on average, lost
two thirds and three quarters of their crop, respectively. The location of
drought prone areas is largely determined by interregicnal annual rainfall
distribution. Several commissions and institutions i| have made efforts to
identify drought prone areas at the district level in order to guide the
orientation of programs and relief measures. Although the indicators and
objectives of different commissions vary, as does the demarcation of drought
prone areas, it is evident that endangered areas are concentrated in Kutch,
in the north and northeastern parts of Saurashtra, and in the northern dry
areas of mainland Gujarat (map IBRD 17811). Drought prone areas have been
identified by the various commissions in 33 out of 62 talukas 21 in the
project area covering 2.4 H ha or 702 of the gross command area of SSP.
the Land
4.05    Geology.  The geology of the command area is complex with a wide
range of rock types. These include granite, gneiss, highly metamorphosed
sediments of the Basement Complex, basaltic rock of the trap series,
sandstone and shale of the Mesozoic sedimentary sequence, and a lithological
vaz-ety of inland and coastal alluvial deposits.  Superficial deposits range
from fussil dunes to clay.
4.06    The Basement Complex rocks are limited to the extreme southeast of
the command area. The Mesozoic sediments outcrop in the western parts of the
command on the Saurashtra peninsula. Traprock underlie parts of the command
in Saurashtra. Fluviatile alluvium forms the major part of the command area
of mainland Gujarat. Coastal alluvium, consisting predominantly of clay, is
present around the Gulf of Cambay and in the trough between Saurashtra and
the mainland. Similar deposits are present along the fringes ot the Little
and Great Ranns of Kutch. The extension of the command along the southern
edge of Kutch is underlain by a complex of Mesozoic sedimentary deposits and
traprocks, usually overlain by a veneer of alluvium of varying texture.
4.07    The superficial deposits are generally clayey in the southern part
of the command on mainland Gujarat and in Saurashtra. In the northern part
Government of India, Drought Prone Area Programme, 1970-71; Irrigation
Commission, 1972; Central Arid Zone Research Institute; Contingency Plan,
1977; Fact Finding Committee, 1959.
sJ A taluka is an administrative subdivision of a district.



-21-
of the command on the mainland, fossil dune sands are the most common super-
ficial deposit, except along the fringes of the Ranns where clay
predominates.
4.08    Topographv.  The Basement Complex rocks of the extreme southeast
generally form a broken topography of ridges separated by incised stream
courses. The fluviatile alluvial deposits of the mainland form a regionally
flat plain dissected by deeply incised stream courses in the southern part of
the region and with a hummocky micro-relief in the north. The coastal
alluvium around the Gulf of Cambay and fringing the Ranns has a very flat
topography. The topography of the country underlain by traprocks is
generally hu mocky.
4.09    The regional topographic gradient on the mainland is westwards and
also slackens in that direction. The slopes radiate on the command area in
Saurashtra towards the Gulf of Kutch and the Little Rann of Kutch lying to
the north and towards the Gulf of Cambay and the trough that separates
Saurashtra from the mainland on the east.
4.10    Soils.  The soil type distribution in the command area reflects the
climate, geology, and topography, and to some extent, proximity and elevation
vith respect to the coast. The location of general soil types are shown on
map IBRD 17941. The soils developed on the Basement Complex rocks of the
extreme southeast of the command area are well drained to moderately
vell-drained sandy clay loams, silty-clay loams, and clay loans, except in
pockets of constrained drainage where heavy clay soils with poor drainage
characteristics occur. The salinity of the soil is generally low. Due to
the broken relief, the thickness of soil is variable with areas of thin soils
occurring on slopes subject to erosion. Some 73% of this area is categorized
as Irrigability Class 2 and 19% as Class 3. (A brief description of general
soil classification categories, Class 1 through 6 that trend frcm the most
productive class (1) to nonirrigable (6), is given in table 4.) Data for land
classification into six categories were collected in surveys conducted in the
command between 1957 and 1983. These data have been used in determining the
CCA for planning purposes and in deciding that all regions would support
sustained irrigation, except some heavy, hard to drain soils within regions
4, 7, and 11 (map IBRD 17811) that would require special plans for reduced
water utilization.
4.11    The area of fluviatile alluvium between the Narmada and Mahi rivers
has mainly heavy textured soils of calcareous clay and clay loam, except
adjacent to the rivers where fairly light textured sandy loams occur. The
soils are moderately to poorly drained and have low salinity levels. Some
43% of the area is irrigability Class 2, 25% is Class 3, and the balance has
a lower categorization.
4.12    North of the Mahi command area, the soils developed on the fluviatile
alluvium become increasingly sandy ranging from sandy loam through loamy sand
to almost pure sand in the degraded dune area of the extreme north. Salinity
levels are generally low in the eastern part of the command, but increase in
the vicinities of the Ranns of Kutch and in the trough between the mainland
and Saurashtra.
4.13    The coastal alluvial soils around the Gulf of Cambay are generally
heavy clay and clay loam. A large part of this area falls within the Bhal
soil type with high levels of alkalinity and salinity and with shallow



-22-
groundwater levels. These soils present extreme problems for irrigation and
drainage. At higher elevations the coastal alluvial soils are leached and
then form a typical black cotton soil. The coastal alluvial soils fringing
the Gulf of Kutch and the Ranns of Kutch are generally of sandy loam with
high salinity levels.
4.14    Heavy lateritic soils are developed on the traprocks of Saurashtra.
They are usually well drained to moderately well drained and have low
salinity levels. Soil profile depth is the main constraint in some parts of
the area, thus, could be limiting. The soils are often developed in pockets
separated by rock outcrops.
Rexionalization
4.15    The Sardar Sarovar command area is characterized by wide diversities
of agro-climatic and socio-economic features. As the impact of irrigation is
likely to be diffe_ent in the various parts of the command, it is necessary
that the diversities are taken into account in developing an appropriate
planning and development strategy.
4.16    A basic breakdown into 13 more or less internally homogeneous regions
was achieved by considering mean annual rainfall, land irrigability class,
groundwater quantity and quality, and drainage conditions. The rainfall and
irrigability classes were the primary parameters for delineation and the
region limits were then further refined on the basis of groundwater and
drainage characteristics. The finally adopted regionalization is illustrated
by map IBRD 17811 and region profiles that consider land use and irrigation,
cropping pattern, demographic characteristics, and land holding size, as
summarized in table 5.
The People
4.17    Birth rates in Gujarat are among the highest in India.  Since 1970,
Gujarat's population has increased by 2.4% annually to 35.8 N people in 1983.
Overall economic development and acceleration of industrial growth have
enhanced urbanization. With 31% of Gujarat's population living in urban
areas, the state is among the most urbanized in India. A major concentration
of urban population clusters along the Abmedabad to Vadodara to Surat axis in
mainland Gujarat.
4.18    About 7% of Gujarat's population belong to scheduled castes and
around 14% to scheduled tribes. Whereas the latter group is concentrated in
the eastern and southeastern hilly areas, scheduled castes are spread over
the state. The majority of the scheduled castes draws its livelihood from
agriculture in rural areas, and agricultural laborers account for almost 50%
of the working population of the group. Subsistence agricultural production
continues to occupy the majority of tribal groups, although the government
has increased efforts to improve socioeconomic conditions for these groups
through special programs.
4.19    Industrialization has led to an augmentation of employment in secon-
dary and tertiary sectors, and in 1981 about 40% of the working population
were employed in this sector. However, agriculture and forestry-based
industries dominate in terms of employment, and the agricultural sector
presently absorbs 60% of Gujarat's working population.



-23-
4.20    With insignificant improvements in average agricultural incomes in
Gujarat over the last decade, the proportion of the rural population living
in relative poverty remains high. The proportion of rural poor in Gujarat
has declined from about 51X in 1968 to 44% in 1976. The incidence of rural
poverty varies among regions in Gujarat, reflecting differences in agricul-
tural production conditions, differing cropping intensities, and water
availability. The eastern hilly areas with a high concentration of tribal
population and low agricultural productivity still have the highest propor-
tion of rural poor (58%). Low soil fertility, unreliable rainfall, and lack
of irrigation facilities hamper agricultural production in the dry areas of
the north, which is in part reflected in the higher average farm sizes in
these districts. Rural poverty is lowest in Saurashtra (18%) and in central
Gujarat (29%). The latter region is characterized by high population den-
sity, predominance of relatively small farms, and fertile soils. The govern-
ment has concentrated its major irrigation works in the central and southern
parts of mainland Gujarat.
4.21    Income differences among regions and farms are determined by techni-
cal and managerial qualifications of farmers, soils, climate, farm sizes, and
availability of irrigation. The data tabulated below show that average farm
sizes are significantly lower in central Gujarat, with its favorable produc-
tion conditions, than in the dry and less fertile regions of the north.
Farm Size Distribution by Region
(Z)
Northern                       Central
Farm Size             Gujarat      drv areas      Saurastra    Gujarat Rlain
(ha)               Farms Area    Farms Area    Farms Area    Farms  Area
Below 1               24    4       8.4   0.9      8.9   1.3      39.6   9.4
1-2                   22    9      15.1   3.9    18.4   6.1       25.6  17.3
2-5                   32   30      34.3  19.9    39.0  28.4       26.8  39.3
5-10                  16   32      25.9  32.0    25.5  39.1        7.5  23.5
Above 10               6   25       16.3  43.3     8.2  25.1       1.5  10.5
Average farm size (ha) 3.44            5.74          4.55            2.13
4.22    With increasing agricultural population over the last decade, the
average farm size decreased and the proportion of landless laborers in the
agricultural work force rose from 34.3% in 1971 to 37.72 in 1981. Landless
laborers are concentrated in mainland Gujarat, mainly in the economically
backward regions of the south, but also in the central plains where already
small farm sizes prevail.
4.23    Gujarat has strictly enforced tenancy legislation giving tenants
ownership rights to the land they previously rented. Depending on the type
of tenancy, the land was transferred to the tenants either with or without
payment to the former owners. According to the 1970 agricultural census, 97Z
of all holdings were fully owned, 2% were partly owned and partly rented, and
1% wholly rented.



-24-
4.24    Ongoing shifts are from subsistence oriented to market oriented
production, from low-yielding coarse grains to wheat, and from food to non-
food crops (with emphasis on cotton, groundaut, other oilseeds, and tobacco
production). These shifts, together witb the pace of adoption of high yield-
ing varieties (HYVs) and the growth of fertilizer consumption over the last
decade, indicate that the Gujarat farmers, specially those in the small-farm
dominated central plains, are responsive to technical innovations. They may
be characterized as progressive risk taking entrepreneurs.
Crops and Yields
4.25    A detailed description of the major crops, their varieties and yields
can be found in SDV, annex 5. Only the major crops are highlighted in the
following paragraphs. Some 40% of the SSP command area is under cash crops,
the remainder under foodgrain and fodder crops.
4.26    Foodgrains.  Among the foodgrains, pearl millet is the most impor-
tant, followed by wheat and sorghum. Rice is of secondary importance. Pul-
ses, mainly pigeon pea and gram, complement the diet as a source of proteins.
Pearl millet is typically a rainfed monsoon crop, although with irrigation it
is also grown in the hot season, giving higher yields. Some 80% of the crop
consists of high-yielding hybrids. Yields in the kharif season average about
0.6 tons/ha, and from an irrigated summer crop about 2.0-2.5 tons/ha. Sor-
ghum is the other main kharif crop, but is sown in the rabi season as well.
It is a preferred source of fodder (as a by-product), and some varieties are
grown mainly or exclusively for this purpose. Rainfed yields are low at
0.4-0.5 tons/ha in kharif, and somewhat higher in rabi with 0.6-0.7 tons/ha.
Although short duration, HYVs are available, they have been slow in replacing
the traditional ones, due to lower fodder yield and grain quality. So far
only 15% of the crop consists of hybrids. Sorghum is seldom irrigated;
irrigated yields are between 1.5 tons and 2.5 tons/ha. The potential of
irrigated hybrids is upward of 3 tons/ha. Wheat is the dominant rabi crop,
with more than one third being irrigated. Most of the rainfed crop is durum
wheat, often grown in areas with heavy soils subject to waterlogging during
the monsoon period. Durum yields average about 0.5 tons/ha. Bread wheat is
nearly always irrigated, and consists mainly of modern HYVs. It is sensitive
to planting time and should be sown from early November to first week of
December. Irrigated yields vary from 1.6 tons to 2.8 tons/ha. Its potential
is upward of 4.5 tons/ha. Rice is grown in the kharif both as an unirrigated
(upland) crop and as irrigated paddy crop. Rainfed rice is restricted to
areas with more than 900 mm rainfall and moisture retentive soils, and yields
between 0.8 tons and 1.2 tons/ha. Irrigated, transplanted rice accounts for
more than half the rice area and is mostly found under tank and canal irriga-
tion. Modern HYVs are used throughout under irrigation. Yields average from
1.5 tons to 2.5 tons/ha.
4.27    The most important pulse is pigeon pea ("tur," or red gram).  It is
grown in the areas with higher rainfall in the command. It is a long dura-
tion crop (180-200 days) and often intercropped with jowas or cotton. As a
sole crop it yields 1.5-2.0 tonsiha with protective irrigation, though new
varieties have a potential of up to 3 tons/ha. Present yields average about
0.5-0.6 tons/ha. Due to favorable relative prices, pigeon pea and other
pulses have been increasing in recent years. Other kharif pulses include
green gram ("mung"), which is also a popular short duration hot season crop
under irrigation, black gram, moth bean and cow peas. Their present yields
are low at around 0.2 tons/ha. Chick pea (gram) is the major rabi pulse



-25-
growing on residual moisture. While not water demanding, it is responsive to
some irrigation and may then yield 1.6 tons/ha, with a potential of up to 3
tons/ha. Rainfed yields average about 0.6 tons/ha.
4.28    Cash Crops.  The predominant cash crop in the SSP command is cotton.
Some 37Z of the net area is sown to this crop, about one sixth of which is
irrigated. Among the irrigated crops, it is the most important one, occupy-
ing about half of the gross irrigated area. It is grown on heavy and medium
black soils almost throughout the command. Under rainfed conditions it is a
low input, low yield crop averaging under 400 kg of seed cotton per ha.
Rainfed local varieties are of short to medium staple (23-27 nm) jj, includ-
ing herbaceua, arboreum, and hirsutum types, and of long duration
(220-270 days). Irrigated varieties are almost exclusively medium to long
staple hybrids, the most popular of which is CH4 (29 jn, 210 days).  Gujarat
Hybrid 6 has been released recently, is somewhat earlier maturing, higher
yielding and of superior spinning quality. Yields under irrigation average
about 1.1 tons/ha, although the potential is more than 4 tons/ha of seed
cotton. The cotton area has contracted slightly in the recent past; yield
gains have been compensated for partially by reduction.
4.29    The second group of cash crops are oilseeds, of which groundnut,
mustard/rapeseed, end castor are the most important. Gujarat is a major
groundnut producer for the Indian market, but the SSP command covers only
part of the main growing area located in Saurashtra peninsula. Groundnut
is mainly a rainfed kharif crop grown on well drained, medium texture soils.
The crop is very sensitive to rainfall conditions, with large parts of the
crop being lost in major droughts. Average rainfed yields are about 0.7-0.8
tons/ha. Only small areas are irrigated in kharif, but it is a very popular
hot season crop when irrigation is available. Yields of a summer crop may
reach 2.2 tons/ha, the potential being 3 tons/ha. Irrigated kharif yields
could be 1.8 tons/ha under adequate pest and disease control. Mustard is an
increasingly popular rabi crop in the northern parts of the command, mainly
under irrigation, when it may yield some 1.3 tons/ha. Its potential yield is
3 tons/ha. Castor has tripled in area over the last decade, also mainly in
the northern parts of the command. About 20Z of the crop is irrigated. High
yielding hybrids (160 days) are available, with a potential of 3 tons/ha
under irrigation. Rainfed yields average about 1.1 tons/ha. The crop has a
high value due to export demand for castor oil.
4.30    Gujarat produces over 80% of the "Bidi" tobacco in India.O. The
tobacco area has expanded substantially in the last ten years, and production
has doubled. It is a crop for specialized farmers in a few regions of the
SSP command only. The crop is susceptible to high water tables (from irriga-
tion), but pests and diseases are of minor importance. Rainfed yields
average about 0.8 tons/ha and irrigated yield 2 tons/ha. The area and
production of fruits and vegetables has expanded considerably in recent
years, although it is statistically insufficiently recorded. Spices and
condiments are important especially for private well owners. Sugarcane is of
little importance in the SSP command being a crop of south Gujarat.
/J Medium staple in the Indian usage would classify mostly as short on the
world market; Indian long staple would classify as medium.
Li) Bidi is the traditional, rolled-leaf type Indian cigarette.



-26-
V. THE PROJECT
Scope and Objectives
5.01    The Project would finance a three year time slice of the construction
program of the water delivery and drainage systems in the SSP area. The
selection of a three year time sLice reflects the inability to commit finan-
cial resources over the prolonged twenty-two year period required for full
development of the SSP (paras 1.01-1.04) as well as current and foreseeable
fiscal constraints. The overall 'ong term objectives of the SSP are sum-
marized in para 2.04. The objectives of this project are to achieve physical
targets which are limited by activities scheduled within the three year time
slice as described below (para 5.02) and to establish the institutional
framework required for project implementation and operation.
Detailed Features
5.02    Conveyance, Delivery and Drainage Systems.  Construction would be
undertaken on the following parts of the conveyance and delivery systems:
(a)  Main canal lining from 9 km  to 21.4 km (construction completed
in time slice);
Cb) Main canal excavation, lining and structures from 21.4 km to
143.7 km (construction 55Z complete in time slice);
Cc) Main canal head regulator and about ten gated cross-regulators from
zero to 143.7 km (70% complete in time slice);
Cd) Seven major cross-drainage structures on the Heran, Orsang, Dev, Karad,
Meshri, Kun and Mahi rivers (construction 55% complete in time slice);
Ce) Miyagam branch canal from zero to 72 km (construction 70% complete
in time slice);
(f) Por, Khundela, and Untiya branch canals (construction 100% complete
in time slice);
(g) Vadodara branch canal from zero to 102 km (construction 35% complete
in time slice);
(h)  Amleshwar, Sinor, Luwara, Mandwa, Jambusar, Sakarda, Ranoli and Dora
branch canals (construction 35Z complete in time slice);
(i) Twelve distribution and drainage system development blocks including 6A-1
through -4, 6B, 6C, 7C, 9A-1, 9B-1, 9B-2, 9C-1 and 9C-2. These and
other proposed development block areas are shown on map IBRD 17693
(construction 25% complete in time slice) (see para 2.08); and
(j)  Distributary canal reaches offtaking from the respective branch
canals extending down to village SAs to serve each of the twelve
distribution and drainage system development blocks enumerated in
(i) above (construction 45% complete in time slice).
5.03    Training and Technical Assistance.  Specific training required for
project staff would cover the following:



-27-
Ca) environmental sciences and related mitigation measures;
(b) field survey, layout, design, and estimating activities for block
development of minor irrigation and drainage networks;
(c) operation and maintenance of the project facilities including computor
based centralized data information systems and communication and
remote control systems for project O&M; and
(d) establishment and preparation of a permanent OEM training facility
including buildings and provision of training equipment.
A training support component for the project is therefore included (paras
7.13-7.14). Also, technical assistance for the project would be required in
the following categories:
(d) overall project design, construction, and quality control of the
project works including computer based centralized data and informa-
tion systems;
Ce) planning and designing a system of O&M for the SSI water conveyance,
delivery and drainage facilities including plans and studies needed
for annual, seasonal and daily operations and technical evaluations to
support design requirements;
Cf) selection, design, and installation of project-wide communications and
centralized computer-based remote control systems for use during SSP
O&M phases; and
Cg) establishment and maintenance of a Consultancy Board to independently
review designs and construction of the conveyance canals, major struc-
tures and the distribution and drainage networks and to recommend
modifications as required and/or to identify for use of the Narmada
Development Department (NDD) specific technical tasks that may require
the attention of appropriate experts. 1/
5.04    Water Conveyance and Delivery Systems.  The 438 km long main canal
would be among the largest water conveyance systems in existence or being
planned in the world. It would receive its water through gated headworks
located on the last of four small balancing reservoirs fed from the CHP1i or
the irrigation by-pass tunnel of Sardar Sarovar Reservoir. The irrigation
by-pass tunnel would release water up to 1,133 cumecs (main canal design
capacity). The invert and control facilities of the tunnel were set at an
elevation that allows maximum utilization of storage capacity in the main
reservoir. Salient technical features of the main canal are summarized in
table 6.
5.05    The main canal is nominally designed for a flow of 1133 cumecs at
its head with a full supply level (FSL) of 91.46 m. It terminates at the
jj A list will be constituted, in accordance with Bantk guidelines of
appropriate experts and consultants both local and expatriate which will
be available to NDD for use in solving specific technical problems.



-28-
Rajasthan border, generally reducing in capacity at each turnout, where its
design flow would be 71.1 cumecs with a FSL of 39.94 m. The FSLs at both
the head and tail of the main canal were prescribed by the NWDT. The design
includes a 12.5 cm thick unreenforced concrete lining on the sides and 10.0
cm in the bed. Side slopes would be 2:1 and bed gradient 1:12,500 from the
head to km 257 and 1:11,000 thereafter to the border. Bed width to depth
ratios along the alignment vary from about 10:1 at the head to 1.7:1 at the
state border and the velocities from 1.7 to 1.0 meters per second over the
same reach.
5.06    The main canal head reach would have sufficient capacity to convey a
peak demand imposed by the branches with appropriate water depth, lined
freeboard, and unlined bank freeboard. Cross-regulating structures would be
located as necessary to control water elevations in the canal within set
limits of fluctuation during normal and emergency operation, to store water
in the system during a shutdown, and to isolate any reaches or river cross-
ings, particularly those having significant potential for failure. Diver-
sions from the main canal would be limited to turnouts into branch canals.
All crossings of rivers where the canal would be confined in a structure
would incorporate multiple barrels or channels to allow deliveries with
isolation and shutdown of individual passages for repair. Gatea and fixed
weir escapes of limited capacity would also be provided.
5.07    'There would be an estimated 173 main canal structures up to and
including the Nahi crossing at km 143 and an overall total of 422 structures
up to the Rajasthan border at km 438. The main canal structures up to the
Nahi River would include: the head regulator; ten cross-regulators, including
single-purpose regulators and cross-regulators combined with head-regulators,
road bridges and/or escapes; eight cross-regulators (branch turnouts); seven
aqueducts; 70 drainage syphons or syphon aqueducts; one super passage; 11
three canal crossings; 69 road bridges and five railway bridges.
5.08    Large cross-drainage structures would be required along the main
canal alignment to protect it against flood drainage. hajor crossings
include the Heran, Orsang, Den, Kanad, Meshri, Kun, and hahi rivers. Designs
are being completed by either private consultants or by the main canal design
circles of the ID. Both aqueduct and invertea siphon (underground pipe) type
structures would be utilized depending on specific site conditions. Up to
the hahi a total of 78 cross-drainage structures would be required (table 6).
Peak flood flows are estimated at about 68,000 cumecs for the ?lahi River and
about 20,000 cumecs for the Orsang. Cross-drainage design flood criteria
are summarized in table 7. These criteria would apply projectwide, but cross
drainage requirements on branch and distributary canals would be minimal
because of their typical ridge alignments.
5.09    Computer-based single and multiple pool hydraulic transient studies
during project preparation helped to simulate both normal and emergency
operations as a means of spacing cross-regulators and placing branch turnout
structures. Radial gates would be provided for all control sLructures over
8.5 cumecs in size (see paras 5.19-5.23). Maximum spacing between
jj A super passage is a cross-drainage structure designed to convey flood
waters across a canal above the elevation of the canal prism.



-29-
cross-regulators would be about 15 km. Main canal design studies have indi-
cated that the minimum freeboard requirements would be 1.25 m lined with
provision of minimum unlined freeboard and additional lining and/or embank-
ment freeboard as may be necessary to protect against wind run-up and wave
action that would occur along the canal including those critical reaches
lying just upstream of the cross-regulators (table 6).
5.10    Structural designs of the canal along excavation and embankment
reaches up to the Mlahi River have been extensively investigated. Large
quantities of good materials are available for construction of zoned embank-
ments throughout, including clay core and lining base materials. Excavated
sections in the head reaches of the canal from km 0 to km 21.7 present no
unusual design problems although rock sections must be overexcavated, back-
filled with suitable compacted materials and trimmed to provide a suitable
base for lining.
5.11    The branch canals would be lined and would have channel configura-
tions, in-line structures, and turnouts similar to the main canal. Their
design would also reflect appropriate hydraulic transient analyses. The
canal operation and means of control of in-line cross-regulators and turnouts
would be similar to those used in the main canal. All diversions from the
branch canals would be made through turnouts to lined sub-branches and dis-
tributaries. The distributaries would convey water to the SA turnouts. The
distributaries would be regulated to facilitate the maintenance of the
delivery rates to the SA. The mode of control of the gates in the turnouts
to distributaries from branch canals and the in-line structures in the dis-
tributaries would be governed by the same criteria as in the branch canals.
5.12    The SA would receive water through one turnout from a distributary.
This structure would have an adjustable flow control device that would be
locked at a given setting for the season. Thereafter, an open/shut gate
would be used to make deliveries to the SA. Within the SA, lined minors or
pipelines would provide the appropriate flows at each point of diversion to a
chak. The diversion structures to the chak subminors would have fixed
devices for consistent proportioning of the range of flows anticipated or
adjustable devices lockea at set positions.
5.13    All farm deliveries would be made from the subminors and zield chan-
nels or pipelines. Farm turnouts would not be permittea in any higher order
channel. An on/o±f gated structure at the farm turnout would permit full
closure whenever the turnout is not in use.
5.14    Layout of facilities within a SA would take advantage of existing
village storage tanks or would permit construction of short-term storage in
the future. Storage would allow retention of flows being delivered to the SA
at night for use in irrigation during daylight hours only. Enlargement of
minor systems below the SA take-out, however, would be required in the future
if night storage were to be implemented.
5.15    Agency groundwater would be introduced at the SA turnout, unless full
development of groundwater dictates that it be introducea upstream. In
either case, Agency groundwater would be pumped in accordance with the
seasonal schedule set for the SA.
5.16    Facilities above the SA level in any region would be designed to
deliver to the SA between 0.6 lps/ha net CCA and 0.8 lps/ha net CCA, except



-30-
in regions 4, 7, and 11 where a value of 0.45 lps/ha of the presently defined
CCA would be used. However, the distribution system to those lands finally
designated to receive water in regions would be sized to meet full crop
needs, raising the actual capacity of the facilities to a value similar to
that in the other regions. 1/ The maximum delivery capacity of minors and
subminors would be 0.9 lps/ha net CCA.
5.17    The capacity of each main canal reach would reflect the peak demands
imposed on it by the requirement of the branches served downstream and of
Rajasthan. Since all branches would not peak simultaneously, the headworks
capacity would be less than the arithmetic sum of the annual peaks in the
branches. Variations in precipitation conditions within the project area
during kharif, staggered planting dates, and differing seasons of maximum
irrigation among the regions, were considered in defining main canal
capacity.
5.18    Due to the uncertain amount and location of agency groundwater
development less reliance can be placed on this source for peak supply. The
main canal would therefore be sized to deliver the sum of peak demands of all
branches downstream of the Nohra branch at 119 km plus peak Rajasthan
deliveries and main canal losses. From Nohra branch to the Leadworks, the
values obtained by continuing this accumulation of branch demands and main
canal losses have been gradually reducea from 100% at Nobra branch to 80X at
vadia branch at 10 km.
5.19    Flow Monitoring. Control, and Communications.  Conditions of water
surface elevations, canal discharge, status of gates in regulating structures
and turnouts, and pumping plants would be monitored remotely from a desig-
nated control center. Conditions would be displayed to indicate the status
of facilities, and to depict physical relationships of the facilities in the
field. Audiovisual alarms would be displayed and actuated for each site.
5.20    Control of gates with capacity of 8.5 cumecs and greater would be by:
on-site manual operation; on site automatic operation where a local control-
ler device is set to operate a gate to maintain a selected water surface
elevation upstream or downstream of the structure; remote setting of the
water surface that the local controller is to maintain; remote operation of
all gates in a structure by overriding the local controller. Pump units in
pumping plants may be operated in a like manner.
5.21    Gates in regulators in all distributaries smaller than 8.5 cumecs
would be designed to allow future incorporation of the above provisions. The
initially installed equipment would permit the local control of water sur-
faces. At key structures, a local readout device and automatic recording of
gate settings and water surfaces would be provided to register flow and total
deliveries.
i} The actual areas to be served in regions 4,7, and 11 are not ver deter-
mined, but would be less than the net CGA figure now used for planning.
Water allocations per ha on the final net CCA to these regions would be
increased correspondingly.



-31-
5.22    Computer and electric equipment would be selected to meet monitoring
and coutrol needs as well as the operations scheduling and management needs.
Standby power sufficient to retain the remote control communication link to
the control center would be provided at key sites.
5.23    Cormunication facilities of the necessary reliability would be con-
structed linking all sites to be monitored and controlled with the designated
control center. Communication links would be necessary to relay information
between the O&M staff responsible for delivery to SA and between the SA and
the responsible control center. Links would also be needed among all control
centers in the project. A reliable looped system with backup would be
provided throughout the SSP.
5.24    Drainase System Desi2n.  The drainage system would consist of a
surface network of open channels and groundwater control wells. Excess
precipitation would be collected in a system of unlined channels. Drop
structures would control erosion of the channels. Where base flows would
occur, the channel invert would be lowered to an aaequate depth to preclude
waterlogging of lands. Where substantial base flows of adequate quality
would occur, reclaiming such waters for re-use would be considered, usually
through pumping plants.
5.25    Surface drainage facilities would have appropriate freeboard to
convey the design storm to point of disposal at the design removal rate.
Unlike water supply canals, the drainage facilities cannot restrict the entry
of even greater flows caused by heavier storms. Particular attention would
therefore be given to controlling critical areas of erosion in the channel
and to assuring the safety of all bridges, culverts, drop and other struc-
tures.
5.26    Where groundwater levels are shallow and hydro-geological conditions
permit, surface drainage channels may be used for groundwater drainage. This
mode of groundwater control may be effective near deep channels, waterways,
and rivers. In the coarse alluvial area on the mainland, groundwater levels
would be controlled through agency tubevells discharging into the delivery
system where water quality permits, or into disposal areas where water
quality is poor. Private well operation would assist in the control func-
tion, but the agency well system must be completed to assure the necessary
control.
5.27    The SSP works including water conveyance and delivery networks, the
flow monitoring, control and communication systems, and the drainage systems
are described in in paras 5.04-5.26. Accordingly, agreement has been reachea
with GOG that it would plan, design, construct, operate and maintain the
project works in accordance with the concepts, policies, scope, objectives,
planning criteria, design and construction standards in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank and as enumerated in Schedule A.
Material Planning
5.28    Critical construction materials, including cement, steel, explosives,
petroleum, tires, and battery requirements have been estimated for the SSP
over the entire implementation period. The total SSP requirements are
estimated as follows: over 7 h metric tons (mt) of cement; about 240,000 mt
of steel; 15,000 mt of explosives; 675 1X liters of petroleum; and similarly
large quantities of goods such as tires, batteries, etc. The requirement for



-32-
cement and steel would be the most difficult to meet because of the vast
quantities and peak rates required. As shown in table 8, it has been
estimated that cement would be used at a rate of 500,000 at a year or greater
from 1987/88 through 1996/97 with a peak requirement of about 680,000 mt in
1989/90 for the main dam, power facilities, and canal system. Similarly, as
shown in table 9, it is estimated that steel would be required at a rate
exceeding 20,000 mt a year from 1987/88 through 1991/92 peaking at about
33,400 ut in 1989/90. At least half of the production from the newly con-
structed 2000 mt/day cement plant near Surat would be dedicated for use of
the project. At full use production from the new plant would serve an
estimated two thirds of the project's total requirements from 1986 through
1994. Any additional requirements would come from locationn and sources
normally available to the state that are located near the center of construc-
tion as the project progresses across Gujarat. However, given the scarcity
of cement from domestic production, at least part of the requirements will
have to be imported. Establishment of the Centralized Procurement Unit (para
7.19) would provide the necessary logistic mechanism for continuous projec-
tion of the project's critical materials needs. Agreement has been reached
with GUG that it would assure the supply of quality materials critically
needed for construction over the project's implementation, including but not
limited to cement and steel in accordance with construction requirements.
ImRlementation Schedule
5.29    The project would be implemented over a three year time slice from
1985 through 1988. The main construction period is from October to May,
although certain activities can continue throughout the monsoon season.
Major implementation activities for the SSP and the first three year time
slice are shown in figure 1 (sheet 2).
5.30    Contracts have been let and construction is underway on the four
rockfill dams and link channels to create reregulating ponds above the main
canal headworks. Construction has also started on three reaches of the main
canal from ;he headworks to 21.4 km. Designs have been completed for the
main canal reach km 21-50.  Final designs on the Beran River crossing and the
head and cross-regulator gates up to the Iahi River were essentially com-
pleted in 1984. Final designs for the initial reach (km 0-19) of the Miyagam
branch canal and three cistribution and drainage system blocks under that
branch are nearing completion.
5.31    An understanding was reached at negotiations witb GOG that it would
implement the project works in accordance with schedules satisfactory to the
Bank. Also,, an agreement has been reached with GOG that it would acquire all
lands and rights needed for carrying out the project and furnish the Bank
promptly after such acquisition with satisfactory evide.;e that all necessary
lands and rights would be available for purposes of implementing the project.



-33-
VI. COST ESTIM&TES AND FINANCING
Project Cost Estimates
6.01    The total estimated cost for the three year time slice for the three
water delivery and drainage component.s of the project is US$520.9 M, including
physical and price contingencies. The time slice is initiated in the last
quarter of 1984185. This amount includes a foreign exchange cost of about
US$148.1 M or 28Z of total estimated cost. Taxes and duties account for about
US$29.3 h or 5.6Z of the project cost. Estimated base c-sts are given in
November i984 prices. Detailed cost estimates are gi-i - in tables 10 through
16 and are summarized below:
Time Slice Proiect Cost Summary
X      Z Total
Foreign     Base
Component         Local ForeiRn   Total   Local Forei2n   Total Exchanze   Costs
(Rs million)--             (Us million)
1. Main canal      2,300.5  1,012.1  3,312.6   191.7    b4.3    276.0        31        73
2. Branches           552.9    239.5    792.4    46.1    20.0      66.0    30          lb
3. Distribution
& drainage
systems          343.2      46.2    389.4    28.6      3.8     32.5      12         9
4. Training &
tech. assist.      3.0      11.8     14.8      0.2     1.0      1.2    80           0
Total baseline
costs          3,199.5  1,309.6  4,509.1   266.6   109.1    375.8        29       100
Physical cont.        41X.1    179.3    590.5    34.3    14.9      49.2    30          13
Price cont.           863.5    287.9  1.151.4    72.0    24.0       96.0    25         26
Total project
costs            4,474.2  1,776.8  6,251.0   372.8   148.1    520.9        28       139
6.02    Physical contingencies were estimated separately for each component
and total approximately US$49.2 or 13.1Z of the total baseline cost of
US$375.8. Price contingencies account for approximately US§96.0 h or 25.5%
of total base costs and are computed on the following rates: local rates of
8.5% from 1984-85 through 1990-91 and 6.0% in 19919/2 and thereafter; and,
foreign rates of 9.75Z in 1984-85, 8.75Z in 1985-86, 7% in 1986-87, and 6%
thereafter.
O0eration and Maintenance (OEM) Cost Estimates
6.03    The estimated O&h costs for the water delivery and drainage project are
given in table 17. This table also includes the estimated cost to government
for energy required for operating the communication and control system, con-
junctive use and drainage wells and for the net pumping requirements of large
generation and pumping plants planned for installation on the Saurashtra and



-34-
Kutch branch canals. Total o&i cost at full development on this basis is
estimated at Rs 856 H or about Rs 460 (US$38.3) per hectare of net CCA;
however, about one third of those costs would be for groundwater conjunctive
use and drainage pumping energy, and for net lift energy required for pumping
on the Saurashtra and Kutch branch canals.
Cost Sharing
6.04    The cost of constructing the main canal would be shared between the
beneficiary states of Gujarat and Rajasthan. The costs cf the branch canals,
and distribution and drainage systems would be borne completely by Gujarat.
6.05    The cost sharing for constructing the main canal is based on a formula
stipulated by NWDT, which proportioned cost according to cusec miles j/ (with
2,500 cusec-delivery capacity to the Rajasthan border). The formula also
accounted for the additional cost to Gujarat resulting from the NWDT order
stipulating the elevation at which the canal should intersect the Rajasthan
border, thus fixing the canal's overall gradient. V Accordingly, Rajasthan
would be responsible for about 10 of the total main canal cost or US438 h for
the time slice. Gujarat would pay for the remaining cost of the main canal and
100% of the other three components, or US$483 M.
Financinx
6.06    The project would be assisted by an IDA credit of US$150 M.  After
deducting taxes and duties of US*29.3 M, the amount to be financed would be
about US$492 M. Thus, the proposed credit of US$150 M would finance 30% of the
total project cost net of taxes and duties or 100% of the foreign exchange rost
of US$148.1 M and USSl.9 M of the local cost.  The IDA credit would be made
available to GOI on standard IDA terms. GOI would make the proceeds of the
credit available to Gujarat in proportion to its contribution to project costs
as part of Central assistance to state development projects on terms and condi-
tions applicable at the time. For Rajasthan, financing of its obligations
under the NWDT decision should not pose difficulties due to its low financing
share as a proportion both of total project costs, and of its overall invest-
ment programs in irrigation and power.  For Gujarat, howiever, harmada Basin
investments would absorb considerable financing resources and could place a
strain on its irrigation and power budgets.
6.07    Prospective investment programs in irrigation and in power, for the
Seventh Plan period (1985/86-19b9/90) have been analyzed to ensure that Narmada
investments can be accommodated without undue displacement of investments in
other sectors or critical operation and maintenance expenditures in each State.
Total contributions from Gujarat to the SSP and the upcoming Narmada Sagar
A/ Rate of flow in cusecs multiplied by the number of miles. Metric equiv-
alents to NWDT stipulated English units are used elsewhere in this report.
j/ The resulting gradient is flatter than Gujarat would have chosen for its
own purposes. This results in a higher cost.



-35-
Project in MP are expected to absorb about 65% of Gujarat's irrigation budget
over the Seventh PlLD period. .1j
6.08    Since Gujarat, under the Seventh Plan, has stated its intention of
according the highest priority to Narmada investments and have indicated that
new investments outside the Narmada development schemes would be limited during
this period, Narmada investments are expected to be supportable under its state
Plan. Moreover, since Narmada investments are interstate projects of con-
siderable national importance, GOI has indicated that it would, if necessary,
be prepared to adopt special measures to ensure that sufficient funds are
available to GOG to ensure timely completion of the investments. Assurances
have been obtained that GOI would provide all funds necessary promptly, as and
when needed, to complete the project.
6.09    Agreements have been reached with GOI that it would:
(a) make the proceeds of the IDA credit available to GOG in accordance with
its standard arrangements for development assistance to the States;
(b) cause GOG to implement the project in accordance with its obligations
including provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources
needed to achieve its purposes; and
(c) cause GOR to perform it obligations regarding implementation of the
project as provided for in the NWDT decision.
Agreement also has been reached with GOG that it would:
ud) provide sufficient funds, facilities, services and other resources
required to carry out the project; and
(e) after the IDA credit has been disbursed, complete in a timely manner
the irrigation and drainage systems and other water supply facilities
under the SSP located within its state boundaries in accordance with
standards and criteria satisfactory to the Bank (see para 2.06).
6.10    GOI has agreed that the effectiveness of the IDA credit for the Water
Delivery and Drainage Project would be dependent upon the concurrent effective-
ness of the IBRD loan and IDA credit for the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power
Project in order to assure the concurrent and timely implementation of both
projects whose facilities are mutually dependent one upon the other.
Procurement
6.11    Work contracts to be let during the three year credit period would cost
an estimated total of US$461 M. However, these work contracts would not be
completed during the time slice designated for the credit. Therefore, only a
part of these contracts would be eligible for financing under the credit. The
J For Madhya Pradesh, which will finance Narmada investments from its irriga-
tion and power budgets, the proportion is expected to be about 80%.



-36-
value of expenditures on the work contracts within the time slice is projected
to be US$246 M. Procurement schedules, figures 7 to 9, show that final design
preparations are completed, well advanced or continuing at a rapid pace for
major work segments covered by the credit. Thereby, designs have been com-
pleted and ICB prequalification applications requested for the first two
reaches, km 21 to 50 and km 50 to 80, of the main canal. The final design and
bid package of the next reach is underway and scheduled for completion in 1985,
and the final reach, up to km 143 (Mahi River), would be initiated and com-
pleted in 1985. Designs of the Heran River crossing would be finalized early
in 1985 while other major river crossing structure designs are to be initiated
and completed in 1985 except the Nahi crossing which vould be completed in
1986. The design packages for head and cross-regulator gates at 11 locations
up to the Mahi are scheduled for completion early in 1985 (figure 7). Designs
for three and two reaches, respectively, of the Miyagam and Vadodara (major)
branch canals as well as reaches of the Por, Untiya, Kundhela, Amleshwar and
Sinor (minor) branches are scheduled for initiation and completion between 1984
and 1985 (figure 8). Desigus for four distribution and drainage blocks are now
underway and would be essentially completed in 1985, with 8 additional blocks
scheduled for completion by the third quarter of 1986 (figure 9). All nine ICB
works contracts on the main canal, as well as those three ICB works contracts
on the branch canals, which are in excess of US410 M, would be subject to
prequalification. Contracts would be awarded within the proposed three-year
time slice with construction progress expected as discussed in para 5.02.
Procurement schedules, figures 7 to 9, give detailed projections on how and
when the individual works would be put to bid, started and completed and those
procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method
Project Element           ICB      LCB      Other         Total
- -- -(USA   million)
1. Works
Main Canal          346.50     -0-      -0-        346.50
Branch Canal         30.29    33.55    -0-          63.84
Distribution &
Drainage System    19.94    30.72    -0-           50.66
Sub-total          396.73    64.27       0         461.00
2. Training & Technical
Assistance            -0-      -0-      1.2          1.2
Total                 396.73    64.27    1.2         462.20
Percentage of total    86%       14X (about .2%)      IOOZ
6.12    Nine work contracts on the main canal, three on the branch canals, and
three on the distribution and drainage systems with a total value of about
US$397 K would be let through internationa'l competitive bidding (ICB) proce-
dures. Therefore, approximately 86%, by value, of the US$462 M contracts to be
let during credit time slice would be let through ICB procedures. The remain-
ing contracts worth less than US$6 M each, and about US464 M in total, would be



-37-
too small to be of interest to foreign bidders. Works contracts in excess of
US$1 M and all goods contracts in excess of US$100,000 would be subject to
pre-action review by the Bank with all other contracts subject to the Bank's
post-action review. Over 95% of the works, by value, would be subject to the
Bank's pre-action review. Indian contractors would be given a 7.5% preference
in comparing bids awarded under ICB procedures. In addition, miscellaneous
equipment for training including audiovisual and other special goods would be
acquired under the training program through prudent shopping.
Disbursements
6.13    Disbursements would be made against 60% of expenditures for civil works
and against lUOX of eligible expenditures for training and technical assis-
tance. No disbursements would be made for works constructed by government
forces. Disbursements for payments of less than Rs 300,00U for works, and all
payments for training would be made against certificates of expenditures.
Documentation for these expenditures would be retained by GOG and made avail-
able for inspection by the Bank. Full documentation would be required for all
other disbursements. The estimated schedule of expenditures by project com-
poLent, the disbursement schedule, and the proposed allocation of the credit
are given in tables 16, 18, and 19, respectively.
Accounts and Audits
6.14    The project would be subject to normal government control and auditing
procedures that are satisfactory. A resident audit officer representing the
State Accountant General would audit the project accounts. Separate accounts
would be maintained for project expenditures. Although continuous and annual
audits are carried out in a timely manner, their finalization is a lengthy
process in the Statutory Audit Report presented to the Legislature. It would
be essential, therefore, to have interim certified statements of account,
including audited statements of expenditures. Such statements, certified by
the Accountant General or his designee and supported by an itemized account and
summary of expenditures, would be submitted to the Bank as soon as possible
after the end of each fiscal year. Agreements have been reached with GOG that
it would:
(a)  maintain separate accounts for project expenditures;
(b)  ensure that such project accounts are audited annually and that
copies of such accounts, certified as to their accuracy by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, are submitted to the Bank
not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year;
(c)  have final audits prepared for project accounts for each fiscal year
by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and forward such audit reports
to the Bank immediately after their finalization; and
(d)  make complete accounts and financial statements available for
inspection during Bank review missions.



-38-
VII.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT j
General
7.01    The Niarmada Development Department (NDD) of GOG has primary respon-
sibility for planning, design, implementation and operation and maintenance of
the SSP. Bowever, because of the interstate nature of the project, a number of
coordinating institutions have been established in accordance with the rulings
of the ?WDT. Sevcral GOI organizations have played an active role in assisting
project planning and design, usually on a consultancy basis. In addition, the
CWC has fulfilled its normal review function. The organization and management
aspects discussed below relate to the irrigation water delivery and drainage
systems.
Interstate Azencuies
7.02    Narmada Control Authority (NCA).  This authority was established to
ensure compliance with the decisions of the NWDT. It consists of seven high
ranking engineers as members and a supporting staff. The four party states
each appoint one member, and GOI appoints, in consultation with the states, the
remaining three, one of whom serves as chairman. NCA would play a key role in
the implementation of the hydrometeorological network for flood warning and
operation of the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Reservoir and in monitoring and
evaluating the resettlement and rehabilitation of reservoir oustees. It would
also play a key part in coordinating the future operation of SSP and other
major irrigation and power projects in the basin. The NCA is modeled after the
Bakhra Management Board, which has been successful in guiding-the irrigation
and power operations of the Indus Basin in Punjab, Baryana, Himachal Pradesh,
and Raj as than.
7.03    Sardar Sarovar Construction Advisory Committee (CAC).  This committee
vas formed by NWDT primarily to supervise the planning, design, and construc-
tion of the dam and power complex. It is chaired by the Secretary of Irriga-
tion, GOI, and has, among others, the Chairmen of CWC and CEA and senior repre-
sentatives of the states as members. It is actively involved in reviewing
designs, cost estimates, contracts, and implementation progress.
7.04    Narmada Review Committee (NRC).  This NWDT designated committee is
chaired by the Union Minister of Irrigation and includes the concerned Chief
Ministers of each state as members. It has the right to review and rule on any
decisions by the NCA.
7.05    Agreements have been reached with GOI and GOG that they would maintain
the NCA and NRC each with the powers, functions, responsibilities, staffing,
funds and membership as may be required to carry out their respective duties.
jj Portions of this chapter are identical to comparable paragraphs of SAR No.
5107-IN, chapter VI.



-39-
Gujarat State Agencies
7.06    Irrimation.  The GOG irrigation organization recently has been sub-
divided into two major units to meet the special requirements of implementing
the SSP. Thus, there is now:
(a)  a barmada Development Department (NDD) headed by an Additional Chief
Secretary which is responsible for implementation and O&M of the
entire SS?; and
(b) an Irrigation Department (ID) headea by the Secretary with
responsibility for all irrigation development and O&K of all
public irrigation systems outside the SSP.
Each of the two departments would maintain similar staff positions and respon-
sibilities and would require a similar pool of technical and professional
talent.
7.07    Narmada Development DeRartment.  The NDD would be the main implementing
body for the SSP. In order to meet the challenge of this large and technically
complex project, the NDD would have to be strengthened and provided with the
necessary authorities. It would have to improve the management skills of its
senior staff and to make greater use of private sector consultancies.
Organizational pyramids are provided under chief engineers who report directly
to the Additional Chief Secretary. In the SSP four chief engineers have been
assigned planning, design, and construction responsibilities covering the
following elements of the project: main dam complex except hydropower com-
ponents; hydropower components; the main canal; and, branch canals, distribu-
tion and drainage networks. Another chief engineer level position with func-
tional responsibility for quality control is anticipated. Existing irrigation
staff strength in the NDD and in the ID, as of August 1983, are shown in the
following table:
Existing Strength of Irrigation Engineering Staff
Engineerint Position              1IDD            ID            NDD 4 IDD
(no.)           (no.)             (no.)
Chief                              3 la            7                10
Superintending and officers on
special duty                    18              39                57
Executive                         73 /b          219               292
Deputy executive                 307            1109              1416
Assistant and additional
assistants                     969            4772              5741
Total                         1370            6146              7516
aj One additional chief engineer,
hydropower, was appointed under NDD after August 1983.
i   The NDD has a total of 42 divisions (D) each headed by an executive
engineer under each of which there are usually five subdivisions (SD)
now totalling 210.



-40-
7.08    It is anticipated that significant changes in organizational units and
staffing of the NDD would be made over the SSP's entire implementation period
consistent with the buildup of activities under the respective chief engineers,
including the formation and expansion of new units such as those required for
centralized procurement, information management services, resettlement and
rehabilitation implementation and its evaluation and monitoring, and layout and
design of command area development blocks. GOG's estimate of techni-
cal/engineering staff anticipates a need for SSP of a peak total of about 230
senior level and 6,400 junior level engineers around 19b9. It is believed that
external recruitment needs can be filled, for the most part, from anticipated
graduates of state engineering institutions and supplemented, if necessary,
through external recruitment. Implementation would be supported by appointment
of com,and area development personnel, including senior and junior level
agricultural officers for which it is estimated that about 1,800 would be
required in the late 1990s. Comprehensive training will be required in connec-
tion with IDD recruitment and technical needs to be fulfilled partially by
training provisions outlined in paras 7.14-7.15 and training of Gujarat's
engineers provided through design and implcmentation of the Gujarat Medium
Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1496-IN).
7.09    Agreements have been reachea with GOG that it would maintain the Nar-
mada Development Department, headed by a qualified and experienced officer,
with such powers, functions, responsibilities, organization, staffing and funds
as needed to enable it to undertake its responsibilities for the overall
implementation and management of the SS1 including:
(a)  the O&h of the irrigation, municipal, industrial and domestic water
facilities under the project;
(b)  the O&N of the Sardar Sarovar dam and spillway, Garudeshwar weir,
Vadgam Saddle dam, the irrigation by-pass tunnel and the system of dams
and reservoirs and interlinking channels and related facilities located
between the CHPiJ and the main canal head regulator;
(c)  the supply and distribution of irrigation, municipal, industrial and
domestic water resulting from the SSP; and
(d)  through an appropriate agency to be established by December 31, 1988,
operate and maintain the hydroelectric power component of the SSP (see
SAR 5107-IN, Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project) and in accordance
with the NWDL decision, supply hydroelectric power to GOG, GOSSP and GOh
resulting from the implementation of the hydroelectric power component
of the SSP.
7.10    Narmada High Power Committee (NHPC).  This committee is responsible
for coordination and timely interaction between various GOG departments. Its
most important role, so far, has been to provide guidance on policy issues
related to the development. The NH?C is chaired by the Chief Minister and
includes the Niinisters of Finance, Irrigation, Power, and Agriculture among
its members.
7.11    Narmada Planning Group (NPG).  The group (para 2.03) reports directly
to the NHPC and is responsible for the major planning studies and for con-
tinuous coordination of the activities of the implementing agencies. The NPG
is chaired by the Irrigation Minister and has both part-time and full-time



-41-
members. The NPG has extensively and successfully used local consulting firms
for planning studies. The group continues to follow a work plan of studies and
investigations that have been agreed upon with the Bank. A priority listing of
work plan items as they relate to the water delivery and drainage project is
presented in table 1. In addition to its other responsibilities, the NPG has
been assigned the responsibility for studying and developing the proposed SSP
operation and maintenance plan (para 7.22).
7.12    Agreements have been reached with GOG that it would maintain the fol-
lowing agencies with the powers, functions, responsibilities, membership,
staffing, organization and funds required to enable it to adequately undertake
its responsibilities:
(a) The NHPC for the coordination and timely interaction among the various
departments and agencies of the GOG responsible for carrying out the
project; and
(b) The NPG for carrying out planning studies of the Narmaaa River Develop-
ment program including those required to develop a plan for the opera-
tion and maintenance of the hydroelectric power and water delivery and
drainage facilities under the SSP.
7.13    Other Guiarat Agencies.  Because of the magnitude of the project and
its statewide importance, a number of other GOG departmental agencies have been
and would continue to be involved in planning and implementing the project.
These include the departments of Finance, Agriculture, Forestry, Public Works,
Transportation, Communications, the Water Supply and Sewerage Board, and the
State Electricity Board.
Trainingt
7.14    To facilitate quick absorption of large numbers of new staff and to
meet specific project objectives, a training program would be undertaken. An
important objective would be to acquaint the project engineers at all levels
with the project concepts and policies, through one or two week courses that
would be designed for that purpose.  The recent establishment in Abmeaabad of
the Water and Land Management Institnite (WALkI) would enhance staff training.
7.15    Agreement has been reached with GOG that it would by June 30, 1985,
furnish to the Bank for its approval a suitable training program including the
respective syllabi, schedules and estimated funds and thereafter carry out such
programs covering:
(a) environmental sciences and related mitigation measures;
(b) block development of minor irrigation and drainage network including
field surveys, layouts, designs, estimates, and relatea activities;
(c) project operation and maintenance including computer based centrali-
zed data information systems and communications and remote control
O&M systems; and
(d)  establishment of a permanent O&  training facility
including construction of the required buildings and provision of
training equipment.



-42-
These training initiatives would be supported by a credit allocation of
US$550,000 over the project s 3-year implementation period in accordance with
estimated distribution of costs given in table 13. Following approval, in each
instance by GOI and the Bank, the project training component would finance
costs of expatriate fees, expenses, and travel, to India and instruction,
travel, and expenses of technical, scientific, and administrative project
personnel at home and abroad and assist in acquiring up to date training equip-
ment such as audiovisual or other special equipment required to accomplish
specific training tasks and to initiate operation of the proposed O&M training
facility. Details are provided below:
(a) Environment. Training in environmental science would be required under
the following headings: jj
(i) specialist environmental training for young project staff;
(ii) refresher courses for experienced specialists to address project
implementation needs in the environment field; and
(iii) seminar to share intra and interstate experiences on the environ-
mental effects of large reservoir and irrigation projects.
(b) Block Development of Minor Networks. Expanded training would be con-
ducted as a separate program related to concurrent requirements of
Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project implementation (para 3.25) and/or
an extension of the WALMI program tailored specifically to the SSP.
Objectives would be the development and application of skills in
designing and constructing minor irrigation and drainage systems within
the proposed development blocks (paras 2.08 & 5.02(i)). Methodologies
and procedures initiated under the Gujarat (Medium) Irrigation Project,
Cr. 8O0-IN (e.g., Sansoli distributary in Panam subproject) would be
supplenented and improved to facilitate large scale application
expected in the SSP. The magnitude of this training represents a
formidable task but is critical to the implementation of SSP. It
should support the creation of the three design circles required for
implementation (table 2) and should incorporate experience gained and
talent developed among ID engineers, scientists, and technicians during
the preparation and implementation of the Gujarat Medium Irrigation II
Project.
(c)  OReration and Maintenance.  A small permanent O&M training facility
preferably located in O&M Region 1 (see figure 4) would be established
early during project construction. Its primary functions would be:
(i) staff orientation and training for initial O&M assignments and
farmer representative training by the Agricultural Department in a
unit established specifically for that purpose;
11 Environmental training for the Water Delivery and Drainage Project would be
co-ordinated with similar training funded with the Sardar Sarovar Dan and
Power Project (SAR No. 5107-IN).



-43-
(ii) instruction in operations of project facilities, techniques of
maintenance and construction, administrative and fiscal matters,
farmer relations, and personnel management;
(iii) training in on farm water management, crop water requirements,
crop irrigation, ana exposure to other agricultural background
subjects; and
(iv) courses to upgrade special technical and managerial skills.
The training facility would be established and staffed during the first
three years of construction in accordance with plans derived by NPG.
This activity must also be coordinated with the O&M training needs of
the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project (see SAR No. 5107-IN4).
Technical Assistance
7.16    GOG has recognizea the need to use local and/or foreign consultants for
the project's special design and construction problems especially as they
relate to the unusually large and complex main canal and major branch canals of
the SSP. Thus, at appraisal, the NDD had already contacted consultants and
experts concerning the possibility of forming a Consultancy Board which would
independently review project designs, construction and operation plans includ-
ing the main canal and its earthwork, lining and major in-line and
cross-drainage structures and to recommend modifications as required. However,
due to the unusual magnitude, complexity and highly specialized nature of the
entire water delivery, drainage and conjunctive use (groundwater supply) sys-
tems needea for efficient and beneficial utilization of the project's water
resources, it would be essential that GOG further widen its access to and
utilization of foreign and local consultants by specifying such consultancies
and formalizing arrangements for their retention. Such input would be required
in addition to existing and predicted future capabilities ot the NDD. Addi-
tional technical assistance would be required for the:
(a) overall design and construction and installation of quality
control systems including centralized data and information systems
based on computer reporting, management and monitoring sub-systems;
(b) planning and designing of a system for the operation and maintenance
of the water delivery and drainage components of the SSP including
plans and studies needed for annual, seasonal and daily operations
and technical evaluations needed to support design requirements such
as canal transient (wave movements) and emergency operating
conditions; and
(c) selection, design and installation of the communication and the
centralized computer-based remote control systems for the operation
and maintenance of the water delivery and drainage components of the
SSPI.
Therefore, it would be essential to formally establish and maintain a Consult-
ancy Board to provide periodic reviews of the above technical aspects and
identify potential problens requiring changes, e.g., engineering design, con-
struction, quality control and related matters. Thereafter the Board would
make recommendations to project authorities or to proposed changes as well as



-44-
assist the NDD in the identification and selection of appropriate experts and
consultants for the performance of specific technical tasks. Thus, NDD would
establish and maintain a list of consultants and/or experts covering a wide
range of disciplines upon whom they could call in an expeditious manner for
assistance in solving technical problems that may arise throughout project
implementation.
7.17    The technical assistance requirements described in para 7.16 would be
supported by an allocation of US$850,000 within the proposed IDA credit over
the 3-year implementation period in accordance with the estimated distribution
of costs given in table 14.  The technical assistance allocation would finance
the Consultancy Board meetings and the hiring of individual experts including
costs of foreign and local expert fees, travel and related expenses outside
and/or within India in the accomplishment of their assigned duties. Local
consultants would be used when and as available. However, it is estimated that
the required level of technical assistance would include about 75 man-months of
assistance costing, with inflation over the implementation period, an average
of US$11,300 per man month. The identification of technical assistance tasks
and assignment of specific duties (terms of reference) would be the respon-
sibility of GOG with possible assistance of the Consultancy Board as described
in para 7.16.
7.18    Agreements have therefore been reached with GOG that it would:
(a) by April 1, 1985, establish and thereafter maintain a Gonsultancy Board
with functions and responsibilities required to enable it to assist GOG
in reviewing technical designs, criteria and standards of the project;
(b) employ consultants and/or experts with qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank and on the
basis of the Bank's August 1981 "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency; and
Cc) by April 1, 1985, propose and furnish to the Bank for its approval,
a list of consultants and/or experts in the following areas, inter
alia, concrete mixing, handling and placement; gates and hoists;
hydraulic transients; communication systems; sensing, control and
processor designs for canals; canal operation and maintenance and
electrical and hydraulic machinery.
The above consultancy services would be providea under the project's financial
allocation for technical assistance.
Centralized Procurement Unit (CPU)
7.19    To perform the procurement task necessary for implementation, the NDD
has taken steps to centralize procurement responsibilities in one organization
that would be responsible for the procurement or all goods, works, and services
for the entire scheme and would report directly to the Additional Chief
Secretary, NDD. The National Thermal Power Corporation's procurement organiza-
tion has been selected as a model. The organization would maintain the finan-
cial, commercial, legal, and engineering talents needed to manage procurement
activities and would, in coordination with the engineering units of the
project, determine the source, arrive at a price, and prepare the contracts for
all works, goods, and services. An agreement has been reached with GOG that it



-45-
would maintain within the NDD the CPU, headed by a qualified and experienced
officer, with such powers, functions, responsibilities, staffing, organization
and funds as would be required to undertake the procurement of all goods and
services required for the implementation of the SSP.
Evaluation and Monitoring
7.20    In order to provide monitoring control and planning capabilities to
manage the SSP, the NDD has taken steps to establish a Management Information
Systems Cell (MISC) with adequate computer facilities. The MISC would produce
data to control, plan, monitor, and forecast financial, material, and staff
requirements for implementation. The MISC would also be responsible for
preparation of progress reports. There is no Indian model to use as a guide in
establishing the MISC. Therefore, GUG is using consultants to define the
organization and to specify equipment and staff. Tata Consultancy Services,
Bombay has been commissioned to design and implement the MISC and work began in
October 1983. An agreement has been reached with GOG that it would by becember
31, 1985, establish and thereafter maintain, witbin the NDD, a MISC to be
headed by a qualified and experienced officer, with such powers, functions,
responsibilities, staffing, organization and funds as would be required for
monitoring and evaluation of the various activities under the SSP.
7.21    RenortinR.  Agreement has been reached with GOG that it would furnish
to the Bank, semi-annual and annual reports, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress of the project within
three months after the end of each reporting period. The progress reports
would among other aspects:
(a) record planned and actual accomplishments in physical and financial
terms;
(b)  describe deviations from planned activities; and
(c) provide future implementation schedules updated as required.
Agreement also has been reached with GOG that it would furnish to the Bank
within six months after the project closing date, a report of such scope and
level of detail as may be reasonably be requested by the Bank regaraing the
project's execution and initial operations, and cost, expenditures and benefits
to be derived.
Proiect OReration and Maintenance
7.22 The NDD would become the operation and maintenance (OEM) organization
responsible for operation and maintenance of the SSP following implementation.
Thus, it would be necessary for the NDD to shift its emphasis from construction
to operation and maintenance in step with the completion of the project works.
The mechanism for this change over time and the operation and maintenance
organization to follow would need to be defined, agreed and put into service in
a timely manner. The SSP's conveyance, distribution and drainage design prin-
cipals and concepts, multipurpose water allocation criteria, services to
farmers, operation concepts, the O&M organization formulation including scope
and responsibilities, and O&6 facilities requirements are described in para
3.01 through 3.25. The overall structure of SSP's O&M organization is shown in
figure 2. Other detailed requirements of the 0Mh organization structure are



-46-
described in pares 3.20 and 3.21 (see figures 3-6). The full organization with
requisite responsibilities and staff is not as yet fixed iuasmuch as it is
likely that its administrative and organizational requirements would change
over time prior to the establishment of a permanent O&M organization. The
magnitude and capabilities of the final O&h organization would need to be
planned as thoroughly in scope and details as the organization and staff arran-
gements taken by NDD during the project's planning, design and implementation
stages. Accordingly, GOG/NDD has assigned responsibility for O&M planning to
NPG. Initially, the NPG would analyze and prepare plans and requirements of
the proposed permanent O&n training facility in accordance with para 7.14(c).
Then it would be expected to review the detailed organization, facilities,
equipment, and staffing needs for initial and full development stages of the
SSP and to recommend permanent arrangements. It would prepare detailed manuals
to guide the operation of specific structures, facilities, and O&H equipment
and would define functional and staff responsibilities, including the proposed
integration and interfacing of the power and irrigation and M&I water supply
units (and/or subunits) of the NDD appropriate for final operation of the SSP.
It is likely that those responsible for the O&M planning within NPG would
ideally form the nucleus of the SSP's O&1 organization at full development.
A detailed plan of operation and maintenance for the SSP would include the
identification of an agency or unit for the operation and maintenance of the
SSP's power components and specification of all responsibilities and arrange-
ments required in the sharing of power between the governments of Gujarat, hP
and Maharashtra (see SAR 5017-IN, para 6.21-6.25). It would also identify
administrative, organizational and statf responsibilities for O&M of the Sardar
Sarovar Dam and Reservoir storage complex (SAR 5017-IN). Thus, agreements have
been reached with GOG that it would:
(a) by December 31, 1987, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its approval,
an operation and maintenance plan including provision of fuanas and
staff required for the irrigation and drainage systems under the SSP
and thereafter, adopt and implement thq approved plan;
(b) during project implementation and operation, efficiently maintain the
project's water distribution systems as well as efficiently operate,
repair and replace any vehicles and equipment under the project in
accordance with sound engineering and financial practices; and
(c) commencing on April 1, 1989, establish and thereafter maintain a system
of separate accounts within the NDD for purposes of recording:
(i) operation and maintenance costs of the water delivery and drainage
project components of the SSk; and
(ii) the water charges collected in accordance witb the agreement in
paras 8.14 and 8.15 and any additional funding to be provided from
time to time to accomplish its purpose.
Support inx Services
7.23    The AMricultural Department (AD). The AD would be responsible for
extension work in the project areas, for training of block leaders, and opera-
tion of a farmer's training unit within the O&M training facility to be estab-
lished under the project by NDD (para 7.15).



-47-
7.24    A2ricultural Extension.  The IDA assisted "Training and Visit' (T&V)
system of agricultural extension was introduced in Gujarat in 1979 under the
Composite Agricultural Extensin Project (Credit No. 862-IN).  Under this
project, regular demonstrations and up to date advice on farming practices were
provided to the farmers through regular visits from trained village extension
workers (VEWs). The T&V system calls for reorganization of the etension staff
to work exclusively on extension in a single line of command under the district
agricultural officer or the Department of Agricultural and provides for
facilities and equipment to support extension and training programs. It also
provides for increased staff to provide aaequate field coverage aiming at one
VEW serving a group of about 500-800 farm families. The progress wiLh the
extension project has generally been satisfactory. However, a number of sub-
ject matter specialist (SXS) and VEW posts have not been filled. As the
proposed project is expected to benefit from improved extension services
provided through the T&V system, the sanctioned staff posts should be filled
without delay. GOG would be expected to fill the SMS and VEW vacancies in the
project areas by December 31, 1984 according to an agreement under Gujarat
Medium Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1496-1h) to provide adequate extension in the
project area. Furthermore, a second phase extension project in Gujarat which
aims at further broadening and deepening agricultural extension activities is
under preparation.
7.25    ARricultural Research.  The Gujarat Agricultural University CGAU) is
responsible for all agricultural research activities through its four campuses
at Anand, Dantivada, Junagadh, and Navsari, representing four broaa
agroclimatic zones of the state. Research facilities of GAU have been
strengthened under the National Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 855-Ih).
GAU maintains 13 research stations specializing in different crops. Their work
involves, among others, selection and testing of superior varieties, improved
cultural practices, and plant protection. Each campus conducts
locality-specific research to meet the needs of the farmers in the area and
coordinates the research activities of these stations. Research findings are
rested through a network of 38 substations throughout the state before dissemi-
nation to the farmers. Technical breakthroughs achieved by GAU in pearl mil-
let, cotton, and castor, in particular, have helpea to improve the productivity
of these crops in the state and other parts of the country. GAD has released
77 improved varieties of different crops having better yield potential, and
quality characteristics.
7.26    Research on irrigated agriculture is carried out on 16
trial-cum-demonstration farms. The main focus of this research has been to
determine water requirements in relation to soil types, climate, and critical
stages of crop growth.  So far, little attention has been given to irrigation
practices.
7.27    Atricultural Credit.  The agricultural credit system in Gujarat follows
normal pattern of India. The cooperative banks, which provide short and medium
term credit to the fteruers are organized on a three tier basis with the Gujarat
State Cooperative Bank at the state level, 18 central cooperative banks at the
district level, and 6,800 primary cooperative credit societies at the village
level. They charge an interest rate of 12% a year. There are about 1.9 M
members of the cooperatives, of which about 0.7 M are borrowing members. The
State Land Development Bank (SLDB), with its 182 branches, provides long-term
loans at an interest rate of about 11%. The statewide recovery performance of
the primary credit societies was 52% in 1981 and SLDB was 45% in 1983, The



-48-
Commercial banks provide all three types of credit. They now account for about
40% of institutional credit for agriculture.
7.28    Agricultural Inputs.  Gujarat has a well developed system for distribu-
tion and sale of seeds, fertilizers, and plant protection chemicals throughout
the state. The Gujarat State Seeds Corporation and the Gujarat State Coopera-
tive MArketing Federation (G6CMF) are two agencies engaged in production and
distribution of improved seeds. The quality of seed is controlled by the
Gujarat State Seeds Certification Agency. There are four fertilizer corpanies
in Gujarat, whose production in 1980-1981 amounted to about 650,000 tons of
nitrogen and phosphate. Fertilizers are distributed largely through the
cooperative network. GSCMF handles about 70% of fertilizer sales. The remain-
ing are distributed by the fertilizer manufacturers themselves at their local
sale depots and by the Gujarat Agro-Industries Corporation through their
agrocenters. Out of about 6,000 distributors, over 80Z are cooperative units.
There are about 9,600 agro-chemical sale centers in the state, mostly in the
rural areas. About one third of these centers are operated through cooperative
units. About 7,000 tons of chemicals are being sold to the farmers annmally.
7.29    Marketinzg. Processing. and Storage.  Some 422 agricultural markets
operate in Gujarat, of which 141 are regulated. As Gujarat has about half of
its cultivated area under cash crops like oilseeds, cotton, tobacco, etc., most
of these crops are traded through regulated markets serving a specific area,
usually within a 10-km radius. There are about 114,000 licensees, of which
about 111,000 are traders and the rest cooperative societies. The traders
operate inside the service areas of the regulated markets. Through the
well-developed marketing system, the farmers get reasonable produce rates.
Gujarat has a large number of processing facilities mainly for commercial
crops. There are over 800 private oil extraction units and 17 oil mills owned
by cooperatives. There are 970 ginneries, 200 cotton presses, and over 1,300
textile units in the state that process lint into yarn, employing about 0.25 M
workers. There are nearly 6,100 storage facilities operated by primary
cooperatives providing a capacity of about 860,000 tons. The Gujarat State
Warehousing Corporation maintains 74 storage centers in the state having a
storage capacity of about 220,000 tons. The present highly competitive system
for marketing, processing, and storage has responded quickly to increased
output of both fooagrains and cash crops.



-49-
VIII. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. FARM INCOMES. AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Production
8.01    The SSP is expected to reach full agricultural development after some
25 years. It is obviously difficult to predict the pattern and yield level
of crops to emerge under irrigation after so many years. An assessment of
the likely outcome must be based on experience with past and present
irrigated agriculture in Gujarat and on the limits Fet by the available
irrigation water. Water available from all projected sources (public and
private) determine, in conjunction with likely efficiencies, average plant
water requirements and with the given net CCA, the extent of gross irrigated
areas. The irrigation intensity can thus be expected to be around 116% of
the net area. Another 30Z of the area would be occupied by rainfed crops
(mainly traditional foodgrains).
8.02    Future CroyDing Patterns.  The cropping pattern assumed for the SSP
at full development cannot be more than an indication of the range of crops
and their relative proportions at full development. Studies have been con-
ducted by NPG to estimate regional patterns for each of the 13 regions of the
command, taking into account projected yields, cost of cultivation, farmers
acreage response to relative prices and irrigation water availability, the
results from a regional water allocation model, and other factors. The
resulting patterns are conservative, in the sense that they do not project a
major shift to non-food cash crops as may well come about during the SSP
development period. jj NPG's cropping pattern have therefore been modified
for appraisal of the SSk. In particular, the mix and proportion of irrigated
crops in the total cropping intensity has been set to be consistent with
projected water availability from all sources and irrigation efficiencies.
The proportion of remaining rainfed crops was estimated by assumin% that one
additional hectare irrigated would replace 0.65 ha of rainfed crops. Total
cropping intensity comes thus to about 137%. J Average cropping patterns
projected for the entire SS are given in table 20. Regional cropping pat-
terns and water requirements are given in SDV, annex 10.
ij Given India's widely accepted need for diversified crop production, the
recently re-stated policy of increased focus on high-value crops, par-
ticularly uoi seed, to help meet the large vegetable oil deficits, the
high level of irrigation service to be provided by the SSP, and the
likelihood of svbstantial supplementation of public supply by private
groundwater, the NPG s cropping patterns are considered to be very con-
servative.
This figure does not reflect the large share of two-seasonal and peren-
nial crops. Counting these crops twice or three times, respectively,
would give a cropping intensity of roughly 175%.



-50-
8.03    Crop Yields and Cost of Cultivation.  Crop yields for a repre-
sentative number of crops presently grown under irrigation in Gujarat have
been projected on the basis of the following:
(a) present achievements by progressive farmers under reliable and
flexible sources of irrigation;
(b) yields achieved in trial-cum-demonstration farms; and
(c) expert judgement about yield levels which may be achieved on a
broader basis by the average farmer some ten to fifteen years from
now, given the high quality of service under the proposed SSP.
They do not reflect the possibility of a major breakthrough in agricultural
technology which may raise the yield potential of some irrigated crops
dramatically over the next decades. It is likely that the future value of
production may exceed projections, while it is not very likely that it would
fall short thereof. Input requirements for various crops are based on sample
surveys in Gujarat, adjusted for adopted crop yields. Yield and agricultural
input assumptions are tabulated in SDV, annex 10.
8.04    Future Without Project.  While the projection of future crop pat-
terns, yields, etc., under the SSP is subject to considerable uncertainties,
this is no less so for the future without project. The erratic behavior of
yields and production in drought prone Gujarat makes it difficult to discern
an underlying trend (see figures 10 to 12 for graphs of area, yield and
production indices in Gujarat from 1968 to 1981). Statistical analysis
suggests a linear trend resulting in about a 44X yield increase over a 20
year period, and no trend at all in cropped area. The main contributing
factors, increase in irrigation and adoption of hybrid and high yielding
varieties (HYVs), are not expected to continue at the same pace in the
future. Adoption of HYVs for most crops appears to have reached a saturation
level, and where further adoption can be expected, it would be linked to
availability of irrigation. In the SSP command, aaditional irrigation would
mostly come from private groundwater development, and the prospects for such
development are limited by quantity and quality of the recoverable recharge
from rainfall in most regions, as well as by size and fragmentation of hold-
ings. For the present analysis, an increase in yields of 20% over 20 years
has been assumed (25Z for input cost). Present cropping patterns by
agro-climatic regions are based on detailed statistics for the talukas (sub-
divisions of districts) covered by the SSP command area. i/ It is estimated
that at present some 13% of the command area is irrigated, virtually all by
private groundwater. No significant changes in the cropping pattern and
intensity were assumed, apart from an increase in groundwater development by
about 50Z or to the estimated limits of exploitation in a region, if less
./ The latest information available for most talukas were for the years 1977
and 1978, but for talukas in the first-phase area (up to lahi River),
data for 1980 and 1981 were used. Areas served by existing major surface
irrigation schemes were excluded.



-51-
(average 28%). The irrigation intensity was assumed to increase to some 16%
in the future without project over a period of 20 years, while the cropping
intensity would remain the same at 1U5%, as past performance would suggest.
Present and future regional cropping patterns without project, yields and
inputs are given in SDV, annex 10. The present average crop pattern for the
SSP command is shown in table 21.
8.05    Incremental Production.  The resulting crop production estimates, by
volume and by value, for present, future without, and future with project,
are given in table 22. Overall, value of production is projected to grow
within 25 years by some 370% over present levels, or by 270% over future
levels without project. Production in the state of Gujarat, as a whole, may
exceed future levels without SSP by almost 40% as a result of the project.
About 65% of the incremental value of production would come trom cash crops,
although foodgrain production (mainly rice and wheat) would increase at a
somewhat faster rate (+310%) than cash crops (+260%). Among the cash crops,
oilseeds, cotton, and vegetables (including potato) figure most importantly
in terms of production value (75% of total), followea by fruits, fodder,
tobacco, and other crops such as condiments and spices. Most of the growth
in production value would result from the shift from rainfed to irrigated
crops, and only to a lesser extent from projected yield increases over
present irrigated yields.
Market Prospects
8.06    The projected increase of foodgrain production of some 2.5 M tons,
amounting to some 45-50% of Gujarat's present proauction, would be taken up
by the growing demand without difficulty, given the expected growth of
population and income. Gujarat may still be a net foodgrain importer even
with this increase in production. Most of the aaditional foodgrains would be
cereals such as rice and wheat, which are preferred with growing levels of
income. Oilseeds (groundnut and mustard mainly) are a chronically scarce
commodity in India and can be expected to remain so for some time to come.
India is importing vast quantities of edible oils every year, and the project
output would substitute for these imports. Production of fruits and
vegetables, while not properly recorded in the agricultural statistics, is
estimated to have increased between 5% and 10% each year in the recent past,
driven not only by a growing demand from Gujarat's large urban sector, but
also by exports. Grower cooperatives ha-ve been set up in many parts of the
state for fruit processing and marketi=;. Potato is seen as one of the most
lucrative crops to be grown under irrigation, limited mainly by the
availability of cold storage facilities. The potential for fruits and
vegetables in Gujarat is seen as excellent.
8.07    Gujarat is, with Maharashtra, Punjab, and Haryana, a major producer
of cotton in India. Its climate and soils are well suited for this crop.
Total production in the state is presently about 1.2 M tons of seed cotton,
some 0.4 M tons of which is grown in the SSP command.  Incremental proauction
from the project over present levels is estimatea at around 0.66 X tons, but
on a reduced area (31% of net CCA instead of 37%). Based on observed trends
in Gujarat, farmers would switch to longer staple varieties under irrigation;
production of short staple varieties would be restricted to remaining rainfed



-52-
areas and would actually fall. Demand and supply projections for 1991 1/
suggest a total demand for Indian cotton lint varying between 1.3 M and 1.7 X
tons, according to different assumptions, which are equivalent to an increase
of 0.2 M to 0.4 M tons over the levels in 1979/80.  The project would con-
tribute about 0.21 N tons of cotton lint after the year 2000. Part of this
new supply would certainly be absorbed by the domestic market, but a major
part is likely to be exported, given the higher fiber quality and staple
length that is less preferred domestically. Cotton lint is presently subject
to an export tax and to quantitative export restrictions. In the case of
surplus production and falling domestic prices, lifting of the export bar-
riers is not an unlikely scenario. World market prices for cotton lint are
higher than domestic prices and are expected to rise, in real terms, by about
1OX by 1995. A disincentive due to depressed cotton prices or lack of
markets is thus not anticipated.
Farm Incomes
8.08    The project impact on rural income levels would be substantial.  Farm
incomes (in 1984 financial farmgate prices) have been estimated for the 13
regions of the SSP command, on a per-hectare basis and assuming average farm
sizes, for the present, future without and future with project (see
table 23). There would, of course, be a wide variability among different
farm sizes, farm locations, etc. Average farm income from crop production
would increase by about 380X over the assumed future without project situa-
tion.  If hired labor income is included, and if the expected population
growth is taken into account, per capita income in rural areas from crop
production alone may increase by some 146% over levels without the project,
from about Rs 650 at present to Rs 1,600 in the year 2020.
Cost Recovery
8.09    Irrigation Water Charges.  Water charges in Gujarat are among the
highest in India. They are uniform throughout the state and vary by crop and
season and currently range from Rs 120 per irrigated ha of paddy in the
kharif season, to Rs 1,250/ha of sugarcane. For the projected cropping
patterns, the average water charge under these rates would be about Rs
280-330/ha of net CCA. The level of charges is determined with consideration
to the investment and operational costs, and the repayment capacity of the
farmers. With respect to the latter, GOG considers 5% to 12% of the gross
value of produce per ha as the target level of charges (the lower percentage
is for food crops and the higher for cash crops). A standing Interdepartmen-
tal Water Rates Review Board (IWRB) was constituted in 1976 to review the
rate structure and make recommendations to GOG. The IWRB conducts such
reviews every two years. In recent years water charges were increased twice
in 1981 and 1983. The percentage increase ranged from 13% (paddy) to 337%
(cotton). It would be desirable that in the future water charges be reviewed
annually. The recovery of water charges is generally satisfactory.
1_/ Jon A. Hitchings, "The Economics of Cotton Cultivation in India with
Projections of Supply and Demand," World Bank Staff Working Paper no.
618, 1984.



-53-
8.10    Other Agricultural Taxes.  The rate of direct agricultural taxation
is relatively modest. Land revenue tax and associated cesses vary with the
district and the quality of the land. On the average, farmers pay between
10-25 Rs/ha of dryland of medium soil quality and caouble that amount for
irrigated land. Indirect agricultural taxes, especially sales taxes, are
more important from a revenue viewpoint. Sales tax is leviea at a rate of
4.4% for cash crops such as cotton and oilseeds, and a sugarcane purchase tax
at 6.6%.
8.11    Irrigation Cost Recovery Prospects.  GOG is anxious to maximize cost
recovery from irrigation projects and is ready to experiment with alternative
methods of charging for irrigation services such as volumetric charges and
selling water to water user associations. There is a general agreement in
Gujarat that farmers would be willing to pay more for better irrigation
services. This is demonstrated in areas irrigated from public tubewells,
where farmers pay volumetric water charges that are three to four times
higher than in surface irrigation projects. Given the high standard of
services expected in the SS2, and the reliability and equity of water supply,
GOG should be able to recover, both directly (through water charges) and
indirectly (taxes), the entire cost of O&K and a share of the capital costs.
8.12    By the time irrigation in SSI begins (1991), there will be a con-
siderable improvement in the state of knowledge of how to charge for irriga-
tion water in order to optimize recovery, and especially the possible use of
water user organizations as instruments for improved cost recovery. This
will be largely a result of various studies and of experience to be gained
under the Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project (para 3.25), where conditions
would be similar to those anticipated in SSP. Thus, the success of efforts
to improve cost recovery are closely linked to the desired improvement over
historic means of water management. When rotational water delivery systems
are introduced successfully and water supplies are made more reliable and
enuitable, GOG would be able to recover a substantial share (para 8.13) of
the project's incremental benefits. However, in order to recover a fair
share of irrigation benefits through higher water water charges both costs
and benefits per irrigated hectare must be considerably higher than in tradi-
tionally designed irrigation projects.
8.13    The NDD would sell the water to the farmers on a volumetric basis.
The NDD would use these funds to cover O&h costs and repayment of capital
costs. A decision on the method and level of irrigation water charges in the
project area would be deferred to a later stage (beyond the project time
slice). In accordance with the project 0&M agreements cited in para 7.22(c),
NDD will be required, by April 1, 199, to commence a system of separate
accounts for the purposes of recording 0&1 costs of the water delivery and
drainage facilities and of the water charges collected for repayment of costs
of the project as described below and in para 8.14.  Agreement has been
reached with GOG that it would by September 30, 1987, prepare and furnish to
the Bank, for its review and comments, a study to determine the level of
irrigation water charges in the SSI coumand area required to recover full
operation and maintenance costs, and a reasonable portion or the capital
costs and, thereafter, implement the study results taking into account the



-54-
Bank's comments, if any, by establishing and thereafter maintaining the
irrigation water charges for the delivery area of the SSF at levels requirea
to cover full operation and maintenance costs, and a reasonable portion of
the capital costs. Also, farmer's capacity to pay, may be taken into account
when setting the level of water charges.
8.14    M&I Water Charges.  Allocation of Narmada River Waters by NWDT
included provision for about 1300 klm3 annually for municipal and industrial
use in Gujarat State. Users of such supply would include domestic,
industrial (including cooling water for thermal power plants) and
rural-domestic entities and/or individuals (see para 9.04) all with varying
payment capacities. Therefore, agreement has been reached with GOG. that it
would establish and thereafter maintain the municipal, domestic and
industrial water charges in those areas served by the $SP at such levels as
would be required, on average, to cover full operation, maintenance and
capital costs.
8.15    Estimated Cost and Rent Recovery.  In estimating the level of cost
and rent recoveries, it has been assumed that GOG would maintain indirect
taxation at present levels and water charges at 5% and 12% of the gross value
of production per ha of food and cash crops, respectively. With the
projected crop area irrigated from public water sources, an average water
charge of some Rs 680/ha at today's prices could be expected at full develop-
ment, and in addition an incremental revenue from sales tax of some Rs
160/ha. Annual recoverable capital cost would be about Rs 2000/ha for
irrigation infrastructure (amortization over 50 years at 12% discount rate,
starting in l990/91), and O&M cost would be about Rs 460 per ha including
conjunctive use, drainage, and canal pumping. Average project rent would be
about RP 4600/ha (incremental land rent, see table 24). Based on these
assumptions the rent recovery index would be about lb%, and the cost recovery
index approximately 34Z. 0&M cost would be exceeded by almost 50% by the
assumed annual water charge at full development.



-55-
IX. BENEFITS. RISK. AND JUSTIFICATION jj
General
9.01    The project to be financed under the proposed credit would be an
integral part of the larger SSP in Gujarat. The SSP serves three functioDs;
irrigation, M&I water supply, and power generation. The assessment of
benefits, costs, and risk covers the SSP in its entirety, V since all func-
tions are interdependent through the common resource, the Narmada River, and
through their joint reliance on the Sardar Sarovar Reservoir.
Agricultural Benefits
9.02    Incremental agriculture production and income have been discussed
in the previous chapter. lhe rural population of the SSP comuand area is
estimated at about 4.5 h (in 1981). Projections of population growth suggest
a rural population of 8.3 X in the year 2021, and an urban population growing
from some 3.9 h (inclel-ing Ahmedabad city) to 9.9 X in the same period.
About 78Z of the rural working population are engaged in agricultural
activities, in about equal parts as either cultivators (0.60 M) or agricul-
tural laborers (0.59 M). The number of households is estimated at about
340,000, of which some 45% are cultivator households, and 36% are agricul-
tural laborer households. Some 96% of the holdings are fully owned by the
cultivators. Population growth will necessarily increase the number of
households and of holdings, thereby diminishing the average farm size. The
proportion of landless laborers in the rural population will increase con-
siderably. Average annual per capita expenditure for rural households was
estimated in a sample survey in 1982 as Rs 1,280 a year. ji/ Cultivator
households spent on average Rs 1,450 per capita a year; whereas, agricultural
laborer households spent only Rs 985. The official rural poverty line in
1982 was Rs 1,030 ZJ per capita. Some 28% of the cultivator households in
tthe survey fell below this line in terms of expenditures, as against 64X of
the agricultural labor households. Overall, some 40% of all rural households
would be classified as poor, when using reported expenditures as indicator.
This percentage is expected to diminish under the SSP, even with the
anticipated growth of rural population, although it is difficult to predict
to what extent, given the demographic changes and intricate shifts in income
distribution.
9.03    More intensive cultivation of the project agricultural area is
estimated to provide, by the time of full development, the equivalent of some
0.7 M man-years cf full farm employment. Host of the incremental employment
would benefit landless laborers. Given the population growth in the project
area of some 80% over 40 years, the project may not fully absorb the acdi-
tional workforce in agricultural activities, although secondary employment
effects may well help to accommodate the balance in other sectors of the
jj  This chapter is essentially identical to chapter VIII in SAR No. 5107-IN.
./ This includes dam and reservoir, all power facilities, all irrigation
works, command area development, public and private groundwater develop-
ment, and tentative projections for Rajasthan's cost and benefits from
Narmada water. The flood warning system is excluded.
2J At the then prevailing exchange rate of Rs 9.28/US$1.



-56-
economy. Apart from permanent employment generation in agriculture, the
project would provide, on average, some 125,000 seasonal jobs annually during
the construction period of the project, extending over some 22 years.
Benefits from M&I Water Supply
9.04    Projections of future water demand and supply for urban centers,
villages and industries reveal a substantial deficit of M&I water due to
scarcity and unsuitable quality. The study area for these projections
includes towns and villages within the SSP command, in adjacent areas, and in
particularly critical areas of Saurashtra peninsula and Kutch not contiguous
to the SSP command. Part of the deficit in urban centers can be met by
ongoing and planned water supply schemes. Villages that have some form of
local source have been excluded from deficit estimation. The balance of
villages would have absolutely no sources to satisfy the growing demand of
the future. Consequently, the remainder of the deficit is planned to be
provided from Narmada water, either directly through the canals of the SSP or
indirectly by pumping from the SSP induced recharge to groundwater. In
summary, the annual volumes of M&I water to be provided, the number of
benefiting urban centers and villages and their respective projected popula-
tion are as follows:
Urban     Rural       Total
Supply of SSP surface water (Mm3)            1115 /a    195         1310 /b
Supply of grouNdwater from SSP-induced
recharge (Mm )                               79        .99         178
Number of urban centers/villages              131       4720          -
Population projected in year 2021 (M)        18.6       10.8        29.4
/a  Including supply to industries and thermal power plants and supply to the
city of Ahmedabad.
/b At canalhead.
9.05    While it is difficult to attach an economic or social value to the
M&I water to be supplied, it is possible to evaluate the approximate cost of
alternative projects (where feasible) to supply similar amounts of water at
urban and rural distribution points and to compare it to additional invest-
ments to make SSP water available at these points. The difference in the
annualized economic cost per unit of water has been used to estimate net
benefits from this function of SSP, lacking an indication of consumers
"willingness to pay." M&I water would be made available only gradually over
a period of about 40 years, starting with the more straightforward schemes
within the command area. Since the cost of alternative water supply schemes
in the absence of SSP would rise considerably over time as more difficult and
costly schemes would have to be implemented, the economic value of each
additional block of M&I water would also increase over time. The ultimate
alternative considered for some ruril areas would be supply by tank truck,
estimated to cost about Rs 10 per m . The averag   annualized cost saving,
after 35-40 years, amounts to about Rs 2.50 per m at the distribution point.
However, neither the indirect effects of basic water supply and of improved



-57-
water quality on health, standard of living and labor productivity, nor the
additional benefit of using treated effluents directly or indirectly (through
recharge of groundwater) for irrigation could be adequately quantified for
inclusion in the economic analysis.
Benefits from Power Generation
9.06    Riverbed Powerhouse.  The RBPH would generate the bulk of power at
Sardar Sarovar Dam. Its function would be to make use of substantial regu-
lated but undiverted flows of the Narmada River during the period of buildup
of consumptive water use both upstream and in Gujarat and Rajasthan (at least
40 years). Due to gradually increasing abstractions, the firm capacity of
the RBPE in the conventional mode of operation (initially estimated at some
415 MS or 3,640 GWh a year) would decrease over time to nil. Secondary
energy generation (spill energy) would also decrease, but would be available
in high-flow years even at full development.  Due to its capability of pump-
back operation, however, the powerhouse would be able to maintain a firm peak
load of at least some 300 NW indefinitely.
9.07    Canalhead Powerhouse.  The power generation at the CHPH is dependent
on abstractions of Gujarat and Rajasthan from Sardar Sarovar Reservoir, and
to a lesser degree, on average elevations of the reservoir surface that would
tend to decrease over the time of basin development. Given the capability of
reregulating the flow to the main canal in the interlinked ponds between the
CHPH and the canalhead regulators, and due to the expected low daily plant
factor (15-30%), the CHPH could be operated as a peaking station. At tines
of spills, additional flows can be routed through the CHPH and back to the
river. Average annual generation at the full development stage is estimated
at about 800 GWh.
9.08    The two power sources would form part of the least cost capacity
expansion sequence in India's western region grid, even when carrying 100Z
of the cost of the dam and reservoir (see SDV, annex 9). The benefits from
power generation ha.-e been assessed by attaching an estimate of the social
value of energy to the volume of energy to be produced. An attempt was maae
to estimate the maximum willingness to pay for power in the industrial and
agricultural sectors, which together account for some 75% of energy demand in
the western grid. Based on these estimates and on average tariffs paid by
consumers in these and other sectors, an estimate of the average financial
willingness to pay was calculated and then adjusted to the economic value of
energy generated. lj The resulting economic price of energy at generation is
Rs 0.66/kWh, whereas the average financial revenue (at present tariffs) is
about Rs 0.47/kWh. All energy (firm and spill energy) has been valued at the
economic price. Its derivation is described in detail in SDV, annex 10.
Other Project Benefits
9.09    The creation of Sardar Sarovar Reservoir would allow the introduction
of fisheries. Estimates of the net benefits from fish production are
presently not available and, therefore, not included in the quantitative
1/ By multiplying with the assumed standard conversion factor (0.80) and the
average efficiency of transmission and distribution from generation to
consumer (0.82), including auxiliary c'nsumption.



-58-
analysis. This activity and the planned reforestation in the reservoir
catcbment and in parts of the command area would help to offset the economic
costs from submergence and from changes in the downstream environment.  lhe
availability of water in the vicinity of the reservoir and in the command
would improve general health conditions of the population. While the reser-
voir would not be able to protect downstream areas from the magnitude of
flood considered for sizing the spillways, it could be managed to mitigate
considerably the more frequent but lesser floods. The proposed flood warning
system would contribute towards this goal basinwide.
Assumptions for Economic Analysis / 2/
9.10    Cropping Patterns. Yields. and Cost of Cultivation.  Since the full
benefits from irrigation would only accrue after some 20 to 25 years, there
is more than usual uncertainty in assessing the cropping pattern at full
development. To mininmize this uncertainty, studies have been mace by NPG to
estimate cropping patterns for each of thirteen agroclimatic zones on the
basis of presently available information concerning yields, costs, acreage
response of farmers to prices, irrigation availability, likely water
availability and regional water allocation. However, the studies did not
take fully into account the likely increase in private groundwater pumping,
which has a bearing on overall water availability and likely cropping pat-
tern. Crop yields for a representative number of crops presently grown under
irrigation in Gujarat have been projected on the basis of what is alreaay
being achieved by progressive farmers under reliable irrigation and what may,
according to experts, be achieved on a broader basis by the average farmer 15
to 20 years from now with the type of irrigation service intended under the
project and with aaequate support services. Yields and cropping patterns as
adopted for the base case in economic analysis are conservative in as much as
they do not reflect any major breakthrough in agricultural technology or
major shift towards extremely high value crops, such as can be observed
already where there is private tubewell irrigation. Therefore, the future
value of production may well exceed projections as adopted now, while it is
less likely to fall short. The cost of cultivation (input requirementF) for
the various crops is based on sample surveys in Gujarat, adjusted for crop
yield assumptions. Yield and input requirements assumed for the future with
SSP are shown in detail in SDV, annex 10.
9.11    Present and Future Without Proiect Situation.  Present cropping
patterns by agro-climatic regions are based on detailed statistics for the
talukas (subdivisions of districts) covered by the SSP command area. Areas
served by existing major surface irrigation schemes in those talukas were not
counted in estimating the area presently irrigated. At present some 13% of
AJ See SDV, annex 10 for a detailed discussion of assumptions.
J   The economic analyses summarized in this chapter reflect an exchange rate
of USS1.0 to Rs 11.0 while the costs summarized in chapter VI reflect an
updated rate of USSl.0 to Rs 12.0. This variance is not expected to
significantly affect conclusions of the economic analysis presented for
the base case (paras 9.26-9.29) or conclusions of the risk analysis
discussed in paras 9.30-9.38.



-59-
the command area is irrigated, mostly by private groundwater.  When project-
ing the cropping pattern and intensity into the future, no significant chan-
ges were assumed, apart from further increaLes in groundwater development.
Accordingly, the irrigation intensity was assumed to increase from some 13%
to some 1bZ in the future without project over a period of 2U years, while
the cropping intensity would remain the same at 105X, as past performance
would suggest.
9.12    An analysis of yield trends since 1970 in Gujarat shows an annual
increase of about 2.7% a year for all crops. It is not likely that this
trend would continue much further, since it was linked to the development
of irrigation facilities and to the introduction of high yielding varieties
for many of the important crops. Adoption of such varieties appears to have
reached a saturation point. It was, therefore, assumed that yields of all
crops would increase by 20% over 20 years, and that the corresponding cost of
cultivation would increase somewhat faster (25%). Combined with a higher
irrigation intensity, average economic net returns per ha would be about 24%
higher in the future without the project than at present. Present yielas are
based on recent crop cutting surveys in the districts covered by the SSP
command and on agronoinic expertise on the differential between rainfed and
irrigated yield levels, where surveys are not available. Present cropping
patterns, yields, and input requirements situation are shown in SDV,
annex 10.
9.13    Agricultural Output and Input Prices.  All prices are expressed in
constant 19b4 rupees. Import or export parity prices were estimated for
major tradable crops such as cotton, rice, wheat and groundnut, based on IBRD
projections of world market prices for 1995 (expressed in 1984 constant
rupees at an exchange rate of Rs 1l/US$l). For nontraded foodgrains and
oilseeds, economic prices were based on real increases in economic prices of
tradeable foodgrains and oilseeds over the period 1984 thru 1985. For other
nontraded crops, a standard conversion factor of 0.6 was used.
9.14    Agricultural wages vary considerably seasonally and regionally, but
average about Rs 7.5 a man-day. Studies of farm labor supply and demand in
India typically suggest a ratio of economic shadow wage to market wage in the
range of 0.50 to 0.70. A farm labor conversion factor of 0.67 has been
adopted in the economic analysis. Costs of other agricultural inputs, such
as compost, bullock labor, agrochemicals, and miscellaneous costs, have been
multiplied by the standard conversion factor to arrive at their economic
equivalent. All economic and financial prices used are summarized in SDV,
annex 10.
9.15    Proiect Costs.  The Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project's nine year
implementation and annual O&N costs are presented in chapter VI. Detailed
estimates, including the rates of physical contingencies by item of each
major project component and other formulations of costs are given on tables
10 through 16. Base cost estimates were provided by GOG and/or their con-
sultants and reviewed by the appraisal mission. A differentiated approach
was taken to the level of detail in design and estimates requirea for
appraisal. The estimates range from final preconstruction quality for the
first and highest priority features such as the dam and initial reaches of
the main canal, to full feasibility level for minor works of the first stage
development area, to the best obtainable estimates of features that would not
be finally designed or laid out for a decade or more into the future. The



-60-
differential approach to project design and estimating standards and proce-
dures is justified by the following: the exceptionally long (22 year)
implementation period; the reduced effect, due to discounting, of possible
errors in estimates of project facilities that would not be implemented or
perhaps even designed for a decade or more; and worldwide experience with
large and long term public works projects that typically entail numerous
physical, financial, or political changes over time that cannot be
anticipated initially.  The SSP investment costs are given in table 25,
showing cost estimates (inclusive of physical contingencies) at financial
prices over the 22-year period of implementation from FY 1984/85 through
2005/06. Tables 17 and 26 show the estimated recurrent O&H and energy costs
for the Water Delivery and Drainage and Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power
projects, respectively.
9.16    Base costs plus physical contingencies, in constant 1984 rupees, for
all compLnents of the SS? were taken as the basis for economic investment
costs and aljusted by application of appropriate conversion factors to
specific matexiRls such as cement and steel, to skilled and unskilled labor
and, in a second step, to subcomponents such as earthwork, lining, other
civil works, equipment, etc. Where a special conversion factor could not be
derived, the standara conversion factor was used. Conversion factors used
are summarized in SDV, annex 10.
9.17    In addition to investment costs contained in table 25, the estimated
cost of the entire length of transmission lines into hP and Maharashtra, as
well as the estimated cost of subtransmission, urban distribution and rural
electrification (150% of transmission cost) was included in the economic
analysis.
9.18    Land acquisition in the reservoir area and for infrastructure in the
SSP command was costed using the estimated economic value of annual produc-
tion foregone, based on projections of agricultural net returns per ha in the
future without project. The cost of rehabilitation of oustees is included in
the investment cost for the Sardar Sarovar Dam, in as far as this cost does
not represent transfer payments. The value of foregone forest production in
the reservoir area due to submergence is also included.
9.19    Other costs for the economic analysis include the investment and
recurrent cost of private pumping from groundwater, the investment and O&M
cost of Rajasthan's use of Narmada water for irrigation, and a share of the
cost of Narmada Sagar Dam in MP.  The regulated releases from Sardar Sarovar
Reservoir could not be fully obtained without additional regulation in
upstream reservoirs ot the Narmada Basin, particularly at Narmaca Sagar.
Ideally, costs and benefits of the entire basin development would have to be
estimated simultaneously to take account of the interdependence of projects,
which is not possible at this stage. Guided by the NWDT's analysis for
interstate cost sharing, 20% of the investment cost for Narmaca Sagar Reser-
voir were allocated to the SS? to account for Narmada Sagar's regulation
benefits. The phasing of the SSi's total economic costs of the oam and
reservoir, power and irrigation components is shown in figure 13.
Buildup of Benefits Over Time
9.20    Water Use.  Abstraction o± Narmada water by Gujarat would follow the
phasing of areas coming under irrigation. First irrigation releases would be
made in year 9 (l992Ip3). It is assumed that each hectare would ultimately



-61-
be allocated a volume of water consistent with the estimated final water
availability from all public sources for irrigation, the projected system
efficiency, and the size of conand.  However, higher allocations resrlting
in correspondingly higher irrigation intensities would be given initially
until the full command is under irrigation. System efficiency is projected
to increase from a low 34% in the first year of irrigation to a final 48% for
surface water over a period of 10 years. jj The gross area irrigated is
determined, in any year, by water availability at the field, by the estimated
average water demand of irrigated crops, and by the assumed rate at which
farmers would actually apply water in relation to the calculated requirement
(90%). Agency groundwater abstraction for conjunctive use would be phased in
gradually over a period of some twelve years, starting about 4 years after
the first irrigation. Wates from en route rivers would become available only
much later. Some 13,270 IEm would ultimately be available for irrigation
from all public sources, or about 3,540 &)/ha at the plant.
9.21    Some private groundwater development would take place with and
without project. In addition, new private groundwater would be developed
based on the induced recharge of the aquifer from surface water losses and
would thus contribute also to the subsurface drainage requirements. There
are several reasons why such new development can be expected to take place,
although with some delay:
(a) public surface water supply, at full development, would not be ample
in relation to irrigable area;
(b) public groundvater cannot be developed in all areas;
(c) farmers would recognize the benefits from additional flexibility
and security of supply, especially in years of low reservoir
yields,towards the hot season and in the maintenance of high value
perennial crops; and
(d) farmers would be able to accumulate savings from the initial stream
of incremental income from irrigation and would be in a better
position to afford their own wells.
9.22    All private groundwater development would ultimately contribute
another 3,300 Mm3 per year, or about 1,750 m3/ha. Buildup of water use oyer
time from the different sources is illustrated in figure 14. Water
availability for Rajasthan was taken as a proportion of availability for
Gujarat.  It has been assumed that Rajasthan would start to draw its share as
soon as the main canal is completed (year 14 or 1997/98).
9.23    Each block of command area coming under irrigation in a year was
assimed to follow a particular path of transition from the respective start-
ing situation (as for future without project) to full development in terms of
net returns per unit area. The potential net returns for each time period
would increase gradually to a maximum over a period of 12 years after first
irrigation, and farmers in each block would approach and ultimately achieve
1] Higher efficiencies were assumed for public and private groundwater (60Z
and 70%, respectively).



-62-
the yearly potential levels according to assumed annual adoption rates over a
period of five years. The asLumptions are more fully described in SDV,
annex 10.
9.24    Phasing of M&I water has been projected according to tentative plans
of the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board. Withdrawals would start at
about the same time as the first irrigation, and would not reach their final
level until 30 years later (see SDV, annex 10).
9.25    Annual average releases through the RBPH and corresponding generation
were estimated in function of projected buildup of withdrawals in the
upstrean states and from Sardar Sarovar Reservoir. For ihis purpose, annual
upstream abstraction has been assumed to reach 16,300 Mm after 2.5 years, and
the full development stage (24,300 Hm:3) aftes a total of 42 years. Present
abstraction upstream is estimated at lb0 Mm . Power operations would start
with less than full capacity in year 9 (1992/93). Full capacity was assumed
to be available in year 10. Energy generation in conventional operation is
derived from the sequence of projected flows through the RBPR. Pumpback
operations using the reversible turbine-generators are assumed to start, at a
low level, in the second year of power operation, building up gradually over
15 years to sustain ultimately a 25X load factor. Energy generation at the
CEPH was estimated from releases to the main canal and mean annual heaa
available for generation.
Economic Rate of Return fc- SSP: The Base Case
9.26    The economic viability of the SS?, including its three functions of
power generation, irrigation, and M&I water supply, was evaluated through a
simulation model covering 50 years of the project's life and taking
explicitly into account the interdependence of the three functions in terms
of faciLity use and water resources, as well as the dependence on upstream
development. The resulting buildup of total project benefits over time is
illustrated in figure 15. The economic benefit and cost streams for the base
case are summarized in table 27 and graphically shown in figure 16. Using
base case values for all model parameters, the economic rate of return (ERR)
is 13%. Had power benefits been valued at the equivalent (at generation) of
the average tariff realized by State Electricity Boards, (Rs 0.47/kWh instead
of Rs 0.66) the ERR would have been about 12%.
9.27    The principal objectives o' the SSP are to safeguard basic water
supply to the human population and to industries in Gujarat as well as to
increase agricultural production through provision of the presently most
limiting factor, water. Those are the binding rules of society as formulated
by the NWDT stating that consumptive water uses have priority over power
generation. Il: is supported by the notion that water cannot be replaced by
any other factor in agriculture and human consumption, whereas power can be
produced from alternative resources. Therefore, power generation, although
contributing a large share of total benefits, is a residual benefit, taking
advantage of undiverted flows during the buildup period of basin diversions.
Consequently, no project is conceivable without the irrigation and M^I water
supply components. Therefore, and also because joint reservoir costs cannot
be allocated between the interdependent purposes of this project, it is not
appropriate to estimate separate ERRs for the different purposes. Given
GOG's decision that the main objective is providing irrigation and
municipal/industrial water supply, it is unrealistic to conceive an alterna-
tive project satisfying this objective, as required by the classical method



-63-
of appraising multi-purpose projects, because any alternative means of
providing such water is prohibitively expensive.
9.28    However, for analytical purposes, it is possible to conceive an
alternative ,power-only," project at Sardar Sarovar, which would use most of
the water resources released from upstream reservoirs. Such a project would
have an ERR of about 15Z. Adding the irrigation and H&I functions, and
considering those as an incremental project, the .`add-on" project would have
an ERR of about 12%, producing an EER for the combined, multipurpose SSP of
13%. jj The present values for the .'power-only" alternative and for the
.add-on:' project are detailed in table 28. Alternative allocations of avail-
able river water over time are conceivable and may produce some gain in
.optimality", but are not feasible due to the binding rules which society,
through the NWDT has decided upon.
9.29    The proposed SSP is more than a very large project; it provides the
basis of a regional development and of Gujarat's state water plan for regions
north of the Narmada River. The allocation of Narmada water to basic water
supply for villages, cities, and industries, although relatively small, is
critical for the further development of a water short and drought prone state
such as Gujarat. The irrigation system would provide a basic infrastructure
for the expansion not only of the agricultural sector but of an entire
regional economy through linkage and multiplier effects. Because of its very
large size relative to the rest of the Gujarat economy, the project stretches
the limits under which partial analysis through economic internal rate of
return is appropriate. Worldwide experience would also suggest that large
scale basic infrastructure projects generally tend to have low rates of
return when evaluated only on their immediate, quantifiable benefits and
costs. Due to its size, the SSP would have clearly more than marginal
effects on the Gujarat economy. The irrigation project area would cover
about 20Z of the state's territory, and its impact, in terms of agricultural
production, would be proportionally even larger. Incremental consumption by
rural beneficiaries, marketing and processing of agricultural producLs, and
demacd for agricultural inputs and labor would generate secondary income and
employment effects. While existing data are not sufficient to quantify such
effects for Gujarat, studies elsewhere (Malaysia) indicate that these "dovn-
stream" effects of irrigation projects in terms of value added on a region
may be as high as 75% of the direct effects. .j The same study estimated
that each dollar of ."downstream" value added associated with the project
needed between US $0.75 to $1.50 of complementary investments appropriately
distributed over all other sectors. This would suggest indeed high rates of
return on follow-on investments. -Inother study on the Indian economy sug-
gests that an increase in the growth rate of agricultural output of 1Z may
AJ  While such an addition would cause some loss of pover benefits relative
to the hypothetical *"power-only." project, this would be partially compen-
sated through power generation at the CHPR and use of reversible tur-
bine-generators. Pumpback operations have been excluded from the 'power
only. case, due to the alre dy high long-term plant factor.
]| Bell, C. and Hazell, P., ."Measuring the Indirect Effects of an Agricul-
tural Investment Project on its Surrounding Region,." American Journal of
Agricultural Economics, vol. 62, no. 1 (1980) World Bank Reprint Series
no. 154.



-64-
trigger an increase in the growth rate of national income of about 0.7%, and
of industrial production of about 0.5%. LJ The quantitative economic evalua-
tion of the SSP, however, does not attempt to take these secondary effects
into consideration.
Proiect Risk
9.30    Sensitivity to Key Parameters.  Sensitivity analysis was conducted
through computation of 'switching values' to determine how deviations from
the main assumptions would effect the economic viability of the project. The
".switching value" is that value of a parameter to which it will have to
increase (or decrease) in order to render present value of the project's net
benefits zero. The discount rate used was 12Z. The following table shows
the percentage changes between appraisal assumption and switching value for a
number of selected parameters:
Percentage Difference Between
Appraisal and Switchirm Values
Cost Over-runs (in real terms, economic cost)
Total cost                                     +-i
Dam cost                                      +152
Total reservoir cost                          +104
Riverbed powerhouse cost                      +214
Power transmission & distribution cost        +144
Total power cost                               +75
Main canal cost                                +77
Branch canal cost                             +151
Distribution & drainage system cost            +85
Total irrigation system cost                   +24
Benefit Short-falls
Total benefits                                 -13
Agricultural benefits                          -22
AgricultuL.1 plus M&I water benefits           -21
Power benefits                                 -38
Implementation Periods
Dam                                            +22
Power facilities                               +55
Narmada Sagar Dam                            >+100
Irrigation system                              -30
Period to reach full irrigation
development                                 +300
1/  Rangarajan, C., 'Agricultural Growth and Industrial Performance in
India," Research Report no. 33, International Food Policy Research
Institute, 1982.



-65-
Other Parameters
Cement conversion factor                     +110
Unskilled labor conversion factor             t!5
(construction and agriculture)
Social value of energy                        -35
Narmada River mean runoff                     -28
Narmada water available to
Gujarat & Rajasthan                         -48
Irrigation system efficiency
(canal water)                               -37
Water requirements for average
irrigated crop                              +26
Cultivable command area                      +130
Economic crop prices                          -17
Economic farm input prices                    +73
Irrigated yields (with project)               -13
Rainfed yields
(without & with project)                    +60
Farm inputs on irrigated crops
(with project)                              +40
Irrigated yields & inputs
varying simultaneously                      -20
9.31    Among these factors, those relating to yields, to prices, and physi-
cal parameters (water resource availability and crop water requirements) are
subject mainly to apprai-al errors; project planning has little control over
them. Yields are based on judgement of the potential of today-s crops when
supported by responsive, equitable, and reliable water conveyance and
delivery systems, by proper drainage facilities, and by an efficient agricul-
tural extension service some twenty years from now. Operation and design
criteria, including ample conveyance and delivery capacities, are specifi-
cally geared towards such operations. A plan for O&H has been worked out and
agreed with GOG to ensure that operation makes good use of the potential
built into the design. Projected gross returns per hectare are on the
average not considerably higher (+38%) than what is being presently achieved
under irrigation (mostly by private well owners). They do not imply any
major breakthrough in agro-technology, and thus may understate the potential.
A large shortfall relative to the base assumptions is therefore unlikely.
Yields may be jeopardized in parts of the command only if incipient soil
drainage problems are not remedied by proper means, e.g., through vertical
(well) drainage. Criteria for drainage and conjunctive use of groundwater
have been developed and agreed upon. As to the economic value of power, a
reduction by 35% would imply that it falls short even of the average finan-
cial revenue realized presently, in spite of strong indications that the
willingness to pay is higher.
9.32    Risks relating to implementation periods and project costs (in real
terms) can, to some extent, be reduced by good planning and diagnosis. It is
noteworthy that major risks from implementation delay are likely to arise at
the dam and power complex rath-r than in the irrigation infrastructure.
Timely project implementation is related to institutional and staff
calabilities, organization and management and proper funding of the SSP.  The
implementing agency, the state of Gujarat and its institutions, are fully
committed to the SSP. Institutional capabilities of the highest calibre are
found in Gujarat and in India as exhibited by their excellent performance
during project preparation and design phases.  The ability of government to



-66-
reach across agency lines and to draw upon the private sector for in depth
technical support is unique and indicative of the level of statewide co mit-
ment and support to be found in the future. However, timely implementation
depends on support for recommendea institutional, organizational, managerial,
and financial initiatives, as well as on the assurance that recommended staff
levels and technical consulting services are maintained for efficient and
effective management of this massive and complex project. In this regard,
GOG has already indicated acceptance of centralized procurement, a management
information system, early initiation of the O& organization, continuation of
the DRP, and utilization of outside technical expertise in certain special-
ized design and construction activities, including a canal review board.
Successful implementation would also depend heavily upon early establishment
of the recommended organizations in each state and at the center for managing
and monitoring the resettlement and rehabilitation of oustees from the main
reservoir.
9.33    Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, worldwide experience in large
public works development shows that implementation slippage is frequently
caused by inadequate public sector financial support. Financial capabilities
of Gujarat and hP during the coming Five-Year Plan period have been assessed,
and while the SSP would certainly cause considerable strain on their invest-
ment budgets, its financing is considered feasible given the priority
accorded to the investments in each state plan and given GOI's commitment to
provide all funds necessary to ensure timely project completion (see paras
6.06-6.10). Inspite of a strong statewide resolve to implement the SSP, the
risk of slippage related to institutional capabilities, organization, manage-
meat, and funding remains potentially high. This need has resulted in the
agreements with GOI and the participating states cited elsewhere in this SAR
and suimarized in paras 10.01 to 10.02, that relate to these issues, espe-
cially the establishment of GOG's MISC by December 1985 (see para 10.02[o]).
9.34    Project costs appear particularly important for the economic
viability of the SSP. Dam costs are not expected to to exceed the estimates
significantly, since foundation conditions are well known, and the costs of
the structure have been assessed in great detail (contractor's type
estimate). The RBEPH cost contains an element of uncertainty with respect to
cavern excavations, but is otherwise well founded. The cost of the first one
third of the length of the main canal (which represents more than one third
of the total cost) has been assessed in detail and is mostly subject to some
cost variations with respect to local geological conditions. The remainder
of irrigation works, while based on the cost of sample blocks and typical
cost per unit of capacity and length of major canals, may vary in a wider
range, but in either direction. Special features such as the pumplift
schemes on Saurashtra and Kutch branches have been costed on feasibility type
estimates, but overruns here would not influence the overall economic
viability significantly.
9.35    A particular, although not substantial, risk with respect to power
generation in the early years is the possibility of delays in the construc-
tion of the major upstream regulation facility, Narmada Sagar Dam in MP. The
NWDT ordered MP to complete it at the same time as Sardar Sarovar Dam.
Average annual power generation in the early years at Sardar Sarovar RBPH
would be reduced by about 25Z without Narmada Sagar in place. While the
preparation of Narmada Sagar has been somewhat delayed, the MP project is now
expected to be completed in mid-1993. Full upstream regulation would thus be
available from the outset. The Bank is considering the financing of Narmaaa



-67-
Sagar Project and is actively involved in its preparation to achieve the
implementation target. A slippage of 5 years would result in a decrease of
the ERR of less than one half percent, and even 10 years slippage would not
lower the ERR below 12X.
9.36    Quantitative Risk Analysis.  If all base case assumptions turned out
to be accurate, the SSP in its totality would yield an economic rate of
return to investment higher than the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
India. It is, however, certain that all assumptions would not be correct.
What then is the likelihood of a measure of returns to investment, such as
the ERR, to fall below any given minimum level? While this question is
pertinent to all investment decisions under uncertainty, the case of the SS2
warrants a more detailed analysis for the following reasons: firstly, the
time frame for implementation and benefit buildup is unusually long, and
uncertainties increase with the remoteness of events in time; and secondly,
the "stakes" are unusually high given the size of proposed investments. The
returns to investment are the result of the interaction of a large number of
variables, such as costs of individual components (in real terms), implemen-
tation periods, buildup speed for benefits, resource availability, agricul-
tural yields and inputs, volume ot energy produced, economic values attached
to benefits, etc. All of these can be perceived as random events following
certain probability distributions. An effort was made to quantify
approximately such distributions for a number of parameters based on judge-
ment of staff and experts involvea, and thus to express the perceived
variability of individual events between extremes. A number of parameters
entering the cost-benefit simulation model were subjectea to random variation
under defined probability distributions (Monte Carlo method). 1] Annual
random fluctuations, such as of rainfall and riverflow, were not considered.
All parameters were assumed to be mean values for a given year instead. ERRs
and net present values were then calculatea for 500 different, randomly
chosen sets of parameters.
9.37    The following factors affecting risk have been incorporated into the
quantitative risk analysis model:
%a) costs of dam, powerhouses, transmission system, main canal, brancnes,
distribution and drainage system, command area and groundwater
development;
(b) implementation periods for the above;
(c) errors in estimates of economic conversion factors;
(d) deviation of agricultural gross returns (yields), cost of cultivation,
water demand, and cropping intensities from base assumptions;
(e) deviation of economic prices of agricultural outputs and
inputs and of the economic value of power from base assumptions;
(f) change of buildup rate of agricultural benefits from assumed rate;
iJ Obvious or supposed correlation among random variables was taken into
account either directly through equations linking related parameters, or
through identical random numbers used in generating correlated variables.



-68-
(g) loss of agricultural production due to drainage problems;
(h) deviation of river runoff and of actual water availability to Gujarat
and Rajasthan from assumed volumes, and of system efficiencies from
those assumed;
(i)  variations in the share of Gujarat-s water allocated to M&I use;
(j) delays in construction of the Narmada Sagar Reservoir upstream; and
(k) variations in the times that it takes the upstream states to
reach pre-defined development stages.
Details on the assumed probability distribution are discussed in SDV,
annex 10.
9.38    lhe risk analysis as described above yielded a random sample of ERRs,
based on which the expected ERR would be 12%. The minimum ERR observed in
the sample was 7.4%, and the maximum 18.9%. Since the values of the ERR in
the sample are approximately normally distributed, the following inferences
have been made about the lixkelihood of the ERR falling within certain inter-
vals: 1/
Ranze of ERR           Probability         Cum. Probability
,_)                    (%)                   (Z)
Less than 8                2.2                   2.2
8 to 10                   13.4                  15.6
10 to 12                  34.4                  50.0
12 to 14                  34.4                  84.4
14 to 16                  13.4                  97.8
Greater than 16            2.2                 100.0
The sample distribution of the ERR is shown graphically in figure 17.  It is
noteworthy that the band of ERRs observed spreads only about 5-6 percentage
points around the mean, and that an ERR of less than 10% would occur only
with a chance of one in six. The spread of the distribution might be some-
what larger, if year-to-year fluctuations of water availability and possibly
of rainfall were simulated as well, especially in regard to power benefits.
The risk inherent in the SSP appears to be relatively low. This can be
attributed to the multipurpose character of the project, which spreads the
risk over several functions, and to the nature of the power function that in
itself is less risky than the irrigation function. In summary, the project
is expected to yield satisfactory returns to investment and to carry a
reasonably low overall risk, considering its size and time frame.
1/ The sample mean is 12.00Z and the standard deviation 2.00.



-69-
X. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
Government of India (GOI)
10.01   Agreements have been reached with GOI that it would:
(a) Make proceeds of the IDA credit available to GOG in accordance with its
standard arrangements for development assistance to the states (para
6.09(a));
(b) Cause GOG to implement the project in accordance with its obligations
including provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources
needed to achieve its purposes (para 6.09(b));
(c) Cause GOR to perform its obligations regarding implementation of the
project as provided for in the NWDT decision (para 6.09(c)); and
Cd)  Maintain the NCA and NRC each with oowers, functions, responsibilities,
staffing, funds and membership as may be required to carry out their
respective duties (para 7.05).
Government of Guiarat (GOG)
10.02   Agreements have been reached with GOG that it would:
Ca) Plan, design, construct, operate and maintain the project works in
accordance with the concepts, policies, scope, objectives, planning
criteria, design and construction standards in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank and as enumerated in Schedule A (paras 3.26 and 5.27);
'b) Undertake all measures considered necessary to minimize the risk of
malaria, filaria, schistosomiasis and other water-related diseases that
may result from implementation of the project (para 3.28);
(c) Assure the supply of quality materials critically needed for construc-
tion over the project's implementation including but not limited to
cement and steel in accordance with construction requirements
(para 5.28);
(d) Acquire all lands and rights needed for carrying out the project and
furnish the Bank promptly after such acquisition with satisfactory
evidence that all necessary lands and rights would be available for
purposes of implementing the project (para 5.31);
(e) Provide sufficient funds, facilities, services, and other resources
required to carry out the project (para 6.09(d));
(f) After the IDA credit has been disbursed, complete in a timely manner the
irrigation and drainage systems and other water supply facilities under
the SSP located within its State boundaries in accordance with standards
and criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.09(e));



-70-
(g)  Ci) Maintain separate records and accounts for project resources, expen-
ditures and operations; (ii) ensure that such project accounts are
audited annually and that copies of such accounts, certified as to their
accuracy by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, are submitted
to the Bank not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year; (iii) have final audits prepared for project accounts for each
fiscal year by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and forward such audit
reports to the Bank immediately after their finalization; and (iv) make
complete accounts and financial statements available for incpection
during Bank review missions (para 6.14);
(h)  Maintain the NCA and NRC each with powers, functions, responsibilities,
staffing, funds and membership as may be required to carry out their
respective duties (para 7.05);
(i) Maintain the NDD, headed by a qualified and experienced officer, with
such powers, functions, responsibilities, organization, staffing and
funds as needed to enable it to undertake its responsibilities for the
overall implementation and management of the SSP including (para 7.09);
(i)  the operation and maintenance of the irrigation, municipal,
industrial and domestic water facilities under the project;
(ii) the operation and maintenance of the Sardar Sarovar dam and
spillway, Garudeshwar weir, Vadgam Saddle dam, the irrigation
bypass tunnel and the system of dams and reservoirs and interlink-
ing channels and related facilities located between the CHPH and
the main canal head regulator;
(iii) the supply and distribution of irrigation, municipal, industrial
and domestic water resulting from the SSF; and
(iv) through an appropriate agency to be established by December 31,
1988, operate and maintain the hydroelectric power component of the
SSP (see SAR 5107-IN, Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project) and in
accordance with the NWDT decision, supply hydroelectric power to
GOG, GOMP and GOB resulting from the implementation of the
hydroelectric power component of the SSP;
(j) Maintain the following agencies with the powers, functions, respon-
sibilities, membership, staffing, organization and funds required to
enable it to adequately undertake its responsibilities (para 7.12):
(i)  The NIPC for the coordination and timely interaction among the
various departments and agencies of the GOG responsible for carry-
ing out the project; and
(ii)  The NPG for carrying out planning studies of the Narmada River
Development program including those required to develop a plan for
the operation and maintenance of the hydroelectric power and water
delivery and drainage facilities under the SSP;
(k) By June 30, 1985, furnish to the Bank for its approval a suitable train-
ing program including the respective syllabi, schedules and estimated
funds and thereafter carry out such programs covering (para 7.15):



-71-
(i) environmental sciences and related mitigated measures;
(ii) block development of minor irrigation and drainage networks includ-
ing field surveys, layouts, designs, estimates, and related
activities;
(iii)  project operation and maintenance including computer based central-
ized data information systems, and couumunications and remote con-
trol O&M systems; and
(iv) establishment of a permanent O&M training facility including con-
struction of the required buildings and provision of training
equipment;
(1)  By April 1, 1985, establish and thereafter maintain a Consultancy Board
with functions and responsibilities required to enable it to assist GOG
in reviewing technical designs, criteria and standaras of the project
(para 7.18(a));
(a)  (i)  employ consultants and/or experts with qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank and
on the basis of the Bank's August 1981 "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (para 7.18(b)); and
(ii) by April 1, 1985, propose and furnish to the Bank for its approval,
a list of consultants and/or experts in the following areas, inter
alia, concrete mixing, handling and placement; gates and hoists;
hydraulic transients; communication systems; sensing, control and
processor designs for canals; canal operation and maintenance and
electrical and hydraulic machinery (para 7.18(c));
(n)  Maintain within the NVD the CPU, headed by a qualified and experienced
officer, with such powers, functions, responsibilities, staffing,
organization and funds as would be required to undertake the procurement
of all goods and services required for the implementation of the SSP
(para 7.19);
(o)  By December 31, 1985, establish and thereafter maintain, within the XDD,
a NISC to be headed by a qualified and experienced officer, with such
powers, functions, responsibilities, staffing, organization and funds as
would be required for monitoring and evaluation of the various
activities under the SSP (para 7.20);
(p)  Furnish to the Bank, semi-annual and annual reports, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress of
the project within three months after the end of each reporting period
(para 7.21);
(q)  Furnish to the Bank within six months after the project closing date,
a report of such scope and level of detail as may reasonably be re-
quested by the Bank regarding the project's execution and initial
operations, and costs, expenditures, and benefits to be derived
(para 7.21);



-72-
(r)  By December 31, 1987, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its approval,
an operation and maintenance plan including provision of funds and staff
required for the irrigation and drainage systems under the SSP and
thereafter, adopt and implement the approved plan (para 7.22(a));
(s)  During project implementation and operation, efficiently maintain the
project's water distribution systems as well as efficiently operate,
repair and replace any vehicles and equipment under the project in
accordance with sound engineering and financial practices
(para 7.22(b));
(t)  Commencing on April 1, 1989, establish and thereafter maintain a system
of separate accounts within the NDD for purposes of recording
(para 7.22(c)):
(i) operation and maintenance costs of the water delivery and drainage
project components of the SSP; and
(ii)  the water charges collected in accordance with the agreement in (u
and v) below and any additional funding to be provided from time to
time to accomplish its purposes;
Cu)  By September 30, 1987, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review
and comments, a study to determine the level of irrigation water charges
in the SS command area required to cover full operation and maintenance
costs, and a reasonable portion of the capital costs and, thereafter,
implement the study results taking into account the Bank's comments, if
any, by establishing and thereafter maintaining the irrigation water
charges for the delivery area of the SS? at levels required to cover
full operation and maintenance costs, and a reasonable portion of the
capital costs. Also, farmer's capacity to pay, may be taken into
account when setting the level of w.ter charges (para 8.13); and
Cv)  Establish and thereafter maintain the municipal, domestic and industrial
water charges in those areas served by the SSP at such levels as would
be required, on average, to cover full operation, maintenance and capi-
tal costs (para 8.14).
Recommendations
10.03   The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US150 M (SDR
149.5 M equivalent).
Condition of Effectiveness
10.04   The effectiveness of the IDA credit for the Water Delivery and Drainage
Project would be dependent upon the concurrent effectiveness of the IBRD loan
and/or the IDA credit for the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project in order to
assure the concurrent and timely implementation of botL projects whose
facilities are mutually dependent one upon the other (para 6.08).



-73-
Schedule A
Page I
SCHEDULE A
Standards and Criteria for Plannins. Desi2n. Construction and Operation
and Maintenance of the Irrization and Drainafe and M&I
Water SuRPlY Facilities of the Sardar Sarovar Project
(1) The planning and design shall be consistent with (i) the quality, the
quantity, and location of legally available surface and sub-surface
water supplies, (ii) size and location of areas to be serviced, (iii)
vagaries of climate over the Sardar Sarovar Project command area,
(iv) quality and location of soil, (v) protection against surface
flooding and subsurface waterlogging, (vi) public groundwater
development in conjunctive use schemes, and (vii) flexibility to meet
future crop requirements.
(2) The irrigation network shall include two parts: (i) a conveyance and
(ii) a delivery network. The conveyance network shall be lined down
to 200-500 ha service area turnouts and consist of the Narmada Main
Canal, branch canals and distributaries. The delivery network below
the service area shall consist of a lined system of minor canals to
serve chaks averaging each about 40 ha in size. The chaks in turn
shall have lined subminor canals with turnouts to areas of about 8 ha
in size within which individual farm turnouts shall be served through
a system of unlined farm or field channels. This hierarchy of con-
veyance and delivery system shall be adhered to throughout the Sardar
Sarovar Project command area.
(3)  The conveyance network design shall be based on a "controlled volume'
concept of operation which shall minimize response time in adjusting
to anticipated rapid changes in the network's flows for safety and
efficiency of operation.
(4) Conveyance network designs shall be analyzed and checked by
state-of-the-art hydraulic transient (wave movement) methodologies,
including computer based models for analyses of normal and emergency
canal operations, analyses of wind runup, and other hydraulic and
physical considerations.
(5) The delivery network design below the service area shall be free
draining and operate on either an "on" or "off" condition neces-
sitated by delivery of rotational water supplies.
(6) Appropriate design technology and operating criteria shall be applied
to ensure quick, reliable, responsive and equitable water deliveries
to the Sardar Sarovar Project command area beneficiaries, including
the criteria set forth or referred to in this schedule.



Schedule A
Pane 2
(7) Water Allocation
(a) Seasonal and annual water allowance shall be established in
terms of volumes of water per ha of net cultivable co-nand area
to be uniform within each agro-climatic region of the command
area.
(b) Class A, Class B and Class C of water shall be established from
which a water allowance shall be determined annually and
seasonally to maximize the use of available water, and which,
further, shall reflect levels of resource -eliability and
availability. For purposes of this schedule the terms Class A,
Class B, and Class C have the following meaning: Class A means
any water available to Gujarat pursuant to the provisions of the
Decision at 75% dependability plus developed groundwater; Class
B means water surplus to Class A in any given water year after
the completion of the Sardar Sarovar Project, available to
Gujarat pursuant to the provisions of the Decision; and Class C
means water surplus to Class A and Class B during the Sardar
Sarovar Project build up period, available to Gujarat pursuant
to the provisions of the Decision.
Cc) Class A water shall be allocated by regions and subregions in
accordance with socio-economic objectives, agro-climatic condi-
tions, and physical characteristics of the project. The maximum
variation among regional per ha allocations of Class A water
shall be about 20%, with exception of areas of marginal quality
lands. Actual quantities (of Class A water) available each year
shall be distributed in proportion to the basic allocation.
Class B water shall be allocated in proportion to the river
water component of Class A, within the physical constraints of
the system. Class C water shall be allocated to farmers in
regions as the Sardar Sarovar Project command area builds up in
proportion to estimated ground water quantity that has not
materialized at that particular point in time.
(d) Farmers owning wells shall be served in the same way as farmers
who do not own wells. The O&M agency to be provided under the
Project shall be responsible, inter alia, for p.-eventing
detrimental groundwater conditions and removing all water of
poor quality.
(e) Water shall be supplied to all lands designated as irrigable and
reasonably contiguous within the Sardar Sarovar Project command
area. Facilities and system operations shall be designed assum-
ing that no land consolidation shall occur. Farmers shall be
free to select crops, cropped area, and methods of irrigation,
in order to maximize the use of the allocated water and other
existing water resources. The canal system shall not be operated
to serve the special needs of perennial crops.



-75-                 Schedule A
Page 3
(f) Demands and use of the Narmada River water for rural-domestic,
municipal, industrial, and irrigation use shall have priority
over releases for power generation, pursuant to the provisions
of the Decision.
(g) All the vater allocated to rural-domestic, municipaL and
industrial users shall be drawn from Gujarat's Narmada River
supply; groundwater developed by rural-domestic, municipal and
industrial agencies shall not be assessed against the
above-mentioned allotments. Rural-domestic, municipal and
industrial customers served by the Sardar Sarovar Project shall
receive untreated river water through the canal system at a
limited number of designated sites. Certain restrictions, due
to system capacity limitations and peak agricultural delivery,
may preclude delivery throughout the year. Theref.re, the
system shall be designed to permit rural-domestic, municipal and
industrial deliveries during a 9.5 month period minimum. Mini-
mum domestic, municipal and industrial delivery capacity during
the said 9.5 month period shall not be less than 50% of the 9.5
month average period.
(8) Service to Farmers
(a) Each irrigation service area shall be served by a single outlet
from the conveyance system. Irrigation water shall be delivered
to each service area 24-hr/day for a fixed period of time at
intervals to be established by the farmers for each season and
commencing on a fixed day of the week; nevertheless, the naximum
interval shall be seven days during peak crop demand. Farmers
witb i  the service area shall rotate subdivided flows so that
all farmers shall rebeive one irrigation during the period of
supply. The concept aims at establishing an on/off delivery to
each service area and simultaneous ungated flow proportioned by
fixed devices to subareas within which the farmers shall rotate
streams.
(b) Agricultural Extension Advisors shall assist the farmers in
determining schedules for delivery of allocated irrigation water
in terms of size of flow, number of irrigations, and dates of
delivery. Short-term altering of the delivery schedule to a
se.vice area in response to rainfall shall follow predetermined
procedures. The schedule of rotation among farmers shall be
fixed for each season so that each farmer shall know the day of
the week and the hours during which he is entitled to take
irrigation water. This schedule may be altered with each season
so that night operation shall affect all farmers in alternate
seasons.
(c) Services to remove surplus waters which could be harmful to
crops shall be provided and shall include both excess surface
water and excess groundwater as follows:



-76-
Schedule A
Page 4
- Excess precipitation from storms on a five-year frequency
shall be drained in a manner that the area inundated for more
than 72 hours shall be restricted to a maximum of 25% of any
chak; provided, however, that this principle shall not be
applied to certain of the heaviest soils and least drainable
areas such as rice paddy lands of the Sardar Sarovar Project
where sound engineering practices shall be applied.
- Surface drainage facilities shall be provided from the 40-ha
chak. The farmers shall be responsible for linking the
facilities to their respective farms.
- Groundwater control shall be provided to limit the rise of
groundwater levels to 5 meters average from the surface in
any given area and to 2 meters in isolated areas between
drains. Groundwater control shall be provided by means of
wells and deep surface drains.  Water pwumped to control
groundwater of suitable quality, and water recovered from
surface drains, shall be utilized for irrigation on a con-
junctive basis.
C9) Operating Concevts
(a) The conveyance and delivery systems shall be designed and
operated in a manner to appropriately serve the Sardar Sarovar
Project.
(b) The scheme of operation shall ensure supply and reliability.
(c) Quantities and dates of deliveries to service areas shall vary
annually and by season to accomodate all reasonable water safety
conditions.
(d) The seasonal water supply shall reflect the surface water and
groundwater actually available during the season. The dates of
deliveries selected by the farmers shall be adhered to, and the
volumes of irrigation shall be proportionately increased or
decreased as actual water availability dictates; provided,
however, that major changes in annual availability evolving
during the kharif shall be taken into consideration when for-
mulating the rabi schedule. Procedures for responding to rain-
fall shall be formulated in coordination with farmer repre-
sentatives. Records of actual deliveries made to each service
area shall be compiled weekly by the I-DD.
(e) A controlled-volume system shall be implemented, including all
necessary flow control structures needed to minimize wastage of
water during operations.
(f) A detailed plan for systems operations in response to normal
operations and to each type of emergency shall be established
before the systems are placed in operation.



-77-                  Schedule A
Page 5
(g)  The drainage system shall be operated to ensure removal of
excess water within reasonable limits of reliability. Excess
surface water flows shall enter the drainage system by gravity
from local collector systems and shall flow uucontrolled to
disposal areas. Visual monitoring shall be conducted during
large flows to assess conditions and allow precautionary actions
to be taken where structures are endangered, or where the inun-
dation could create serious economic or health problems.
(10) Conveyance and Distribution Network Design Standards and Criteria
(a) The Narmada Main Canal shall divert water from its head
regulator and shall have sufficient capacity to convey a peak
demand imposed by the branches with water depth and lined
freeboard and unlined bank freeboard appropriate for safe opera-
tions, with a minimum requirement of 1.25 meters lined and
unlined freeboard sufficient to contain design requirements,
including wind run-up and operating transients with potential
for greater freeboard to be located immediately upstream of
cross canal structures.
Cb)  The Main Canal main conveyance network design shall include
unreinforced concrete lining on the sides and in the bed, with
appropriate consideration given to reinforced reaches on embank-
ment approaches to in-line structures, and shall be adequately
protected from seepage and hydrostatic pressureg by appropriate
earthwork and foundation design and by the selective placement
of drainage works under and adjacent to the lining.
Cc) The capacity of the Narmada Main Canal in each reach shall
reflect the probability of instantaneous peak demands imposed on
it by the requirement of the canal branches served downstream in
Gujarat and Rajasthan. Since all branches would not peak simul-
taneously, the Narmada Main Canal shall be sized to deliver the
sum of peak demands of all branches downstream of the Nohra
branch at 119 km plus peak Rajasthan deliveries and Narmada Main
Canal losses. From Nohra branch upstream to the headworks,
values thus obtained shall be reduced from the sum of the flows
at Nohra branch to 80% of the sum of total flows at Wadia branch
at 10 km.  Main canal cross-regulating structures shall be
located as necessary to control water elevations in the. canal
within set limits of fluctuation during normal and emergency
operation, to store water in the system during a shutdown, and
to isolate any reaches or any river crossings having significant
potential for failure. Diversions from the Narmada Main Canal
shall be limited to turnouts into branch canals. All crossings
of rivers where the Narmada Main Canal shall be confined in a
structure shall incorporate multiple barrels or channels to
allow deliveries with isolation and shutdown of individual
passages for repair. Gated and fixed weir escapes of limited
capacity shall also be provided.



-78-                 Schedule A
Page 6
(d) Structural designs of the Narmada Main canal along excavated and
embankment reaches up to the Nahi River and remainiug branches,
shall utilize the materials available for construction of zoned
embankments throughout, including clay core and lining base
materials. Excavated rock sections shall be overexcavated,
backfilled with suitable compacted materials and trimmed to
provide a suitable base for lining.
Ce) Roads shall be provided on both sides of the Narmada Main Canal
and as required for the remaining conveyance network to ensure
full and covenient access for operation and maintenance.
(f) Large cross-drainage structures shall be required along the
Narmada Main Canal and to a lessor extent along branch canal
alignments to protect them from flood drainage, including major
crossings at the Heran, Orsang, Den, Kanad, Meshri, Kun, Mahi
Rivers and/or other locations as required.
Cg) The conveyance network down to a capacity of about 8.5 cumecs
shall require design and installation of a state-of-the-art
centralized electronic remote control and communication system
with appropriate back up systems, including provisions for
cableway passages along the canals and at structures and instal-
lation of communication and electro-mechanical control equipment
at structures.
(h) The branch canals shall be lined and shall have channel con-
figurations, in-line structures, and turnouts similar to the
Narmada Main Canal. Their design shall also reflect appropriate
hydraulic transient analyses. The canal operation and means of
control of in-line cross-regulators and turnouts shall be
similar to those used in the Narmada Main Canal. All diversions
from the branch canals shall be made through turnouts to lined
subbranches and distributaries. The distributaries shall convey
water to each of the service area turnouts. The distributaries
shall be regulated to facilitate the maintenance of the delivery
rates to each of the service areas as set for the season. The
mode of control of the gates in the turnouts to distributaries
from branch canals and the in-line structures in the dis-
tributaries shall be governed by the same criteria as in the
branch canals.
(i) Each service area shall receive water through one turnout from a
distributary. This structure shall have an adjustable flow
control device that shall be locked at a given setting for the
season. Thereafter, an open/shut gate shall be used to make
deliveries to the respective service area. Within each service
area, lined minors channels or pipelines shall provide the
appropriate flows at each point of diversion to a chak. The
diversion structures to the chak subminors shall have fixed
devices for consistent proportioning of the range of flows
anticipated or adjustable devices locked at set positions.



-79-                   Schedule A
Page 7
(j) All farm deliveries shall be made from the subminors and field
channels or pipelines. Farm turnouts shall not be permitted in
any higher order channel. An on/off gated structure at the farm
turnout shall permit full closure whenever the turnout is not in
use.
(k) Layout of facilities within each service area shall take
advantage of existing village storage tanks wherever feasible
for operational flexibility during operational mismatch or shall
allow construction of short-term storage in the future.
(1) Public groundwater shall be introduced at each service area
turnout, unless full development of groundwater dictates that it
be introduced upstream. In either case, public groundwater
shall be pumped in accordance with the seasonal schedule set for
the respective service area.
(m) Facilities above each service area level in any region shall be
designed to deliver to the service area between 0.6 lps/ha of
net cultivable command area and 0.8 lps/ha of net cultivable
command area, except in the heaviest soil areas where a value of
0.45 lps/ha of the currently defined cultivable command area
shall be used provided, however, that the distribution system to
those lands finally designated to receive water shall be sized
to meet full crop needs, raising the actual capacity of the
facilities to a value similar to that in the other regions. The
maximum delivery capacity of minors and subminors shall be 0.9
lps/ha of net cultivable command area.
(11) Flow Monitoring, Control, and Communications.
(a) Conditions of water surface elevations, canal discharge, status
of gates in regulating structures and turnouts, and pumping
plants shall be monitored remotely from a designated control
center. Conditions Ehall be displayed to indicate the status of
facilities, and to depict physical relationships of the
facilities in the field.  Audiovisual alarms shall be displayed
and actuated for each site.
(b) Control of gates with capacity of b.5 cumecs and greater shall
be operated by: on-site manual operation; or on-site automatic
operation where a local controller device is set to operate a
gate to maintain a selected water surface elevation upstream or
downstream of the structure; or remote setting of the water
surface that the local controller is to maintain; or remote
operation of all gates in a structure by overriding the local
controller. Pump units in pumping plants shall be operated in a
like manner.
(c) Gates in regulators in al'l distributaries smaller than b.5
cumecs shall be designud to allow future incorporation of the
provisions of paragraph 11(b) above. The initially installed
equipment shall permit the local control of water surfaces. At
key structures, a local readout device and automatic recording
c7



-80-
Schedule A
Pa2e 8
of gate settings and water surfaces shall be provided to
register flow and total deliveries.
(d) Computer and electric equipment shall be selected to meet
monitoring and control needs as well as the operations schedul-
ing and management needs. Standby power sufficient to retain
the remote control communication link to the control center
shall be provided at key sites.
(e) Communication facilities of the necessary reliability shall be
construct.ad linking all sites to be monitored and controlled
with the designated control center. Communication links shall
be necessary to relay information between operation and main-
tenance staff responsible for delivery of water supply to each
service area and between the service area and the responsible
control center. Links shall also be needed among all control
centers in the Sardar Sarovar Project. A reliable looped system
with backup shall be provided tbroughout the Sardar Sarovar
Project.
(12) Drainage System Design.
(a) The drainage system shall consist of a surface network of open
channels and groundwater control wells. Excess precipitation
shall be collected in a system of unlined channels. Drop struc-
tures shall control erosion of the channels. Where base flows
shall occur, the channel invert shall be lowered to an adequate
depth to preclude waterlogging of lands. Where substantial base
flows of adequate quality shall occur, reclaiming such waters
for re-use shall be considered, usually through pumping plants.
Cb)  Surface drainage facilities !lhall have appropriate freeboard to
convey the design storm to point of disposal at the design
removal rate. Particular attention shall be given to control-
ling critical areas of erosion in the channel and to assuring
the safety of all bridges, culverts, drop and other structures.
(c) Where groundwater levels are shallow and hydrogeological condi-
tions permit, surface drainage channels may be used for
groundwater drainage. In the coarse alluvial areas on the
mainland, groundwater levels shall be controlled through agency
tubevells discharging into the delivery system where water
quality permits, or into disposal areas where water quality is
poor. The operation and maintenance organization shall con-
struct a well and surface system sufficient to control
groundwater where private operation of wells is inadequete.
(13)       Operation and Maintenance OrRanization.  Recognizing the type of
facilities a-d the sophisticated oFeration inherent in the water
supply and drainage systems, the operation and maintenance
organization shall be structured, in order of decreasing
geographical areas, into units containing a project office,
regions, divisions, districts, blocks, and service areas. It is
expected that the farmers through their own organizations, wvuld



-81-                  Schedule A
PaRe 9
operate the system below the service area turnout. For such
purposes, farmers shall link with the operation and maintenance
organization at various levels. At the chak level, farmers
shall select one of their members to represent the chak on the
respective service area committee, which committee shall be
responsible for establishing the irrigation schedules of the
water allocated to the respective service area.
(14)       Review.  The above mentioned provisions shall be reviewed and,
if necessary, revised by agreement between Gujarat and the
Association.



-82-
Table I
Page 1
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Priority Listin2 of Work Plan Topics of the Narmada Planning Group
Priority     Study Item or Topic
1.        Rehabilitation and resettlement plan for Sardar Sarovar
Reservoir and other oustees within the command
2.        Water charges (cost recovery), including basis and methods
needed for charges and use of revenues, i.e., volumetric,
collection and use authorities, rate and structure of charges
needed to offset O&M costs and portion of capital costs
of the project (para 6.16)
3.        Irrigation scheduling and steady state systems operations
forecast models based on water delivery requirements to
achieve dependability and adequate irrigation water supplies
throughout the delivery network, includes water accounting,
irrigation scheduling (reservoir to farm)
4.        Hydraulic transient studies of main canal and major branch
canals needed for final design
5.        Determination of distribution and drainage network layout and
design procedures and practices, including prefabrication
possibilities and field and office manpower and equipment
requirements
6.        Detailed environmental assessment and necessary actions for
protective measure for the command area
7.        Afforestation plan for command area, including special use
zones
8.        Study of project related computer needs for planning, design,
project management, e.g., information management, procurement,
scheduling, and other related needs
9.        Management information system requirements (with 8 above),
including administrative, planning, design, procurement,
scheduling, and general engineering data retrieval systems



-83-
Table 1
Page  2
10.        Village service area water users committees: studies needed
to determine organization requirements and management
procedures to be adopted
11.        Communication and operational control systems plan (with 8
above)
12.        Bhal area special use studies aimed at determining innovative
uses for the heavy and poorly drained soils of the area and
related requirements.
13.        Projectwide manpower requirements and training programs plan
14.        Future water storage and supply augmentation options
15.        Study of conjunctive use plans,including incentives for
development of private groundwater
16.        Detailed study and planning of nonagriculture uses of water
17.        Mathematical modelling of remaining groundwater basins
18.        Detailed drainage network design between Narmada and Mahi
rivers followed sequentially by designs for segments beyond
the Mahi
19.        Study of potential crops for increased and more diversified
agricultural output in the future, including agronomic and
marketing aspects, baseline monitoring and evaluation
program
20.        Prefeasibility drainage studies for areas beyond Mahi River
crossing (followed by detailed studies)
21.        Crop water requirements: review of and experiments on critical
growth stages; field losses, climatic data availability and
supplementation
22.        Future command area water storage potentials, including
identification and use of surplus water
23.        Microhydropower potentials at canal and storage sites
24.        Soil surveys and land use - update present surveys,
complete detailed surveys to assist canal and distribution
network layout, and design and provide baseline data for
future agricultural applications



-84-
Table 2
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Desizn and Construction Schedule for the Irrigation and
Drainafe System
Work Started by               Work         Receives
Design Circles           Completed           Water
Ann.  Accum.   Ann.  Accum.   Ann.  Accum.
Year      Cl   C2   C3   Total  Total   Total  Total   Total  Total   Remarks
…---------(ha x 1000) -----------------…--
1985-86    9                 9       9
1986-87   35                35      44
1987-88   57                57    101
1988-89   62    9           71    172         9      9
1989-90   62   35           97    269        35     44
1990-91   62   57          119    388        57    101
1991-92   62   62    9    133    521         71    172                    Dam delivers
1992-93   62   62   35    159    680         97    269      172    172       water
1993-94   62   62   57    181    861       119    388        97    269
1994-95   62   62   62    186   1047        133    521      119    388
1995-96   62   62   62    186   1233        159    680      133    521    Mahi crossed at
1996-97   62   62   62    186   1419        181    861      159    680       430,000 ha
1997-98   62   62   62    186   1605       186   1047      181    861
1998-99        62   62    124   1729        186   1233     186   1047
1999-00         62   62    124   1853      186   1419      186   1233
2000-01              17     17   1870      186   1605       186   1419    Mainland Gujarat
2001-02                                     124   1729      186   1605       completely served.
2002-03                                    124   1853       124   1729
2003-04                                      17   1870      124   1853
2004-05                                                      17   1870    Project completely
2605-06                                                                      served.
2006-07                                                                   Agency groundwater
from nev recharge
completely
developed (06-07).
Note: Rate of implementation is based upon establishment of three design
circles (C1, C2, and C3).



-85-                        Table 3
Page 1
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR PROJECT
Implementation Goals and Obiectives
Date                           Goal
1.  Jun 85             Award main dam and RBPH civil works
2.  Jun 85             Award first of 4 reacbes  of main canal up to
Mahi River
3.  Jun 85             Complete dam foundation work and concrete to
streambed elevation
4.  Nov 85             Award first reach of a major branch
5.  Dec 85             Award supply contract for RBPR turbine/
generator sets
6.  Dec 85             Complete ongoing dikes and ponds works
7.  Jan 86             Award supply contract for CHPH turbinel
generator sets
8.  Apr 86             Award CHPH civil works, including Vadgam Saddle Dam
9.  Jul 86             Award irrigation bypass tunnel
10.  Apr 87             Award Garudeshwar Weir and pumpback storage
11.  Jul 87             Award first reach of major surface drains
12.  Dec 88             Complete RBPH mining excavation
13.  Dec 88             Initiate command area development
14. Apr 89              Complete RBPH Ist stage concrete
15.  Nay 90             Complete irrigation bypass tunnel
16.  Oct 90             Complete CHPH civil works and Vadgam Saddle Dal
17.  Oct 91             Complete Garudeshwar Weir and pumpback storage



-86-
Table 3
Page 2
18.  May 92            Complete main canal and major structures to
iiyagam branch turnout
19.  May 92            Complete dam concrete placement above EL 91.46 m
(irrigation diversions begin)
20.  Jun 92            Deliver water to distribution network for
172,000 ha (Miyagam branch)
21.  Jun 92            Complete high voltage intertie
22.  Aug 92            Commssion first T/G sets at CHPH
23. Oct 92             Commission first T/G sets at RBPH
24. Jun 93             Deliver water to Vadodara branch
25.  Jun 93            Complete main canal and structures to Mahi River
26.  Oct 93            Initiate service and arterial roads
27.  Dec 93            Commission fifth T/G set at (MPE
28.  Jul 94            Commission sixth T/G set at RBPR
29.  Jul 94            Complete dam and spillway to top with gates (EL i46.5 a)
30.  Oct 94            Complete distribution network to Mahi River
(430,U0O ha)
31.  Jun 95            Install first agency conjunctive use wells
32.  Dec 96            Complete main canal to Rajasthan border
33.  May 99            Complete Saurashtra branch pump and hydroelectric
plants
34.  Jun 99            Deliver water to Saurashtra branch
35.  May 00            Deliver water to Kutch branch
36.  Jun 00            Complete distribution network to mainland
Gujarat command
37. Apr 06             Complete commAnd area development
38. Jun 06             Conjunctive use systca fully operational
39. Jun 06             Project completely served including agency wells for
full groundwater development



-87-
Table 4
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
Description of General Soil Classes
for Sardar Sarovar Project. j/
Class 1 ; Lands that have few limitations for sustained use
under irrigation.
Class 2 ; Lands that have moderate limitations for sustained
use under irrigation.
Class 3 : Lands that have severe limitations for sustained
use under irrigation.
Class 4 : Lands that are marginal for sustained use under
irrigation because of very severe limitations.
Class 5 : Lands that are temporarily classified as not suitable
for sustained use under irrigation pending further
investigations.
Class 6 : Land not suitable for suatained use under irrigation.
iJ  Based on definition of six irrigability classifications of soils in the
Indian Soil Survey Manual, 1970. Soil surveys were conducted over the
command area between 1957 and 1982 much of which occurred prior to
finalization of the 1970 manual. Nevertheless data from these surveys
ranged from rapid recconnaissance to detailed levels of investigation
and were used for irrigation planning and for establishing soil
irrigability classes mentioned elsewhere in annex 5.



INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR PROJECT
Reional Profiles for Develonment
Agroclimatic                               Heai       Groundwater                                                      Population                    Present
Region                     Net        Annual       Salinity in        Drainage          Average                         in         Cropping      Irrigation
NLq.,    - - - Name        QCU       CCA L/   Rainfall  U!Rel Layaer   ChaU terq4jgtjcq    HQ dldinL    Puoulation   Agriculture   Intensity   Intensity
--(1000 ha)--       ---um---                                             ha        per Sq.Km.           I             2             2
I   Snnkhada-Savli        253.1     131.0       950             low            very good           2.9           222            84             103           9.5
2   Sinor-Vadodara        273.1     142.7        920             low              good              2.5          231             79             108         35.5
3   %roach-Amod           153.2      95.5       850          moderate         fairly good          3.4           202             81             101         13.7
4   Bngra-Jambusar        111.3      58.9        750             high              poor             4.3           91             81              99          4.2
5   Ahimedabad-Dakroi    295.7      166.0       800       low-moderate            good             2.0           249             68             117         35.3
6   Senand-Khadi          181.7      93.5        630      low-moderate            good              4.0          148             76             110         28.6
7   Dholka-Dhandhuke   476.0    222.3           620          m',d-high            poor             6.4            68            83             102          11.0
8   Limdi-Botad           294.0     198.4        600         moderate          very good            6.8          109             71             101          7.7
9   Halvad-Nalia          268.4     146.4        520         moderate             good             7.0            70             73             103         15.3
10   Viragam-Dasada        344.6     187.3       550             high          fairly good          6.3           105             74             103          5.3
11   aami-Ilarry           191.7     115.1       520             hiRh          fairly good          6.2            93             85             107          6.5
12   Radhampur-Vnr         462.8     255.0       460             high          fairly good          7.8            88             84             106          9.9
13   Rejjr H_ udra_       J22 .9      57.3       40Q          low-high             good             4j             797                           100          6.6
3428.5   1869.4        647                                                5.3           131             78            105          15.5
All regions         i.......    ....        ...
L/  Net Ctuitivable Command Area.



-89-
Table 6
Page 1
INDIA
NARKADA RIVER DEVELOPMNT - GUJARAT
Main Canal
Salient Technical Features
1. Read Regulator                         Located on rim of balancing
reservoir no. 4
(a)  Description                      Five-bay structure with
5-12.2x13.5 m radial gates
2. Main Canal Details
(a) Description                       Unreinforced concrete lined canal
constructed on the contour with NWDT
prescribed FSL at the head of 91.44 m
and 39.33 m at the tail.
(b)  Length                            140 km to Mahi River, 438.6 km to
Rajasthan border
Cc)  Bed gradient                      1:12,500 up to Saurashtra Branch
(km 258) and 1:11,000 from km 258
to Rajasthan border
Cd) Hydraulic and physical
properties                         at head            at tail
Design discharge (cumecs)            1133.00               71.80
Velocity (Cmsec)                        1.69                1.01
Coefficient of rugusity                 0.18               0.18
Base-width/Depth ratio                  9.62               1.68
Base width                             73.10               7.40
Full supply depth                       7.60               4.40
Lined side slopes                        2:1                 2:1
Freeboard
Lined                                 1.25 1J            1.25 1|
'Unlined                                   1/                  1/
Radius of curvature              10 to 15 times the bed width for
(changes in alignment)           discharges > 280 cumec  and I.S.
5968-1970 for < 280 cumecs
1J A lined freeboard of 1.25 m minimum plus a safe margin of unlined
freeboard would be required. Minimum unlined freeboard and increased
heights of lined and unlined freeboard upstream of cross-regulators to
protect against simultaneous wind run-up and transient wave action should
be consistent with results of additional multiple pool hydraulic tran-
sient analyses.



-90-                             Table 6
Page 2
(e) Canal banks
Top width                        8.0 m both sides to support O&M
service and inspection roads
Dowel (Both banks)               An earthen bund 0.55 m high by 1.0 m
top width with side slopes of 2:1
on water side and 1.5:1 on bank
side is placed above lined and un-
lined freeboard between O&M road
and canal section to extend free-
board and to curb road drainage
Bank section (type)              Homogeneous fill up to 5 m bank
height with zoned (impervious core)
construction above 5 m
Toe filters                      None in homogeneous section; horizon-
tal filter and rock toe up to 9 m
height; and, inclined to horizortal
filter and rock toe above 9 m height
(f) Lining
Type                             Insitu unreenforced
Thickness                        12.5 cms on slopes and 10.0 cms in bed
Key                              A 0.35 m long horizontal flange is
keyed into the earth section at the
top of the lining
Contraction joints               At 4.5 m center to center
Escape Ladders                   Just upstream of structures and
staggered at 1 km spacing
Lining Near Structures           25 cms thick with reenforcement
Lining on Expansive Soil         Removal of 1 m layer replaced by
suitable compacted materials
Under Drains                     Arrangement of longitudinal and cross
drain, continuous filter layers and
pressure relief valves where required
(g)  Spoil Banks                      Heights up to 6 m if by machinery and
4 m if by hand; minimum top width
of 1.5 m with side slopes of 1.5:1
(h)  Borrow Pits                      Maximum depths of 3 m with widths
and side slopes as required



-91-                           Table 6
Page 3
{i)  Structures                         pto Mahi       To Rajasthan
(km 140)       -Tim- 438.6)
Total number:                      173              422
Cross Drainage Works:
Drainage Syphons 1/              70                86
Canal syphons                     0                11
Aqueducts                         7                 8
Super passages                    1                22
Subtotal                     78               127
Transport and Access:
Canal crossings                   3                 0
Road bridges                     69               230
Railway crossings                 5                14
Subtotal                     ?7               244
Regulating and Control:
Main canal headregulator           1                1
Cross regulators                 10                28
Headregulacors for branch
turnouts          8                18
Escapes                          (4) 2/             4
Subtotal                     19  -             51
Head Losses (per structure)
Bridges and Super passages                  0.010 m
Cross regalators                            0.075 m
Major drainage syphons                      0.100 m
Aqueducts and canal syphons               As designed
1/ Four of these structures are large syphon aqueducts.
2/ There are four escape structures up to the Mahi crossing, three of which
are combined with cross-regulator and head-regulators; and, one of which
is combined with a head-regulator only.



-92-
Table 7
INDIA
NARNADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
Cross-drainage Structure Design Flood Criteria. Methodologies and Procedures d
Bases for Design Flood Determination
Area (Sq.km)     For Waterways      For Foundations      MethodoloMv
0-26            100 yr.          100 yr. + 30Z       Rational & McMath
27-518           100 yr.          100 yr. + 30Z       CWC Unit Hydrograph a/
Above 518        1000 yr.          Prob. Max. Flood         ./ gj
Hydrometeorological Procedures for Maior River Crossinxs c/ dl
(1)  Discuss the design storms with meteorologists of IMD and CWC
(New Delhi) to obtain an updated estimate of probable
maximum precipitation (PMP) for each of the major crossings.
(2)  Then use the PMP to develGo  an estimate of the probable maxmum
flood (PMF) at each crossing. Assume this value would represent
a flood with 10,000 year frequency.
(3) Using a 100-year freqaency of rainfall, develop an estimate of
of the 100-year frequency flood.
(4) Finally, use the PNE and 100-year flood values to bracket and
estimate the 1,000 year frequency flood for the design of the
majo= crossings.
a/ As per CWC Report No. 1/73.
.J  Analyses includes: (1) Flood frequency analyses; (2) Rational method
involving unit graph and meteorological studies.
c/  Flood hydrology of major river-crossings for catchments of more than
518 sq.km shall be finalized in consultation with the Director, Large
Catchments, CWC, New Delhi.
These criteria, methodologies and procedures were thoroughly discussed
and agreed at appraisal.



-93-
Table 8
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
Material Requirements
Annual Cement Reguiirements
(Metric Tonnes)
Year     Main Dam    Hydro-Power   Main Canal   Dist. System    Grand Total
1981-82     12,545          -              -                            12,545
1982-83     10,300          -              -                            10,300
1983-84     10,044          -              -             -              10,044
1984-85     11,020          -              -           18,300           29,320
1985-86      8,440          -            63,300        49,050          120,790
1986-87    186,980          -           135,100       112,700          434,780
1987-88    196,330        16,000        170,400       169,700          552,430
1988-89    196,330        40,000        170,400       210,150          616,880
1989-90    196,330        48,000        205,400       231,400          681,130
1990-91    196,330        16,000        197,900       236,050          646,280
1991-92    196,330        34,000        191,000       247,200          668,530
1992-93     86,390         5,000        199,850       332,500          623,740
1993-94       -            2,000        192,150       460,350          654,500
1994-95       -             -           195,250       468,350          663,600
1995-96       -             -           138,800       456,550          595,350
1996-97       -             -            70,700       456,550          527,250
1997-98       -             -              -          226,400          226,400
1998-99       -             -              -          131,300          131,300
TOTALS   1,307,369 jJ   161,000       1,930,250     3,806,550        7,205,169
j As presented in the Sardar Sarovar Project, "Construction Program for
Head Works (Unit I),` by Narmada Project Head Works Circle Vadodara,
November 1983 which is consistent with the proposed 7.1 Mm1
concrete gravity dam.



-94-
Table 9
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
Material Requirements
Annual Steel Requirements
(Metric Tonnes)
Year     Main Dam   Hydro-Power   Main Canal   Dist. System       Grand Total
1981-82     1,635         -              -                             1,635
1982-83       460         -              -                               460
1983-84       200         -              -                               200
1984-85       200         -              -               218             418
1985-86       380         -            1,200             498           2,078
1986-87     7,740         -            7,600             743          16,083
1987-88     8,220         1,800       12,000          1,289           23,309
1988-89     8,220        4,400        12,000           1,804          26,424
1989-90     7,915        5,900        17,600          2,005           33,420
1990-91     4,800        3,709        16,400          1,936           26,845
1991-92     4,320          600        15,200          2,140           22,260
1992-93     1,900           200       14,000          2,928           19,028
1993-94      -            -           14,400          3,918           18,318
1994-95      -            -           14,800          3,918           18,718
1995-96      -            -           11,600          3,535           15,135
1996-97      -            -            6,800          3,535           10,335
1997-98      -            -              -            1,577            1,577
1998-99      -            -              -               915             915
TOTALS     45,990 .1    16,609       143,600         30,959          237,158
jj Includes 30 radial crest gates as presented in the Sardar Sarovar Project,
"Construction Program for Read Works (Unit I),)" by Narmada Project Head
Works gircle, Vadodara, November 1983, consistent with the proposed
7.1 Im3 gravity dam.



MWMAN AIW1 KWELWIEM - 1ILOT
IMTut DILiVR AmS AINAIL FROCI
MIN CMW.
ktilud Colt Tab
Parmter
hk    Cuits                Total Irnclird CeWt1Mews,ic    --        -
(RS NlllI{on)                        M11 mllion)              1s.o
Coast, rare  Iroms   Smarv
H4AS SIU    /837   S79   Total   84/IS 15/16  16/67   Ft//     Totil  Rl  Cxcii. Tax Rate Accmt
"3a  sasazmss  _*-. saaa   UtWUW r s.    *ns * 5355  sumst. 5                   35saiu    aam
Is IYKSTIENI COMTS
As SlWE  I IIWESTISATION                 5.1  40.6   12.2    2.5    40.4    5.3l '0.5  1564          3,7    76.5  O0l      0        0      Sl
3. L2AWiuuISIIu1  I E3ILITATION          2.S  30.!    36,5    5.o    74.6    2.9 3P.    49.3    7M4    97.   0.5           0        0      LA
C. AS= S MM  I  ELOCATION               2L   10s4   27.1    24M0    64.2    3.l  13.        38.0   36,S   915.  0.15 4.15        0.05      A
. CON.TE.II
to INUT                                 -   38,5   313.3  297.6  694,4        -10710  436,7  452,5  m9.  O.S  0.15    0.05              eV
2, LINING                            26.4 109.3  262.3   196.7  584.7  19.4 139,2  362,9  ;95.9  817A4 0.15   0.4             0.05      Cm
3. SnSCnE                                                                                                                                                                          U
ESUllS                             0.5   2.2     3.3     2.2      8.2   0.6   2.8      4.5    3.3    11,3 0,15   0,4    0.05         cm
CVOSS EILUTORS                    10.4  41.5   59.0    36,1   147.0   12.3  52,?    S1l6    54.2  201.1  0.15   0.4    O.OS          Cl
PRINE!                             2,2  10.    33J.    32.9    79.6    2.6  13        464,   49,3  112.7 0.15   0.4    0,05          Cl
ST l  Cot                         16.4  67.4   142.1    ".4   344.3  19.4 11,4   196.S   147.9   475.3 0.15   0.4    0.05            tl
MAN Ci,.                             -  10,9  153I0   17.7   336,M         -  13.   211,7   259.7  415.3 0.15   0.4        0.05      Cm
OTTR S!SRCTlXS                     4,4  21,9    4.2    43.7   119.1    5.2  27o3   68.0    65,3   566.3 0.5   0.4    #i,0S          Cu
Sub-Total  STITICtES                 33,9 15749   440.4  385,. I.03h,0   40.2 M27   609,3  50.3 13452.4
4. ERVICE RAIS                          -  10.4   20.9   3l,    62.7          -  13.5    29,2    47,6   90.4 0.55  0.I5      0.00       Co
5. OTHER ITINS                       20.9  2.      26.l  1J.9    92n    24o9  33,7   36.6    30.2  125,3 0.15  0.15         0,05      CL
Sub-Total COTRITION                     71.2 404.2 I1 63,0   931.3 2419.7  84,5 5146, 1476,6 1406,5 3,44.5
E, IU1LINSS                            45,9  56A4    6,7    31,3  196,3   54.8  72,7   87,7    47,6  263.0 0.25  0,15    0.03             so
F. EIouiPm                              32,5  43J4    70,5   596   206.0   33.6  4o,1    650    73.1  244.6    0   0,3           0.2       El
O. COMIINCATIONS                         1.1  10.6     9.l      4.3    24.0    1.3  13,l   13.5      6s5   35,2 0.15   0.3       0,2       CO
H, EISIREERIN  SI MINIITRATIoN           9,5  37.7    90,C    77.4   215.4    9.3  42,4   550.7   102A4  265.3    0  O.IS       O.OS       EA
Totl  IIWESTIN  COSTS                     170,4 Me4. WM,72,6 5.135,6 3,312,6  195.9 795.9 1,.77,4 1619 4,557,9
us.. *mas sassan usasia ma*ma   sagas11111 s,a3 V.$ Ins ML:,ina 5551315
Total                                      570,4 634.2 13072,6 1,135.6 3312,6  595, 75.91 M     147/.  5,681.9 49557.9
sm   maas msm  a8ssas Esas-    mrra  ursa: ,rerrnu  rJr.is5  amss 
(D
Juiwrv IP I911   17122
p.  . 



NA1ASA RIWEA OIEW IIPENT - 6SUMT
MlIER IELIVEAltV AND KINAI   mcr
PACK CAW  SISIEM
Detailed Cost Table
Paruelass
Om  Cosls             Totals Including C tincies   -             ---
(RS                             (Asillo  (ES Hilliin     row.
___.,..._._-_--- --  ----------.Coi l.for.   cross   13s u
4/IS 15/16  6/i7 l7/1 Total 84/85 55/66 U8/87 S7/8S lotal   Note  Exch. Tax  olae Ac-mi,
mam*S u 2     sX . 2  8 8mm     114 13111 389883 338J8 OUL&G, 5.= g3r99 trr     #  I_rr 3sX*: amgs;X==ag
lo IMESTIIET COSTS
A.i SEY I IISTIATION                          3.S   5.1    .2      -  14.7    4.0   *.3  5,4       -    IC.7  Oi       0        0      Si
so LMS ACOUisiTION i RES(tTENE1               5i  24.5  12.0   4.4  46.6   d,5  305  163   6.4    59,6   0.1            0        0      LA
C. ACESS RO  I IELOCATION                     0.3  J.O   4.0       -   7.3    0.4   4,0   5.6      -     9.9  0.15  0.05      0.05 
S. CCNSTMJCTTION
i. EARTH  1                                3.4  17.2  50.0  51,3 1220    4,5  222  69.9  77.9   174.1  0,15   0.2          0.05      Cv                                         9
2. LININS                                  4.6  13.9  59.6  948 1721.3    5.5  17.5  82.5 142.8   240.3  0.15   0.4        O.05      cm
3, SBIRIElS
SECIM. FEATURES Of
SMSHTRA I KUTICH IRAIS                -     -     -     -     -       -     -     -eV
OTHR SIRtUClURES                       10.4  43.9  94.4 104,7 25313   12.4  55.9 130.7 1514   15365  0.15   0,4        0.05      Co
gu-fatal SWRtCItRES                       10.4  43.18  144 104,? 253.3   12.4  55.t 1lO.7 1W7.    35d.5
4. SEtVICE  DS                               -     -   2.3  12.5  14.8       -     -   3.2  19.1    22.2  0,15   0.2      0.05     cW
5. OTHI  ITEMS-                                          -      -     -      -           -     -        - 0.15   0.2      0.05      Cm
Sub-Tolal COSTTRUCTION                       11.5  74.8 204.2 263.4 562.9  21.9  95.6 286.2 397.4   801.2
E. DUIDIN@ S                                                                                                  OAS -    015 0 .15 0.05  N
F. EGUIPIENT                                    -     -      -     -            -     -     -      -       -    0   0.3       0.2      EQ
a. COWUNICATIOS A CONIROL                       -  15,3  40.0  Sl.t 107.2          19.6  555  78.3   153*4 0.15   0,3         0.2      CO
H. ENBINEERIKI  I AMINISTRATION               1.5   7a2  19.7 25.2  53.6    1,5   9.2  24o2  33,6    67i5    0         0        0      CA
- --  ------- -----
Total IIESIIMNT COSTS                           29.4 130,0 200. 1344,9 M72      34.3 164.2 396,1 515.  1.550,2
3g3as8 83838 8388 341 88 33888 88333  88ss* *r8s3. - &     t.U  g&LIr&3
totel                                            29.4 13040 21S.1 344,? M,4   343 1W4.2 396.1 515.7 Wi10.2
=32:W1  r.= =       3: z3  v S11125. zx;5=  u: _£.:' S:z: 2853g*1
- - - ----- -_- ---- - ----------*---*-.*.-.-.-.*.*.*-
Jmuar  15 I9ff 17129
.,



IDAl
A   RIVR SELOPHENT - GUJT
WAlER DLWR IMD Nl ATINE PtO C1
DISTRINUTION I NAIMAE SISTERs
ketiled Cost labla
Pat~ert
usa  Couls            htlls Ineluding Coninumnius
(R  Nilalln)                    41R  Illllln)          Plno.
--    . . .................... Cont. For.  Bross   Sumaarv
64/85 85/ad U187 17/U Total   64/85 I5/6  16/87 7/1N  Total Rate  Exeha Tax late kewmt
"Ba  11401 taon  xv"&Rss   noax  ax,z  xaza  max" wasarr naza merrr  &ar m esaxtx
It IWJESTIIEI COSTS
A. SIRWY I IIIJESTIBATION                 Is?   3,9   4.3  3.4  13.5       2.3   5!   6.0   5.2  11.6 0.15        0        0      SI
i. LtIM  AQUISITION I RESETTLEMENT       IO.B  1I.9  56.J  64.4 169.3    12.   22.0  19. 12t.243,5  0,15         0         0      LA
C. ACCESS ROADS I RELOCAIION              0.1   0.9   2.1   2.3   5.4      0.1   I,e   3,0   3.5   7.8  0,I5  0.05      0.05      AN
D. CNSTRUCTIN
1. DISTRIBUTOIO 9sITE
.....--   -.... ----  -
ERITH 1                               _     -  22.6  4242  64.8       -      -  316  64.1  957  0,15   0.2      0.05      CV
LININ6                                      _   3.7  41.1  44.7       -      -   5.1  62.4   7.5 0.15   0.2      0.05      Cv
STRUCIUES                            _      -  12i.  20.6  33.7       -     -  17.3  31.3  49.1 0.15   0.4       0.05      CV
FIE18  C&                             -     -     -   2.3   2.3       -      _         3.5   3.5 0.15   0.2      0.05      CV
Sub-Total DISTRIPJTIN SYSTEM             -        -  39,1 106,4 145.5    -      -  54.5 161.2 215,7
2. DRAINAGE SYSTEN
IASTER I FEWR DRAINS                  _     _   4.6   7.3  12.5              -   6.7  11.3  1.5 0.15   0.2      0,05      Cv
fIEL  DRNAINS                         -     -     -     -      -       -     -     -     -     - 0.15   0,2      0.05       Cv
CONNlCTIVC  USE WELLS                 -     -     -     -      -       -     -     -     -     - 0.15   0.2      0.0S      CV
DRAINAE IIEIIS                        -     -     -     -     -        -     -     -     -     - 0.15   0.2      0.05      eV
Sub-Tot.l DRAINAWE SYSTEM                -     -   4.3   7.6  12.S        -     -   6.7  11.11  1,5
Sub-lotal CINISIRIJCTI-N                             43,9 114.1 158.0        -     -  61.2 171.0 234.2
E. IUIS                                     -        -     -     -       -            -  -     -     - 0,15  0.15      0 ID
F. ESUIPII                                0.2   0.3   0.9  3.5   5.0       0.2   0.4   1.1   4.5   6.3    0   0,3       0.2      CI
s. SERVICE ROAM                             -     -     -   4.5   4.5        -                  -  6Y   6.9 0.15  0.15  0.05     Cll
H. OTmER IIJE5STEIU  COSTS                  -     -  10.0  12.1  22.1        -     -  14.0  18.3  32.4 0.15  0.15      0.05     OIC
I. EI61NVERIII6 I MlINISTRATION             _         3,5  9.1  12.6               _   4,3  12.2  16,5    0      0        0      IA
Total INYESINEIR COSTS                      IJ.I  22n.  121.0 233J 389.4    15.6  2.4 169.0 352.6 566S 1
38on"3838"3a8"; ;3s" or.X.,  ritt383 to~ 33a 33838 313388ai 3838
Total                                        13.1 I I2 121.o233. ;389,4    15.6  206 169.0 352.6 56641                                                                  N
3834  1~..3  38343 3J.*8       .v. 138   UW....8 ... 3A3  338



IWWU RIVER DELDOPNI - WUJAUT
MlAER EI IERY AID DRAIW6E FROECT
TRAINIIN  I TECHICAL ASSISTN1CE-CAWL I 81STR91
Detailed Cost Table
Para.tatn
hais Costs            Totals Includiri  Contin*ndeus  Totls Includirn  Contld       er  ----   ----
(A  NlIllimn)                   (86 million)                    (U§S Hillion)            P1w.
------  -------"------ ----------------------- -------------------------  Cont hFur.   Gross   Suar,
84/85 95/86 86/87 87/86 Total  84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total  84/85 Birl/8  86/87 87/88 Total Rate  Exch, Tax Rate kchmt
USSAWX B1121111*rae  *attan  xx -arnas  tSta Nazar fr 9-gC:w rx&?r Arr rur   amass mamas ranrnl 88841D tm rau 11r tt.s-V sr g asSlUrr z=_Uttat
l. II.T T COSTS _.
A. TRAINING
ENJIROIT                    0.2   0.5   0.5      -   1.2     0.2   0.5   0.6      -   1.3     0.0   0.0   0.0      -   0.1      0   0.6       0.2      IN
DES6IN I CONSTRUCTION       1.2   1.2   1.2      -   3.6     1.2  t.3   1.4       -   3.t    0.1   0.1   0.1       -   0.3      0   0.8      0.2       TN
OPERATION t IIAINTEWANCE      -   0.I   0.6      -   1.2       -   0.6   0.7      -   1.4       -   0.1  01       -   0.1      0   0.9       0.2      IN
Sub-Total TRAINING              1.4   2.3   2.3     -   6.0      1,5   2.5   2.7     -   6.6     0.1   0.2   0.2      -   0.6
s. TECHNICAL ASSISINICE        0.8   2,6   2.6   2.6  8.9       0.9   2,9   3,1   3.4  10.2      0.1  0.2   0.3   0.3   0.8        0   0.0       0.2      TA
Total INWSTNENT COSIB              2.3   4.9   4.9   2.6  14.6      2.3   5.3   5.6   3.4  16*      0.2   0.4   0.5   0.3   1.4
33m3m   a am3ss rma3s3 s 3333 333 3 a cux 3 ara. r t1a ta 3833 33 t33  t1.38. 1AIS33  5atttht r15v53 3a138r 3333
Total                               2.3   4.9   4.9   2.6  14.9     2.3   5.3   5,8   3.4  16.8      0.2   0.4   0.5   0.3   1,4
as&" *a"s =an ,|aaa *rut *sax  autatt 5,ara11 sarwn rroustt  azoar  attartet *tmara aamst  Bases *ttattat
January 1, fflM 17131
,.,



0lAM RIYER KVELO(NEN  - GUMAT
WAlER DELIUY tN  DRAINAE PROJECT
Suar Account bh ProJect Cowmonent
(RS HillianI
IRAINIII I
IECHNICM               phsical
DISTRIUJTION I ASSISTACE -           Cantinmncin
DRAINA6E      CANAL  
MAIN CAAL  MICE9S   SYSTEMS         DISTRIBUTION  Tutl       I   Awmt
iaauaauUuu  mauzau  czua-ausam   = *suuaxrmr:r ?raaff mu   at.. 82:ina
1s INESTIENT COSTS
A. SOMY I IMST16UATION                     60.4. 47                   3.5            -    686   10.l    9.5
1. LMO ACQUISITION I RENUILITATION         74.6      46.6          IU.3              -   289.5  12.9   37.4
C. ACCESS BUADS I AELOCATION               64.2       7.3             5,4            -    77.0  15.0   11.5
3. CIVIL  ORKS                          24697       562.?           162.5            - 1195.1  15.0  479.3
E. JUILDINGS                              196.3         -               -            -   196.3  15,0   29.4
F. EQuIPIENT
1. CONSIRLCIION                        206,0         -            5.0             -   211.0   0.0    0.0
2. GENER^ATIN
SuI-Total EOUIPIUIT                       206.0         -            5.0             -   211.0   0.0    0.0
a. COENIMICATIONS                          26.0    107.2               -             -   133,3  1S.O   20.0
H. OTIER INlHSTIUNt COSTI                     -         -            22.1            -    22.1  15.0    3.3
1. E161IEERIN6 I AMINISTRATION            215.4      53.6           12,6                  281.6   0,0    0.0
Jo TRAINING-                                                           -           6 .0     6.0   0.0    0.0
K. TECHICAL ASSISTAEE                         -         -               -          8.8      6      Go 0.0    0.0
Total IMSTMENT COSTS                      31312o6      M.4            389.4          14.0 4WI09.1  13.t  590.5
Total AASELINE COSTS                        3.312i6    792.4            389.4         14.8 46509.2  13,1  590os
fiiuical Continidt                         426.9    107.7             55.8            -   590.5   0.0    0.0
Price Contiencigs                          818.4    210.1            120,9          2.0 I1I15.4  11.Y   134.4
~~~~~~~~._ .............. . ___._._...........__ ..... _.. _   
Total PROJCT COStS                          4,557.9  1211042           56.1           16.8  6251.0  1.6  724,9
3333E" 81W.t*AIuI amumjmemuawea uIas 3ga :sI3 3S23S             3
Taxn                                       26122      71.2          1I.3            3.4   351.1  10.6   37.1
Foasin Exchdwe                           1,365.1    332,4             66.0         13.4  177698  12.1  214.4
Janwuar  ft 2I5  127133                                                                                                                       .;



]MIA
IWW RI11 IMPIET - 6LIMAT
UAt BEIWIRERY An IIAIEM   PIUC
Smari Accounts b' Vtot
lose Costs
IRS million)               arsJin Exchand
84/35  5/86  86/87   37/86  Total       I     Amomt
=3    lnx    "aX3XX  J:=z2g  =-.-.=    T.E:   Z2Sg=
I. IIPESTII COSTS
A. S RWY I INHSIIBATION                 10.5  49,6   22.       sa.    not       0.0       0.0
O. LANS ACOUISITION A EIILITATION    19.0  71.9  I0411   I3.3   289.5           0.0       0.0
C. ACCESS ROS I  lLOCATION               3.1  14.4    33.2   26.3   77.0    15.3         11.7
3. CIVIL  MRKS                          89   479.1 1.313.0 1s313.4 3,195,1    34.6   1,104.3
E. UJILIINGS                            45.  56.4    62.7    31.3  116.3    17.2         33.8
F. ECOIPEINT
1. CONSTUCTXION                      32,3  43.7    71.4   63.1  211.0    33.2         61.9
2. GQEIATION
Su-Totll COUIIPtNT                      32.8  43.7    71.4   U3.l   211.0   33.2         69.9
Go COIIIICATIONS                         1.1  24,2    49.3   36.2   133.3    31.6        42.1
H. OIltR IWESTIENT COSTS                   -     -    10.0   12.1    22.1    15.3         3.5
I.  SIlIhllI  I WHIINISTRATION          10,9  44.9  114.0   111.7  215.6    11.5         32.3
J. TRAINISM                              1.4   2.3     2.3       -     6.0    B0.0        4.3
Ks. TECHNICAL ASSISTAlC                  0.l  2.6      2.6      2.     83.    0.0         7.0
total INIJESTII  COSTS                    215.1 710 1O736.5 171W.4 465091    29.0   1309.6
Total DASELINE COSTSB                      215.1 79110  .7365 1716.4 4,509.3    27.0  1#301,6
Ptsical Contirlncln                      24.5  ".    234.5   230.2  590.5   30.4    571.3
tPile Cmti nu                              .5 103t3   425,7   614,0 1151s.4    25.0    217.9
Total MJACI tOl1                           24S2 "],I 2344323 23580.7 Av2SIO    No'.4   1773638
'I"
Taxm                                     16.2  34.3   136.3   141.3  351.1      0.0        0.0
oreOir. Exca                             U6.  265.?  711,2  736. 1776.3          0.0       0.0
tmwarv 151 IM    1713t



ISIA
NI1uM Kivu       uriu  - etwT
ATER EIRIY NMS WE PROCT
Saur Accmats bw Year
Toahl IrlWird lCtinuwifs
Its lillim)
W65S 66   U/87  67198  Total
I. INOSIDIT Cars
A. SMEYI aINSTI ATION                 12.1 61.9   30X.  8.9  113.8
to LA   MouISITION I  MLITATOl   22.3  0.4  145.0  1431   400.7
C. CCESS MGM  I OCMATIOW               3.7 1f.l   44.6   40.0  106.8
l. CIVIL  MS                         106.5 612.5 1824.010 63.8 4P526.7                                            0
E, MILDINU S                         54.3  72.7   17.7   47.4  263.0
F. ECUIPIOT
1. COlSTRWTIOI                    33.9  48.    9.1   82.7  251.1
2. EErA1r1
Sub-Total EWJIPIEN                   33,8 48.5   6s.1   827  251St
B. COIlICATIONS                       1.3  33.4   69.1   84.68  18.6
H. OTMER INSTr  COSTS                   -    -   14.0   18,3   32A4
I. IUIRINS I AMIWISTATIWID           11.4 50.5  13X.2  148.1  349.2
J. TRAININS                           1.5  2.5    2.7        -    6.6
Ks. 1C0ICAL ASSISTNIM                  0.9  2.9    3.1    3.4   10.2
Total IWNESTNW  COSTS                  248.2  3". 2448.3 2,560.7 6r2510,
Total  OCT COSTS                        246,2 93,9 2v448.3 2560.7 6P251.0                                          s
:az  2z: : =       5a:_: ::zgm
Janury 35, 199I 17132
9....



'ml.
NWWZA uIWi KEWLUI  - WJMT
WAlEIt EIMI IE NO 011116 MJCI
Projct Cowonmts by Year
IR Nillion)
Total
isa Costs
(US$
84/85 85/86 86/87  87/88    AS   Nillion)
338=3= I--- 3---- 2?:r      r-r: rs
A, NAIN CMW.                                             170.4 6J441 1,372.6 1.115,6 3,312.6   27)60
3.0  M1S9                                                29.4 130.0  281.1  344.9   M.         66.0
C. SISTRIITION I    INAME SY3118M                        13.1 22.1  121.0  233J3   389,4    32.5
. TININt   I TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - CNW  8 DIStRIBUTION(   2.3  4.    4.9    2.4    14.6        1.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      215.1 791.0 178165 1.716,4 40509 1    375,8
Ffsical Continjneius                                    2445 n 6  236*1  230*2   590.5    49U2
Price Continmneius                                       8.5 103.3   25.7  614.0 1,151.4    96,0
Total PICT COSTS                                          248.2 993.9 29448.3 2UO6.7 6,251.0    Me0.9
Toxes                                                   16.2 54,8  136.3  143s8   351.1    29,3
Foreign Exctumhe                                        62o8 265.9  711.2  736,9  1,776.8   148.1
Totals Includird Cmtilngecs    TOtals Including Continencies
(Rs Million)                    1315$ Million)
84/85 85/6 8/8?  87/U8 Total    8U4/8  85/86 96/87 07/91  Total
_33  _3  amasmu   L :&# _3   88. 3a   :58383-2
A. MAIN CANAL                                           195.9 795.8 177.4 161.9 4,557,9   16.3 '66.3 156.4 140.7 379.8
C.  STsIitO] A4.3                                                .2  196.1  515.7 1I110,2    2.9  13.7 33.0 43.0 92.5
Co DIST11I11101 I 11"E SYSTEMS                           15,6  28.6  169.0  352.3  566.       1.3  2.4  14.1  29.4  47.2
3. IAININS I TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE - CAW. I ISTIIUTION    243  5*3    5.8    3.4   16.3    0.2  0.4  0.5  0.3  1,4
Total PRCT COOTS                                          24.2 M.t 2441.3 2.50? 6.251,0   20.7 8243 204.0 213.4 520.9
Jaiuw   15. IS  17133



INDIA
NAP$ADA RIVIR DRVILOPHIN?T -  UJART
WATER ICLIVYEY MND   *INAC  PROJECI
............ .................................... 
Estimaltd Recurrent O Atillone  flalnienai.ee and flfwiv Costs (gi  IlIIon)
..................................................................................................................................................................... .......................................................................................  
1985-1966       191o      1987 3    1,89       1990      1991      1992      1993      1194      1995       1996      1997      19918     19p       2000      2001      2002       2001      2004      2005 2006-2034
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
IIPLEKNIAIION  SCHEWLE (in  hoiusand ha)
........................................
Not CCA Work Copleited                                                   -       9.0      44.0    101 0    172.0    261,0    alE.0    521.0 ,        6a0o    041.0   1047,0   1231,0   1419.O   1605iO   1729.0   135130  1870,0                     -         -            -
Neot CA Irrited                                                                     -                                  572.0    269,0    388.0    521.0    610,0    861.0  100710  1233.0  1411.0   1605.0   1721.0   1853.0  1170.0                                   -
ESIANISIHNEMI COSTS
...................
projecl Office                                                                     -       0.1       O.l       0.5        0.l       0.2       0.2       0.3       0.4       0.5        0,6       0,0       0.9       1.0        1.1       1.2       1,3       1.13         13
Regional offices                                                                                               D -  -  0.4  0.9     I,4       1.8       2.4       2.0      3J2         3.B       4.2       1.6       5.2       54        5,4       5,4        5.4         5.4
HC Div. I Dist.  Offices                                       -         -       0.2       0.3       0,6        1.3       1,9       2.4       3.2       4.5       6.0       6.9        9.2       9.9      20,       II.J      11.9       127.     13.1       13.3        13J8
Division Offices                                                         -         -       1,6       5.4      10.8      21.6       32.4      43,2      54.0      64.8      15.6      86,4      97.2    500,0    121,6    129.6    129,6               129.6    129.6    129.6
District Offices                                                         -         -          -      7,6      14,2      32,4       54.0      75.4      91,2    118.3    1401   4  1M2.0    17192    139.0    205.2    211.7    218,2    21282    21812                  218.2
hock  Offices                                                           5-                   -       54       16.2      324        43.2      54.0      64,3      75,6      92.9    108,0    124.2    140.          12566    17782    1851          5 ,3    156 12858     185.1
Plant Operetions                                                     -        -          -         -         -         -         -          -              -      0         O1 0.1     01        0.2       0.2       0.3       0.3       0.4       O.5        0.5        05
COM(IIClATIONS/CONlhIR  COSTS
...... ...... ..................
1ater Convew ce                                                       I2O        1.3       1.6         ,6      4.9        4.9       7,5       O.i      11.2      i112      14.9       17.5      20.5      20.1      22,4      22,4      22.4      22,4      22.4         22.4
iVELL IMIINIENAHCE COSIS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
.....................I
ConEiunclive Us  Weils                                                                                                                                  O -  -   -  -  -  -  .  0.3  0.9  126    2.7       412       6.0       8.0       10.0      11.9    1531          140
Drainjie  Wels                                                                                                                                                             l0.        0.1        0.2       0,3       045       046       0,9        IS0       1.l          1.2
......... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ......... ....... ......................................................................................  ............ ... .......  ............... ... .....,  ...............   
Total DIO   Cost                                               -       2,0       5.5       3.7      20.7      49.9      94.2    141,0    WI7l         2 234      B 20.?    335.6    389J       il377    471,5    531,2    575.4    5U6.5    509.0    591.1              592,2
EDINY COSIS
............
Coawunicat Ions                                                                                                 O i l *   0.2  0.5  0.2       0.3       0.4       0.4        0.6       0,7       0.        ISO       1.2       2J3       5.3       I3J       5.3          1.3
Con.kncllye Use Wells                                                    -          -         -              -              -                    -      0.4       2.1        6,3      11.9      19,5      30,6      44,1      53.9       73,9      late      9516       103I 0
rtsinose Wells                                                 -         *          -         -                   -         -          -0.                        0.3        0.9       1.9       3.5       5.0       7,1        9.5      11.3      1140      15,4         16.6
Saurashtra *ranch Lift                                         -         *          -         *         *         -          *         *                             -         -                69,5    104.2    225.0    539,0    139.0    13190    139.0              139.0
Kutch   ra(ich  Lift                                           .            .          .      .         .         .          .         .                                                            -      2.0        3,6       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0          4.0
....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ......  ....... .....    ..... ........ ....... .... .. ........ ....... ....... .......  ....... ....... ........... 
Total Enerty Costs                                             -         -                                     Ot0        o.l       0.2       0.3       0,9       2.6        7,9      14,5      93,5    142.9    181.0    21226    230,0    245,1    255,4              263.8
..7.... .... 
lOI. AMA   CosiS                                               -       5.0       1.5      3J7       20.7      50.0       94.3    141,3    118,1   235.5    283.0    343.4    403.9    530.8    621.5    719.1    M1183    01.6   3134.9    846,4                        86.0
a..as;a  sauagug saao aasa             g :suauss Basnan   asmu mes sa a..u1a. ..4.a1a  mas   u$X a ust   liass azs1     agz as usa s $asasa$a ss ua u   -.;uaa    Iaam 11118ag1g3  sma.I lIlISU$l 1a131140 11I
.......................................................... ...................................................................... ..................................... ".................................................................................... ,.........................................
Wceabr lv   1904   10125
'-
0'
'I



-104-                            Table 18
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMNT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule |
(US$W)
IDA Fiscal Year and      During
Semester or Quarter     Semester             Cumulative
1985
Last Quarter          1.3                   1.3
1986
1st Semester         10.0                  11.3
2nd Semester         22.3                  33.6
1987
1st Semester         37.0                  70.6
2ud Semester         47.3                 117.9
1988
1st Quarter          32.1                 150.0
if  Not based on country or sector disbursements
profiles because the project disbursement profile
is unique. The project is for a three-year time
slice of a much bigger program and the rate of
expenditures will still be climbiug when the
time slice has expired and disbursements have
been scheduled so that the credit funds will be
exhausted in the first two and a half years.



-105-
Table 19
NARMADDA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Credit Allocation
Category               USS M
Civil Works             148.10             60Z of expenditures
Training                  0.55             100%
Technical Assistance      0.85             100%
Unallocated               0.50
150.00



-106-                      Table 20
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
PROJECTED CROPPING PATTERN FOR SSP COMMAND
CROP                 IRRIGATED        RAINFED        TOTAL
.......... /' of net CCA  . .
Rice                             10.9             0.0          10.9
Sorghum (Kharif)                  5.4             6.4          11.9
Sorghum (Rabi)                     .7              .1            .8
Pearlmillet (Kharif)              7.6             5.6          13.2
Pearlmillet (Hot season)          3.5             0.0           3.5
Wheat                            22.3             1.5          23.8
Pigeon Pea                        1.6              .8           2.3
Other pulses                      3.6             3.3           7.0
Mustard                           2.7              .4           3.1
Castor                            2.1              .5           2.6
Groundnut (Kharif)                4.2              .8           5.1
Groundnut (Hot season)            o.2             0.0           3.2
Vegetables                        4.0             0.0           1.8
Chillies                           .4             0.0            .4
Tobacco                           2.4             0.0           2.4
Cotton (medium staple)           24.4             0.0          24.4
Cotton (short staple)             0.0             6.8           6.8
Sugarcane                          .5             0.0            .5
Fruits                            2.3             0.0           2.3
Fodder (Lucerne/Sorghum)          4.1             5.0           9.1
All Crops                       106.0            31.2         137.3



-107-
Table 21
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
Present CroDrint Pattern in SSP Command
(average, in percent of net CCA)
Crop                            Irrigated       Rainfed      Total
Rice                                .6            2.5          3.1
Wheat                              3.2            4.8          8.0
Sorghum                             .2          12.5          12.7
Pearl millet                        .6           15.4         16.0
Pigeon pea                          .1            3.0          3.1
Other pulses                       0.0           3.7           3.7
Groundnut                          0.0           3.5           3.5
Mustard & other oilseeds            .5            1.4          1.9
Tobacco                             .7            1.0          1.7
Cotton                             6.5          30.5          37.0
Fodder crops                        .4            8.1          8.5
Other crops                         .2            5.6          5.8
All crops                         13.0           92.0        105.0



-108-
Table 22
Pate 1
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
Incremental 4Mricultural Production
A) By Volume
Future        Future
without        with         Incre-
Present        proiect       project       mental
...................... 000  tons ...............
Food CroDs
Rice                      49             61            515            454
Sorghum                  115            134            487           353
Pearlmillet              230            277            653           376
Wheat                    181            250           1409           1159
Pigeonpea                 36             41             56             15
Other pulses              35             41            152            111
Total             646            804           3272           2468
Cash CrODs
Mutard                    13             15             75             60
Groundnut                 56             67            310            243
Vegetables                NA             NA           1793
Tobacco                   40             55            109             54
Cotton, med. staple      135            199           1057            858
Cotton, short staple     227            265             61          -204
Fruits                    NA             NA           1269             -
Fodder                  2502           2977           4677           1700



-109-
Table 22
Paite 2
INDIA
NARMADA. RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
Incremental Agricultural Production
B) By Value aJ
Future      Future
without      with      Incre-   Relative
Present     proiect     Droiect    mental  Increase
..................  0   o- ............... 00tn
Food Crops
Rice hl                   115          143         1208      1065       748
Sorghum                   190         221           756       535       242
Pearlmillet               356         429          1011       582       136
Wheat                     335          463         2606      2143       463
Pigeonpea                 112          128          175        47        37
Other pulses              123          146          457       311       213
Subtotal             1231        1530          6213      4683       306
Cash Crops
Mustard                    59           70          346       276       394
Groundnut                 218          261         1206       945       362
Vegetables                 *            *          1543        *
Tobacco                   203          281          556       275        98
Cotton, med. staple       717        1053          5601      4548       432
Cotton, short staple      930        1087           250      -837       -77
Fruits                     *            *           952        *
Fodder                    313         372           868       496       133
Other crops v/            202         233           639        *
Subtotal             2642        3357        11961       8604       256
Total                    3873        4887         18174     13287       272
aJ  At projected farmgate prices (1995), in 1984 rupees.
OW In terms of paddy price and production.
c/  Includes vegetables, fruits, clusterbean and non-specified other crops in
present and future without project; castor, condiments/spices, sugarcane
and other non-specified crops in future with project.



-110-
Table 23
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARLT
Resional Chanxes in Average Net Farm
Income from Crop Production
Increase
Future with-     Future with      over    over
Reg ion         Present        out proiect         vroiect      Dresent  FWOP
............ Rs per ha of net CCA ....... ...     (1)     (X)
1             1166              1403              8147         599     481
2             1733              2310              8744         405     279
3             1034              1246              7158         592     474
4              919              1040              2224         142      114
5             1683              2054             8123          383     295
6             1256              1b98              8432         571     428
7              907              1021             3923          333     284
8             1080              1222              6535         505     435
9             1073              1212             6762          530     458
10              925              1u48              6101         560     482
11              950              1142              3257         243      185
12              868               979              6533         653      567
13              984              1118              6196         530     454
Average        1097              1325              6401         484      383



-11l-
Table 24
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
Proiected Change in Average Incomes
and Land Rent from Crop Production
Increase
Future with-   Future with    over    over
Present   out Droiect       Rroiect     Present  FWOP
.......Rs per ha of net CC.A.. .......  (X) (Z)
Farm Family Income
Gross revenue        2163        2727           1004b          364     268
Non-labor cost        732         966            2594
Interest _a/           63          84             225
Labor gh              490         629            1305
Farm profit & rent    878        1048            5922          575     465
Family labor c        219         277             479
Net farm income      1097        1325            6401          484     383
Value Added
Net farm income      1097        1325            6401
Hired labor income    271         352             826
Net value added AJ/  1368        1677            7227          428     331
Land Rent
Farm profit & rent    878        1048            5922
Risk allowance e/     649         818            1507
Management fee Li      23          23             442
Implicit land rent    252         253            4857         1627    1820
W.===
Project Rent (Incremental land rent): Rs 4604/ha
g/ On working capital, at 13% p.a. over average period of 8 months.
/ hired and family labor, at Rs 7.5 per manday.
S/ Imputed cost at Rs 7.5 per manday.
S/ Farm profit/rent + family labor income + hired labor income.
sJ Estimated as standard deviation (SD) of gross returns x a risk aversion
factor (RA).  SD for present/future without: 20% of gross return and
RAF: 1.5. For future with project SD: 15% and RAF: 1.0.
UJ At 10% of profit and land rent after risk allowance.



n1611114
WAVo mIYEa P.MWNu - wJJaw
PreAct CCwuorpenIt V ia
,,_,,___ ......... _._ ....... _...   _ ........ _.. _.. . ..... .............. --- S
64/fl *6/     66/1-    V/86    6/3    19/91  "09         91/9     03/93   91,94   94195            9/      91/N   91/99  99/10 4 I0/101 101/112 102/10n 1O3/1N 1WIOS 8/0                93 -  --miS
M. IN61 VA41.                                           n63.1 11.  5,7".9   73.1 7).0             fl.5     65.    3053       6. eZ-                              -       -        -       -       --                                     .6.i5*
1. 30D~ILt *01446 I LINK OWt AS                    12.1    1&                                                                                                                                                                                  .4       .
e. 3E                                                 -  124U0   114.1   39,9!4 41 S         9 .2    *11.0    191.2   19.1    9.1         -       -       -        -               -       -        -       -       -                - I.n.$         429.4
9. MIN DM                                         112.1   11,5 1.415.? 1411.2 11644,3 1.41,9  Im.15  1239.9 1.9.    W0.   416.2  Ili.]    33.0                     -       -               -       -                                -   125.   11014.6
I. 6WUXSH    siI                                      -            1 7.2   100.4   141.1  115.4   710.2          -48
F. CANVAA  1       4                               84.4   91.3      1.? 17    . 1 721.1   221,1   1I.U  1U2.0    27.           20.-                        -       -       -                    -       -       -           -             IU0.2       UI
0. lIIIIlSlIS0   5151EII                              -       -       -             22.3    45.1     5.3      54.0    42.2                                                                                                                  221.4     111.
H. UNWIS                                           2 4   129.6   294.9   411.1   12.3   64.m   0    730.0    7A6.1   396.1   We.1  8 9 a       26,6  54u.1 4S312   9.3  304.1 2S 1.4              6.2               -       -        -      "41.0    734
. *istmiUnIa  I KAulw  S1SI0S                     11.1   22.1   121.10   310.1  716.4    03.1  1.246.5  IS70.1 1,671.3 19A.5 1,941.9 2*0171.  13257.2 t1760.3 I849.3 1 121.1   ne41   01u.   244.0  1,3.1   123.2    11.9   39175.9  3,7d.0
J. 9|63Ud9 WIl  348 I 311-1Ass I331               15.4    3.6    30.1    62.9   4U.0    13,2         1.0      1.0                                                                         ,       ,        ,       ,       ,        ,      A7.1 21      4
1t t8         AM A114 K- L-IEM                                                              34.0      1.0.   124.6  22n.5   351.1   41.1 7 54.          4. 00  0.2   See.    453.O   3U'4  JR.4   2i3.8   169.9    901. 5,2.4    446.
t. N OtIZtcOGltcg  Ei11                              -    20.2    37.3       39.   39.5    30.4        -         -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -- -                         -           -        -      11.5      14.6
I. 13INIu0m I 11N1ICA  41511111A     - PA I t04w   J.      3.5    10.2     *.1      19      4.17     4,4      4.2      4.2     4.2     2.4     I.2      1.1     1.2     1.1     I.1      1.2     1.2     1.2     1.2      1.1     1.2       24.0      6.2
11. 1A1N MIUISIIIN  I MIILIMuu         I/          361   I00.17  5132.2    62.9  V41.0   120.1       75.0        -        -       -       -       -        -           -       -            -       *       *       *       *        -    163.0    140.1
_._ ..... ....... . _..... ..__ ....... ..... .... ....... . _....... ....... . .........  .... ........ ............ _. .. ... ....... .... ..... .......... ....... ....... ....... _. . ...._ _._ . ..._ 
total 36St1ll(   cOslS                              33.t 196.6 3t1413.5 4.329.1 51,44.1 51512.  5.104.5  S.32/0 4.P45.1 41185.7 3170.1 3141).9 J05.J 2.75.0 3643.113 h4s6.O 8               .9 9t70.0  144.1   324.7  21.-0    02.1  62.U917  52.70
fr.slcal C0nt4otutls                             106I 4   228,0   449.3  53l.5  60.6  604.3   629.s    62.1  543.1  513.6   521h4  4U3.3   429.31 290,2   429.9   2.9   722l.  139.4   It.?    47.4    31.4    12.0  1329.1  U6.l
Price £"illoitn                                   36.    245.  0U5.1 1543.3 2,383.f 3213    ,M3 9.3  4.,09,1 4o.1 3.4 4inI.4 4.33.  4,1t 31.5 4,60.5 4.l4l,3 3.00   4.431.2 3.701.5 2.47.5 1.51114   11.3 7              00.3  723.4  U5,33.2 7I    4sn.2
Seu ...    s ... ....... ..a a........... .S.... ...s.....  ........ ....... .  .. .. . .....                                      rr                         ar                            a
rtle                                              4.3  23.   214.1    84.6   ;I.   318.7   U3.0   91.6   S10.   505.4   411.4   3694   334.1   341.1  Ju.l   250.2  194.4   111.3  4U.5    31.4    27.1    19.6    6043.9    610.3
rreItsn [ h:ml                                   10.'3    9.s I1.2?U  1,431.5 2,503.4 2W.43  1P3&.3  3,013.3 2203.5 2.106. l,90.7 1,088.3 1.6)5.0 14.41.4 8135.5 I54.0    0.-5    M14,1   299.1   130.    1325    0l2.]  H12W3,5  .04,170
........ ._ ...... I._ ..........,,,,,.   .................................................................  .  ................................................................. ,,,.. , ., . ____......._._..._.._._......... __ __-_._.
Jinwu  II. 11t5  17104
LI   l:omprLee  Ssr,dar Sarowir Jim .inJ r:..,rvo8r oustoetn  rescttlement ald  rehabillLatlin costv   Including land acquisition.
HA
M2



INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPHENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR-DAM AND POWER PROJECT
Estilated Recurrent Over-tion and Maintenance Costs
(Re Millions)
84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90   90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94
Investment Schedule         722       1242     2357      2908      4003      3775    3659   3117   1031    388
(with Phys. & Price
Contingencies)                                                                                                       H
Accumulative                722       1964     4321      7229    11232    15007   18666  21783  22814  23202
Investments
Operation &
Maintenance
Rate/Factor 1/               0         0        0         0        .001      .002    .003   .005   .005   .005
Total Estimated
Annual O&M Cost              0         0         0        0        11.2      30.0    56.0  108.9  114.1  116.0
§1 Based on a rate of 0.1% of the cumulative investments at initial operation
in 1988/89 and increasing to 0.5% at full development in 1991.
m-



INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
PROJECT COST                  (Rupee. million)             PROJECT BENEFITS                           NET
------------------------------------------------    -------------------------------------------------             BENEFITS
Year     Dam and         Power  Irrigation         Total          Power      Irrigation M & I Water         Total
Reservoir  Facilities  Facilitlis                      Benefits        Benefit.    Benefits    Benufits
1         408          409           16O         997               -               -            -            0           -997
2         216          1069          743         2029              -               -            -            0          -2029
3         959          1060         1391        3410               -               -            -            0          -3410
4         1066         1123         1725        3914               -               -            -            0          -3914
5          930         1693         2093         4616              -               -            -            0     -   -4636
6         826           998         2256         4090              -               -            -            0          -4080
7          772         1099         2505         4376                                           -            0          -4376
9         590           762         2fl12        4164              -               -            -            0          -4164
9          302           99         3021         3421              -             159           19          176          -3245
10         123           100        3391         3614            3237             445           l9         3700             9h
la          62            26        3404         3492            3935            1001           34         4970           1479
12          52            26        3285         3343            3809            1695           34         5538           2175
13          52            26        3079         3156            3651            2511          lie         6290           3124
14          52            26        2986         3064            3478            3537          191         7206           4142
15          52            26        3266         3344            3367            4625          191         9193           4939
16          52            26        2525         2603            3345            5494          191         9030           6427
17          52           26         2215         2293            3322            6391          191         9994           7601
1          52            26         1917         1895           3300            70B1          504        10965           9070
19          52            26         1678         1756           3285            7998          584        11967          10111
20           52           :6         1547         1625           3272            8816          584        12672          11047
21           52           26         1491         1569           3260            9772          584        13616          12047
22           52           26         1407         1485           3249           10573          594        14405          12920
23           52           26         3367         1445           3236           10995          949        15190          13735
24           52           26         3375         1453           3224           11314          949        15497          14034
25           52           26         1383         1461           3213           11455          949        15617          14156
26           52           24         1390         1469           3142           11566          949        15657          24189
27           52           26         1413         1491           3071           11658          949        25678          34187
20           52           26         1409         1497           3000           11664         1306        15970          14493
29           52           26         1417         1495           2929           11739         1306        15974          14479
30           52           26         1424         1502           2959           1L193         1306        15977          14475
31           52           26         1436         1514           2707           11996         1306        15979          14465
32           52           26         1422         1500           2716           11947         1306        15969          14469
33           52           26         1449         1527           2645           11940         1631        16216          14699
34           52           26         1375         1453           2574           11976         1631        16181          14729
35           52           26         1304         1392           2503           11974         1631        16109          14726
36           52           26         1304         1392           2432           11972         1631        16035          14653
37           52           26         1304         1392           2361           11971         1631        15963          14591
38           52           26         1304         1392           2290           11909         3930        16129          14747
39           52           26         1304         1392           2219           11908         1930        16057          14675
40          52            26         1304         1382           2149           11908         1930        15996          14604
43           52           26         1304         1382           2077           11909l        1930        15915          14533
42           52           26         1304         1392           2006           11909         1930        25944          14462
43          52            26         1304         1392           1999           11910         1930        15839          14456
44          52            26         2304         1332           1990           11910         1930        15930          14449
45           52           26        1304          1382           2993           11910         1930        15923          14441
46           52           26         1304         1382           2975           11910         2930        15815          14433
47           52           26         2304         1392           1967           11910         1930        15807          14425
48           52           26         1304         1392           3959           11910         1930        15799          14417
49           52           26         1304         1362           1951           11910         1930        15791           14409
50           52           26         1304         1392           1944           12910         1930        15794           14402
Present
Value           4102         5704        17745        27552          11136            19169         1506        31811           4259
(et 12 X I                                                                                    Internal Rate of Returns          13.2X



-115- -
Table 28
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
Economic Evaluation of Sardar Sarovar Project by Functions
Present Value /a      ERR
(Rs billion)         (Z)
A.  Single Purpose Power Project /b
-  Power benefits                                    12.43
-  Costs;  Power facilities                  5.02
Reservoir                        4.10
Total                         9.12
-  Net benefits                                      3.31           14.9
B.  "Add-on" Irrigation and M&I Project /£
-  Benefits:  Irrigation                    19.17
N&I water                     1.51
Incremental Power            -1.30
Total                    19.38
-  Costs:     Irrigation                    17.74
CEPH/weir                     0.68
Total                    18.42
- Net benefits                                       0.96           12.4
C. Multi-purpose SSP (as proposed)
-  Benefits:  Power                         11.13
Irrigation                   19.17
H&I water                     1.51
Total                    31.81
-  Costs:     Reservoir                      4.10
Power facilities              5.71
Irrigation                   17.71
Total                    27.55
-  Net benefits                                      4.26           13.2
/a At 12% *.iscount rate
/IL Hypothetical alternative, without canalhead powerhouse; no pumpback
operation; no Garudeshwar weir.
Ic  Includes benefits and costs of canalhead powerhouse and of pumpback
operation at riverbed powerhouse (weir)



NARMADA GUARAT
WATER RESOURCES PROJIC1
Dom and Powei Complex
Implsmenhlaon Schedule
_,~~~~~QA I             ,_ _ ,  E II   1   i   1   121314  10113141flAl 34   Ila  314   tlsl 2131t 11314  i 2  31   12   314  1121-|14  fp17113  1  2    
.. I g St gX0 lintI In m
1 1                 IM -lAll  I                              959 T/GSIS 911 I1-111  Il                          II-A
_ __.xb~~~~~~~~~~l  II                                             'A      ; i ; t t 0       
o~~~~~~~~~~~o
o e  u ct  _t          II                             1ls
@~~~~~~~~~ ktdCet WA Lt t)                                         110,10wXd Ok (N I



FNARMADA GUJARAI
WAIER RESOURCES IlROJECI
Ir mplmontallon Schedule
COhWANCE. DISIRIIPJION AND DRAINAGE DrElOPMENI
I"       OM      t ,    wist |m  'I'll   Ig            I",    119   *II    l m t  Mt  IM               I"       M  _   91    I"       i"t            mxat      Mt  NO         Im z  MG _
VA A -0 -1-11 11                              w       m      14      14      190     141    It?     993     994      99      96     99 9au99  a)1                          29*     292     304      06     0
t ICtUItOMAtJVHtV                |
Ml.D ,..i                                                                    -Aii   IfA0J,II.0,s.dy
II-W@1 UlSJ    0,0  @4 ''a,,,   _  .   ._   ^,w,,-so I4l        Q't     L *    *1
1.9$   %i. ..vmiS"                                  1       --  I      -- -          - lr l      I _ _              
b^Xil,C,ei,       . ,.,1 I@tiq.9"1,&       l      l       l       l       l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~In   ..C,Al  i
I.I.h.ilkI.-t.iA19 ^ J..,,,Ji414. J                                                                                                                                                                                                          4 e '- - - .'-    l|-- |  -|   |? { > ^>b  f l b  It  |
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.I Ill ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4 A..I1 m6
lHi'^R,':''M:'"''"""'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.11 n inp I Il= -  -= l=l=... 5.,.                                P              I1 AiliI *InI Ib Ii  I~ Ii  I~   I   I I
fvugcl -wil CM14011414101061RAMI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~i.n.i IliinlloniM  IiN??                                    ,ig.iI....i.sqmIM   n  l
*'.iI5,9l   ~lin*~                  -      m      -  .           -- ._2   - S*lilltaliltlfilSttCIJl-~g  I2 -tI4                PA                                      R
iS,..- -1ini ......                                                               ih. A    i... IwI III1--=-1--- 1-'    
I.,i,... I ingA vi.. I....                                                                                                                                                                  I k  L  C   l
I ... II  ,, ,,,,,1  _1  ...........l                                                                                           4_ l _l .1.1 II                                   -'1_^.. 
..... ,, ,,,, ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                                          ,I                           I   I llIFi -l     
DISI RIDUIION,L DRAINAGE, GROUNDWAtER AND COMMA/NCJ AREA DMLEOPfw.'NI I'ROGRAMS5
________________ _-1  1                              |          - - -|-r-r                            T1-=1=_t  r--rr-i=-i-i-----r----1_  ---_-?                                                                           |
psli                     OGAII .,iii ii A1.41,. 1. I                         iii.... I ,1 .Ii.i.*i,, 4.1   ......n it...,.n.isn111..  k(ijnSi.in I. linl *i  8111    I".I9511.169^10 ,1_ 'l.n                      I SUlI3s IA , * 4h.i.. %C 9l .,
c00|gs*at|jj        I   I I  I~    I                           - I           ==-:=t==1                                      _@_--  -1  --  -- - I                              -  '-t             =  -            = 1
|~~~~~~~~~~11,, I i,.,,I i..,,. iU.-h., l.g '    |||i. .Iin .ini l                  ~l . 1 A). yG                     l hA.ii*                                                 -                 VA..W Vii n*
I~~~~~~~~~J^.m . , n S.*,a.in'in,@,, a",.i',.  r-    -,                                                                                                                                                 ................. II-
Irt tj
k.VAA1~S.~.j(hu.q unAlt.i9 iniil.,in4.lnI  I'inlnA* inlJC**AIIiIIi.I9s. .V*i(iign.,8 ~ CwAAtMflsMm



SARDAR SAROVAR PROJECT - GUJARAT
Agency Organization Chadf
RE             REG40 2    | |REGION 3    | REGION 4|
..I  I   Il   _ .. 
MAIN C3  v  [3  CE  [m POWER
DMA           [[S          wf'       1             t  DIVE              AM
DMSM ~    DS~
Nolhs
(1) Only one line d ropoiing shown to exerprifV orgarnialanol slnJcLre.
(2) DMilons A to"wh E are birgaUon DMions
Wold BorH-2692O



Figure 3
Composition of Each Unit and Area Under Its
Judsdlcfion for the Iffrgatton Sevce
Qec     Reo                                         UKEOF
PAoJECI`(I                                                             EACH
Div.    Div.,
REGbONI                 . __s(4)
-D =ho            Dlv.  DXv-
lVUON A           Dist.    Dl
:125A=0 ho                         Dist.          (5 Diicts)            250
Dis     Dist.
t25xC00ha                                          5
.OCIa         | SP,   SA    SA    S4A   St
±5.000 ha                                         (10 lo?ice Aes)        10
St   SA    SA    SA    SA
SEVICE AREA 1                                _    (10 ChtkS eaCh wilh
:tSW ha                                           5 sJbows d-10 ha)      I
Ck   Ck    Ck   Cc    Ck
wbIdc Boa*-26917



SARDAR SAROVAR PROJECT - GUJARAT
Diagrom of Boundories of O&M Orgonizational Units Within the Command Aea
Maln Canal      A     Satcdat
km 300                                        Mahi Rival                     I badgxks    / \Saroval
>           ~~~~Nuirnlado                                WMin                                  Canal              _
(Guiciral Malniland boVornd knm 300)    (Guplcl Mainlanrd Iraxn Mdxil lo km 300)          ( f  Up to Malli River) 
BonDatarios ol Oporatia7 & Maintenaneo Divisions wsill tallow limits dy land served by
branches or will cross lnds sorvod by brunchos along service Lioundarios.
World Bonk-26918



Figure 5
SARDAR SAROVAR PROJECT - GUJARAT
L11 oCommunicatons
Fmnr and Agency Unfts
AGBCYWUK
~~I 1
(2) VmoJ  mon       d1
*"mm~a ngwumv vt**Isc?ivu -motwa'
E2)R*Mmrr-vd"wGvll co        BWv-28-
|~~~~~~~~~~a0ao as neoo   for orcl 03
1 t-------1 I I ~~~~~~~~i |



-122-                                        Figure 6
Example Positon Qualifications and
Typical Sequence o Advancement
POSION                               QUAURCATON
Labow                                  UtWd - Untrared
laborer/9Sall Equirent Optor            Skdlled rth Limited Education
& Tmlriing
Molntnance Mo/Foreman                  AdditIonl Skits J& Traing
Cca  Opeator                            Speciazed Training & Frther
Education
Heow Equipment Opertor                  Speciolized Trainn & Furwher
Education
Mechanics                               Spedoized Training & Fuher
Education
%      PurnpMechanlc/ectriionn              Speciahed traoning &  her
Educafion
DWdctAmistntWtnasterW -                Specialzed Training. Higher
Operatons                               Eduction & EKPeneCO
01t DiscttAssisant Watefnaser -               Speialied Trining. Higher
Maitance & Cnsruction                   Education. & BtMence
imst ctWaternster                       Higher Educotion & Extensive Experience
DiOIsion Monogement & EP9U              Higher Education & Extensme  xperence
Regio  Magemenrt & EPBLJ                 Hioher Education & Extense Eperience
PPeCt M      oagmet                     Higher Education & Exensive Expexence
Noter Management staff ct dsMtct & division level mx adverice to higher apprqdate poions in any unit
UkXrId Sonk-26921



1CW,lWIP.I.0.Iu "o IINvwM.t, 'M.I*             0040o5No IC(0IyO10IntJwy ....... Nwivfl'VA$ IlflilV   I
vgl V.k4IS.. Ig*.iliIIw 0 .wl0 4w"   pp IIu MNlInl.AI W. .IMOpI            100'IPWW,WIOMW)N.
I~~12O I)WO WI                                                       1iv*p.*dfl~~~~~~~~~~  I                          uill11WMNIyiIIIWf'IU 1(1mgo FM
IAI&laI* MI .031 ent1Mv1  eI%f%a  Itg.agnan  WW139 l In 13WWiI.3WIW *                                                                     .111vYIWMIhf0llWu 
111101011311,i An       Nllq,umaIaay                         159Mllus. OIM3A5lNJIWldHls InSMI.mInI04VIMI1.JIS flINlIlflIS #"W-iSOIItI
1  1  91S  1     1  11                                                                                It'Itf"v~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'P   11 m
O. If Iul.IJ  Hii  I5l 3113
1-1-11 T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,jii" Hal  11
V.                                                                                                                                               q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1?117310
I  01      A kil 1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIiAoOS                                                       0:1~illlli35  11!  III 
O' IS~ ~ ~ 'li  l t*tl13
O'SL  fl:i    einlI.Os5m)i"1 pill- lilllifll
019i    9368   I  Oj*3
Ull I I I                                                                                                                                          '7'1;11 Ill 6'?R WX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- OiAIdt  9  3  '"1' 1~      Uls
.1    t                                        IVIII-3v~~~~~~~~~~~~n    P1    ':n    13
lEv A rN7  go)os osv mm
II LYIIYilD VOVfIY  LIO                                            1VNV3 Mlvi IvIiNI
7 7  No m.-                                                                                                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wW~
INHOM liAl2 HOd alnallIx 1N2N3Hfl~ ~~~~~~~~~~~lOHd3
dit                                                        I-T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i iiAm 9  : 
t~~~~~~~~~~~PU NRU



FORA  N0o IO
11-.31
ISSJCUeoIIIMNI OCIILOUI I FOR CIVIL WORXS
caglmA_                 INDI A                                                                                 HAIN CANAI.                                                                                        -   NNHADAMAr 11
*^tU"^iJ,C-I *IBU 11§00                                       NUN14t1                                                                                                 9tUS1.11UUrl_ltl
af     itisio                                                                                                                                                       .   A..                       *      A  V  A                         *      ,  -  . l
t INIIIEXYS&IAXI,A uclbAa                  call                                                                                   L                            I I. '-       r. A 1        II                   z 5   6      I  -al.w .t
Km  21.4 t o50  .2. EXW.                                        Aff.A.Wa.
I In lug  am (IWI ur3M ~     ~         ~        c I"
KmSU. 2  mu  80I. 5,  E.U.                                    ..r
,Kmad  ul.                                           --.:1                                                                                                                                                    I>L iI .. A1J
Kin NO~             IIHa  u   Ira,I E.W .
tOl. I  I^UB . tU  al tIl  Ah  v I ma i.                                                   I *f1 AU
DL*aI                     IlAlla         -      -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~--                                                            ---             ---          
Km, 1431.11 6                     .. ),  1W
AA I' ll ,   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   --   -                         -     -   -   -   -   -   -   - -
Heran-M-1jur   histsvitolvS       ~n ha 
Km       2uAL.CI   .r,..                                         1WUIM'I  tI tM,,JIifllIfiV
Ora.fi.igNSIPAr           SI'lVI ,$I',!g L i.facuI                                          Ad.H  u*A Iuuifaaaaa,ll,,,a   sh...I"l.  l%OWI                                                                                    .,lI AIt,
Km     au*u  ana.1IAs49i.9                                                                                    H~lM    lllaI.,alI  a                                                IhI~~ ..W stIII~w   a,,la.A
*  ,IlalucMAaJ.INIa*  1.6ItHAhIIAIC   tfltAIiI'.IIII11l                                                                                                              Iafltaca   na,I                               ,.llIiC.fIil
C "aCia.MEuIEAIIAlCIII                                                                         Il*IA*hIl.                                                                     J(All~6.I.C,,g                                     amvm
II lIl  AIlII.l~aIICAIlII PI)I{I    1  VA I.ll                                                                                                                       IA  dllas atIlah
a  acIAMI aA  HIC)IIIMIIOA                                                           *=VIIIIIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                   c



FO R  No  0234
___I!UIA  _POCURIMENT SCH_OUt FOR CIVIL WORKSNA                                                                                           CUJARAT 11
.                    E~~~c~.sa  _     ___                        .e                                                                                                NAND B4JAtA  IIB   6    7S
wi~~~o.t~~a.o g.  ,g.  co   _                      _                          r          +r! _  IE~aI   I   I .         ii                fl  -     1-1-|1 1- iu   miI   h I 1E1L*1
Km 0to Ii                    L4CB  4.U9 v. s,1       i |   5 STT -I-                                                                                it-               m So                           -111
K.lrdew, I') to              ICB   5.70  ,v,O ...114                                                                  t 1uo                       8                         0 _1                        1  
Umit Iy vt ON OFcI "P.%     OF   1M.86 11 U
Vjdoshmra Br. Km1ll U       " to 21cost
AI4yfh,uam Brdmmchm
Km 0 to  lbJ .imdKB    6.U9  ~~
1.mmugmro  WrnA.1.1 mnIt
tKm    Br I, 19 t  431 11    5 . Id    -11 "
PiI.aamn     B.o1101                 I         .. *                                                       211   1'                       7
l(. 21 tui 102               LO      28   *'*
Jnmbusar BrLincll            I.19 1. 86
,    11^ I. eo*  n^1~ aMr n.thu * t   OC   W1                  kUtt 1  sr*(^lltaasII@                                                                  U~ -.   U  EOCu"fttl
*  IvkltS pP..m.wes Ih,I.C.{444g                            S m*tuflhI r.g.IW scwlzluillls .Sr...I.M,.r,                                                 t|lg s t
§  "*MSwL.JAI414tNhII0.    rtS4^e-.g0                         I @~I 1v,^t(dflI "zz        51s51,,~e~scmre
* tR^~p~.tt1lt(,IS  so.. I"V  iw~~A ^*U|@                                                                               IS SSt,IR.AS   M*1.II          IC  OACSS
r ACItSA"wAS 0riii *5Ud.N1                                       w.,(.R* 
II 
tk)ra Rraticii  I.(:B~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rl



P 0KM NO g14
PROCURIMENT SC4IJUUL( FOR CIVIL WORKIS
INDIA      _ANII CANLS1                                                                                                           NARADA  HJA _ 
(cll)S@Z^t            wl.o u                         >WV                 gW   a              v  gt                    W .|llblll5illtuulsIIi7ll cost:                                                        U-l1blltoll
MINI 
Sdmkarda asid kanall         I
brondis.     l.LS    3.6?  PSU.UO    -.          J-1. I
...~ ~~~~1-. Ht LIIL                                   ItIi1   X-11:1J1I  t S - AM-AM
PIUP*PCP WII ( FP .OAPHU lDKIXHtIKIPl                                A l|PRtwt OC " VPA                                                                 IN. s;  e0f "|  o*| ^;     OO O  tKU 4IMSNI
D SIONWIP POPPNiAOIIIP POC                                       PIIZOP*PS *P VIC.PPOPONU^"IOI0'OI                      *t ( PI.** FP(.,II             PCI accoc-.rrw.,p
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~| I VLI
- 111. II(PVh,NP rCIrCI00                                                                                                                              N 3111  OPC WM OP%AL
P ISANPPI IA,.APPN PIUP £PCIP(30PINOArCNP C OP    rCP IIl1*sm.P LN PIaPU,Ur.IPNPPco10AL(PP1mv
1. pACtIAP.MC1I                                                am O..IAgo" to hI, WP  IKIN lIPP(r1,PPOCP



roam hO. 19sa
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR CIVIL WORKS
tarn'.',      INDIA                                                                  BRANCih CANALS                                                 PMI  NAP.HAPA CUJARAT  11
0*  ulIwagIu~  ~ ~ a
Hlyaga, Mr.as _ cl_  _  _  E   _li                          C                 IT sI r
H       I 84.11'10                                                                            -                           -              .                   *                 U       =              -                    -
Hiaknm Brianich         
Doris__ Brsnh                            AIW-UO            ' -. -                                                                         %1.  --T '- .1- --   1pT gTt L                                        tE t
V adod Ba toZ^w^4% -St        o  antis^fi"<  oUt1teu1  rsIue                                                                                          e    u1              t       o     I
Km ii) to) 10
Jumbuor Biranch
O f "lDUsmntICws SUl                             "tu                   iS"O                                                                                                *-  -o t--
.cI VILf a       OIggiO
o $lFl ggpmOatiUgAIi0* Db.aIg CI lOb^                                                                                                                                      *. *i^tlt4U^H  acco*nsllsZllF^Ul
Ha  dao   a1'.111 OaSA.t 1                       At"--L                  l illiiOCi l
WImiami, avasuauvmAittnI A,opdri*aIwoAlci.1 gas.  I SaCgUARAMI aA Atco.wIagiAla'OI
Vao  a caIReIO *gta &rniIwIC                      W.pOCfalC



FORM No. 0194
II 0UI
PROCURIMENI SCKlOULE IOR CIVIL WORKS
A           _    _YINDIA                                                               BRANCH CANALS                                                   poojCl      KARMADA GUJARAT  It
I.CtO     _9 _                            5                          "6                              *e7as 8889                                                                                      90s
-L'u,a1)  Mdlii  UITS HX f) J                                                                                  i I I
Luw4ffa Braitchi
KCm 3b to  -. L.CB                          3.12   9C         -                                                                                   -
TOTAL                                     3.'4
t.~~~~~~~~- I fu rou 
e .9ACliARAlWg  e.x9a1C%Ul9uI990C9u9* I 11114 .99,1119,.. I@b.U                                                                          *Si .9IIRCAIC9I 90.    a ~ IAo
O lILuAlle^xz P4IJLUC'9  IICI"" I, wi..i.ul_
||o ICA(IftlAIUC4   I 05 91C0901110419)91  Ia                                 * A ,.                                                                                      we    ofl..*r9  1t"I ml
.:c W^uI"^I@"eou9w&"                                                                                                                                                      KG ftl[A,s,v.94AL
1R.kim.1                                                       cow& 1.1`~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q a.00-4~~~~~~~~~~~~
- CII.-'               " t          PSNCVwt                    &CAA4 uAralirml~~"1



**S|w******_ *X;o  tooWa,WsI.ane IV 80we I 1VSI, " 
.2_     ,-1*wW>ffub  *111S1.1%t  l_aszjl w .1  i-_awc*-se   uu .-lv,.InM1.  gO 0vVW V   *
$4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y4
11 tHE mS-RECWiX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NISWt
N10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt~m u 'snquu' 1
IV ~ ~~~~~~VM:i IV"Aa)  VY13 ( 
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _W    3f R" IN §      8§ttj Mtl     _9              i _SEf    _   ''i,,,r,n    -_o>w
SwTrT  I  1,I]   11  I   III  "nil? 1*p  1!    1
-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t -H +-Hlo
I   Li   I   I   1-                          lion   9    -J    a 'm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II-S
H' I    T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I , - P__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~1191vi  ONSVIUQ



too" too
PROCURIKMNI SCHILD'II      O ION CWILOAUKS
'i>',' . _    INIA           __                                     Dl5TBIIsrlOtt ANI) DRAINACE SYSTEKS                                      e          IIADA CUJABAT II
OWN010h at 201-   MoL                                                                                              91calle                                                                              r
___n_t_ ____I IIE
Hlyd.olill BMI,Ch1
Black. WI & ?C                                                                                          1 I I M I
Block bA/2                                      1
Hlygana Uran..lk
110k   bAI &bA/4.
Pr rBar. & u.ailyj ur.
Block.  i&&
V.ad o.jr a Brand.cl
block 9A,j
Kunaliwla Brand. I
Blo kas all It 9B12
Baa.actc,O  cI.iM..I.S-~                                                                                                                                        .~ I-   .teI
* ,ft.kiM4i IW,IStt § tu 0^A D *,S,tS,II,*wA NO.24                   S*&tt, WA M9dAhd  £W*f'.M ,4_                             ta fjR.A*d  SSO.t                 .4  *fcs
* c *.CI1..a.IWcug I  "*Of M 1 pX- OS M1r-A                                                                              |     'I £t3flAI      l,SIoO
o S A#15AUnO"bOMM.                                               I  .. *IWhI*i                                                                                   in10
*  ic**l* CtAI0t*ShAIAStI"s                                          *0A.s i *              ,                  .
cn t14
* SflSUflI BSAIUAiSS*PII Su.OSIft*150450011e64  , **i...a*.o.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ c  1-



troM No  R934
Il-fl'
PiiocunmrINI SCIIWULE FOR CIVIL WORKS
tt^INf    JtWIA....                                                        DISTRIBUtlION  AND DRAINACE SYSTEMS                                                  .aloAte    NARHADA  GUJRAT L .
M11400_                                                                    I1S6              1               , 87               -               AB                             *89                               ,- 90
?Lyagam  Braitct                    LCB                                                                                                                                                                                            N o o 
Black.s 6A/IA7C IlkiA
NIyagam Branchi
Blockoi 6A/2-3-4                   L.CB      3.18    "440.il                                                                                                                                                                                             T.  .~,
Prr BranXi                                                                                                           I:  AL
BIoCI  'iB                         I.CB        .80
UncLy a  Br4I  ch o                                                                                                                                        A ^ '  *                   V I6L I. . IN . . ALL A AN        . L.  . . o
Blc 6C                         I.CB        .65  A"".'          -.    . aANA, N    0                                                                                                                                                      ,    A.I
Vadolara  branchlt                                                                                                                                                                            " . . . AA . A" lt          a         a=
Block  9 A/I                       I.CB      1.45  arluIan   -AN                                                                                                                                            A A             ANNo. . 
*undhcal4o Branch                            l1e 
Block  9  0/1-2                    tECB      2.50                                                                                                                                             A  i       A                        0  NI 
Jambiusar  Braicti                                                                                                                            .-.. . .    .                                      -    - =r                                =           4? 
block  9 CII/-2                    l.C B     2.A8LLcluas~    .  . .                                                                                     *        -. .. .~    .II..,s. *-   *.'     ..=              * l.fl*          -1-     -4 A       . -
Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L   1  ~#-1 t   ~ lSl .  ; 1   
.    5411d  ,1iI5s  I1,                                                     IIUIIIC151 U  ISI #"I"                    PITPIA110"
*Ag534fl41C4 ou OCWIIISA5IDSNI.."I-                                                                                                                         54 5154~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4914Cow liOiJIII00
*  UI.554I 4A44 Of 0OLpA555M1 ASOCIlSIF1OAIlO1 IWAi Aa5 IaA0eA                                                                                       Oki III(04*=4INII4 14554UOU
WAILCIALWA4 I 0   S La  .i                                           1  *aag.uc



INDEX OF AREA UNDER CROPS IN GUJARAT
(Triennium ending 1969/70  100)
140                                                             C
Cotton                                     CCa
120  /  \                           ** '*.       ,' .0Oi lsQeds
U F  ;  X; Tffi  t  X     X    ~~~~~~~~Al Crops
90
80                          7                       Foodgraine
7o.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
80                          /
70jt.1_1- 8     --"- u
'       ~~70   71   72   73   74   75   76   77   78   79   80  81



INDEX OF CROP YIELDS IN GUJARAT
200                            (Triennium ending 1969/70   100)
ISO.
IN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  9
1  .
120 |  )      {Ak          /            ~~~~~Fcodgrains                                       N
|) p    ,         9,,         __ _,/  ~~~~Cotton
60':,
^~~~~~~~~~~~~     9
.~~~~~~~~~~~ ,
40                         __  L  .i                                                       Y. L_.. _  Li..^ ...... _ . Ycr
70    7 1    72    73    74    75    76    77    78    79    80    8 1



INDEX OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION IN GUJARAT
(Triennium ending 1969/70   100)
240 -                                                                                Oilseeds
220
200 -...0.....
ISO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
200       .,                                         *. ,.~   9,             i  /All Crops
160;  4               >     ,,,          <y          /,'  ~~~~~~~~~~~FoodgrainsA
160
A  .
140      |      |     x      l ^    X     ^   ... t    l  _: 2       l_    l ---- 
9   71    72      7       4    7       6     7     7       99                 1 Yu
120/97
100
60                    s9
40'-~~~~~~4
40   ~70    71    72    73    74    75    76    77    78    79    s0    81            Year



Narmada River' Development - Gujarat
Phasing of Economic Project Costs
Rs Million
A  Cost of Reservoir
4000 1-                                          - -e\\  -------- -  Cost of Power Camp.
-    Coat of Irrigation Camp.
3000 |-                     /        <    \         -         -  Total Economic Cost
,1  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ i~~n
2000            /
I, / 
~//   .       *. * I
icoo~~                  I.
0           5           10          15          20          25          30          35 P t
Projpct Yewr  I-A



Narmada River Development - Gujarat
Projected Wator Use in Gujarat from Different Sources (Cumulative)
18000
Pr i vate Groundwater
16000
it     h~~~ & without project
14000                    _
L
co
4.)
co   12000
E
EI                                            From en-route rivers                         H
10000                     / 
o     8000
6000
From Narmada River           for irrigation
4000
2000
05O10                 -       - - -        -             for M&I use
l iICc 1t 20                                    25          30      3Y5ar
Project Year



Narmada River  Oevelopment -  Gujarat
Buildup of Project Benefits
Re Million
16000
14000 -
12000 -                          /                 --- ------- -----------
10000
8000                       /          --..,,,,,., a Power Benefits
/------ 3 Irrigation Benefits
6000 -                                ---   M&  Water Benefits
400  ,' Total Economic BQnefits
4000 - ./
2000  -                  /
~~~~~/a                                  -  l    
00      5      10      15     20      25     30      35     40  4rJ~5c Yea
ProJect Year 
Ul



Narmada River Development - Gujarat
Total Benef:ts and Costs over Time
Re Million
I                                                    -- -    ---,-- -            -…------
14000 -
12000-
10X0 00
.......... Total Economic Coatt
8000
6000                        ,,'  /           -------  - ^ Total Economic SOnefits
O ,'                           Total Not Benefits
4000     ."*'*'*    e/
2D000   . 
,             I                *.. . .................................................
-2000 -
-4000 -
-600                                                      .       ,. .I  ..       ,,
0        5       10       15       20       25       30       35       40       45       50
Project Year   "



SAMPLE DISTRIBUTION OF THE ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
z                                                          X
13                                                        100 I  '  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
12-
90-
11                X                                        So
10 
9                   L                                     70 -                            1
60 ---                                      
7
7 | sol I I I lld'lTTX~~~~~s
4~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
4                                                         30
21WE                                                      20
1                                                         10 
7  8  9  10 11  12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19                    7  8  9  10 11 12 13 14 15 15 17 18 19
ERR (X)                                                    ERR aX)
RELATIVE FREQUENCY DISTRIBUTION                            CUMULATIVE FREQUENCY DISTRIBUTION
(- - - - - - normal distribution with some
moon and standard deviation as sample)   I



, .... .     .
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a                                                .~~~~~~~~ 
--                a.             .,;                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J



IBRD 17691
JANUARY 19U
I N DI A
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
COMMAND AREA
JTHA                                                      PROJECT ONGOING COMPLETED
>,,. iPoosp===   Cc-   Cl    Dam  Sites
XiE{1 SE--FS/> \> f Major Command Areas
-           X,i,d / /j                       __
AHjES aANA  Ef   (|  /z _                                                          Proposed Main Canal
x1of z&> o-/ y  ;,  X-> J>  /           ,                          -     Proposed Branch Canals
sohesHnoA  R -/                       /                              -    National Highways
7    GANDM~INAGAR7 Himtnagary                                                      eetd   alod
);  tS\I gABAtRKANTH                                        -       Selected Railroads
<_.1.          °'-" ,\~  )~  /   ~ ' 7,,.                                   0    Selected Towns
-    Rivers
/ ~~~~4  "'   ~~~~~~. ~Rann of Kutch
-District Boundaries
G^ /W4  2    /oS>dhro  - \r-.   5oadState Boundaries
- }D  5I!edo-      .           ANCHMAHALS                          ---  International Boundaries
Ae-                           _                         w~dOdOFa ~.   ,~r-   MADHYA
(,< 'tL~-                       P7 ;roposed Sordor S5rovor
X .>¢ / >  G  |  a H AJR U C H p                          KILOMETERS
0        40        so        120
- ,/ 0                                                                              20       40   t 0         80
Su            =              ~              %MILES
,- ,<ci;F   ; DAGS.t
_!PAKISTAN
Vals.d  VALS                                                                         BANGLA0ESIH(
WUN > t_ + -20@ -- >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) I N  D t A                                  2Cr
',To 8owhoy  ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~                      10'20
- { ~rO Bombay 
" SRI LANIKA
70'            ''/             90
_______________________________________________________________________9_ 



740                                        76-
I N D IA
0                   100                  200
0,                 100                  200              NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPA
KILOMETERS                                                     BASIN  PROJECTS
PROJECT:                                   El I
Sardar Sarovar Dam Site               D1 Di
-<-     Main Canal                                Ri
Branch Canals                      (    j B-
ToPI,                                        Ci-'  Proposed Darns                              St
-ff  ,r            ;                         ---Main Canal Under Construction            , .,  Rg
24                   '
- -St
V.
\,r -<--  In>-
Mahesonaj'        MESNWA                                     p
St      ,P5g1Himotnogor            ,/E                       s
WARAK  -^ 3A-- -A 
Ahmedo~~~~~~~~~~~
Ahmedaiba7                                                                                                   _ - < .od-  >g\ 0 Bhopt-
4,0
~~~~~-.                                                     ,-/                                       tA>N  _    O   
- - 0 1Bharuch 55A*OA _-~~~-                                                    -  *HHt -
AO           t 
JOBAT              MAN                          IVO:7476ARMADA
-*      - ~Bhoru h   SAROR
SARO VA                                                            CHHOrA
BEDA         A WA  ,
KKRAPAR'       
I  -     T~o Akholo
To Bombay         *740                                          76*



IBRD 17694
78-                                   *_PAKISTAN   *                              2*
_)   .a  o Map          BANGLADESH,.
AENT- GUJARAT                                                            -L i±2JI A
TS
EXISTING:                                                      - :;;' -                          rv s! Ben.,c;
Dams
_ ivers and Streams                 T
I Basin Boundary                     N
National Highways                   I                                                -       SRI LANKA
State Highways                     |
!Iailroads
Principal Cities                   |
Airports
80                          1               82-
State Boundaries                                            8                        ho8
!nternational Boundaries                                                      'r2
2411
Sagav
rX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mnl                                            U -.RvP(    \-bir C ' \u?|
_~~~~~~~~~~~~                       .9-OB TO/                 MA N/ X     zlw 
xs o r^_ _o ~~~~~~~~~~JaballsJ  
/  ta    hongae     -   X4C8£8-~~A    SH5ER/                                  \
MOR                              I_ __. BUNE KNbir Cu ,-                                                 hobutf |
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J A
22'~
Da bm o ha Dow nrweps by TM Worm Ew* swcslf ea  hIcr Me couvwiwue of
ft nrding ai ex--&ear fa u gdmrnv us of The VWM Oda and 1' hft1b&W
F    Carotn. ' dwmam    d an Me bowidwu sh. an Vas mw do lat
afld. an lii not of The MVas a* and te b,awhwi Fenae Cparorn. w idgW
a me lega idA of WV ato wer wy a v drs l o aaccetnce of mac bmanes
78                                          80-                                         JANUARY 1984



IBRD 17692
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N D I A         'SA                                 , 
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT                                                                        9pwrIA j 
A-              -
SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER COMPLEX                                                             . A IA               s
-. Head
-~                  " ajRelulolr   g:                          ..z oeguator  .                    ,
:~~~ -~~                 .-          .-    .                                  5,, -- e.anerv .
j   -  .  . -~~~-, r  ~~       _ \               ; ~~  -       -   - I.tmeerenel Sm,.dana,
- _-   t                                                          -.       ,       j7r40
,. '-I 
21'52'-
SnF>pilwoy
0
Ponckmull
A
~. Navagom                                                                      .
0
\   ..
0
Limdi
-                          \          Bohorpholio        >                               Urldeeofouno        - Canal Head
Bokorpkalia                                            F~~~Udegoud  ower
'w\                                ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~0  2                        Rv%e                  o s
Power Hwsej.       \C'
>1         '' I crgaton  dDarn
\21,50'                                                                    yY __vpos. Tunnel    2r5 
!PI!Lemponens                      Ex. slng                                                  f|
Sordof Srovar Dom Complex          Rivers                                                        Sardar Scrovar
CPRockfell DomsI.2.3and4                 River Grovel Bed       Akkalbor,                               SaDom   Scte
Spdliway                       -- - 500 ft. Contour line
LResevois, Ponds, and           A  Point Elevaoions (feet)
CLin   a Chnnels           -        Road
MiMID Heod Regulator                 0  VI loges                                         £          -
= Mcin Canal                                                                                                                       £
-        Access Rood (under construction)                                           -       --
O           5          10         15          20 KitOIAETERS
.~  - - - ,.    . Th.                                             i A  * .  4n,e, - .t70A                                     v
S~~iC. Cfl_  _~ .afladf            -e PS    - 
Gn_ r_                                                       ._340                                                   JA R  IQc  _ 5..



IUN 17693
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-RGUJART
INITIAL DEVELOPMENT AREA                                           4   C
COMMAAND  AREA  BETWEEN  NARMADA AND MAHI RIVERS A '' t
0     10    20   30    40
KILOMETERS
1    /7
I-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~A
Ut^t_\, __
-  _+-          WHe   r                 B~~~~~~~~Prject Feoturest
- -  ept  ev           }            _  ~~~~Sardar Sorovtor Dom Site       :    . Existing Commaonds
zr ~7 IN D I A.- 20w-Narmioda Main Canal    o                                 a...  Selected Cities anrd Towns
*                                   -   M~~~~~~~~~IAojor Branch Canalis  .... Railroads
. ~       ~      ~                            -    Development Blockc                      Notional Highwoy
Arc-jr ee ix r - :- Sn;i Baundaries                             =Rivers and Streams
59c                                           -  Developtnent Blockc
d-lentificotion Number       --   International Boundaries
/_i 'SRI bLtAfUs"sAt wl$r_u no
.'. ~9dd'i  *  ~  to' I].W'w~ -wN as^^e d Then&tb'U  WW ft,    Wa
~~~~~~~~~~~9                                     . Fe   1m of myla '.l  mw.ww o' C0' o1 ay 4'dm
_   709   _  tlO                             >     t    o     d   ID orJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5roo



R
P A K I S T A N                                                                   R_t -
-~~~~                                  ~% x      eAUIC  t            ,
IVASKAIVAZZ.
0                                                                                       - f
~~~~                                                             -                               S                                fKthAeTxXSErk-I.
J ,  sANIAGAR'-                              /                      -.
-'<is-N        -  -"-'~~~~~~ A-f R                                                                     A
-~~~ ;                                                        UTCH          ,; = 
~~~~~~Cit~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -r                                      -                                      *2. 
S    oC    '~~~~~~~~~ w _ / ''~~~~~I<   Z 4                                        11>                        4,
I-  G                               --      j rCu  '-'       *~U     N A--           A2
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    :
KI LOrETE 4
040                so          120
0       74S    32       4A 64
MILES
.~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 4.
This nwp has been prepared by The VAwid Bark's -star exrAwvey for the con wen  of
Ve reders and is exdusieet for tVe ntfwti use oft The WbrfdBaSnk JnW B hnteofnal
- . nce Corporabon The denaionwo sewd and the bounres mvwn oJn ths maop do not
-l k*, an the part of 77 Wodd Bamnc and the InteffDnsl Fmse CoWPratton anri xd*nen
filte Zat stats ofan Jteflitory or aeiy wxwe m    or wceetance of such bouais.
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    -                         



IBRD 17940
FEBRUARY 1964
I N D I A
R  A                                                   NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT
J1 4GUJARAT
Z,P   va,,                      5                                       DEPTH TO WATER TABLE
ANASKANT                  /> 
6't 4n  ,    S-t   s                  DEPTH TO WATER TABLE:
_g  ;y <;                   _- - _ Less than 5 meters
~5- 1Ometers
HA,<>AX f                    h t4;  i_ '                                      Greater than 10 meters
B E               / S >2' 7g 7:s? 
NINA GA R A5A2~~IARKTANYk
--  r3 Project Area Boundary
Ai4h Q4st$                          Proposed Dam  Site
1/  (  ~~~~~~~                           -   ~~~Proposed Main Canal
'ii|sJ   -     Proposed Branch Canals
Rivers
L7.               ' Mahi Commaond                              <<                 District Boundaries
ie Fa ; ~C- DAT4                         ---State Boundories
;-5 --   International Boundaries
Sardar 5orovor
BANGLADESH4/
-       ~~~DAAIf.A   N     --            v>   I N D I A                                         g      o
z~~~~~~~~~~~NI -A                                                      4
-20. 
Arabia' Sea5
tp1~                                                              !S.. -- . 8 ' ....................... RI LANKA
_-' ~~~~~~~~.S, . . ;-  '    '- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0



R  A
P A  K I S T A N 
(  ~~~~'\  ./                         J                      A~~NASK,4NTHAcJ$(
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  t-,  %-_.,  -.   ---'1 r0                                          1
:~~~~~~~~..- . ,-                                                                                                         I,
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   da '' _
..>S - - 9 ai /EAJ/GOF, MCl~~~~~~Mhi Cc
'-x,v / 8 ~~~~~~~~~~A_WAA                                  .        -                      : / 
V42? / *)~~~~~~j   AA= oE!I
JUNAGADH-HIN GAR
DAA4AM-
-                   ~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                                                                        - 
0         ~     ~~0 40           80120                                                                                                        /
I,     ~ 2
MILES
MM map has been prepwedO by 7he VVod 8ar* s staSt exdssrWy for Me _aierce of
v readers and is exakz* ior Iie sWernat use of 7he W* and B*  wU eN                                              4       bmab  i
-o"nce Coabomn. The denmttons used ard Me bourAais sha  an Viis inW do not
-' .oan gm pwt of The Mbdd B@r* adme kruhx  Fnm  Cow"m  rpa%mant
M& legaf stass of aq t efhtry or    endrseen or_ accebnce of such bmicari
-   -    -   -                                      .                                                                                   !~ 



IBRD 17939
FEBRUARY 19U
I N D I A
R  A                                                      NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT
A 4                                                       GUJARAT
,2Ws   S                       WATER QUALITY AND AQUIFER TYPE
*1    7.                                            Water Quality and Aquifer Type:
SKANTHACZ?Q                            ' ,.S S5line water at all levels - aquifer
miay or may noat be present
:*:=:.~  <,,   Fresh water at oll levels in alluvial
k-l---4"    ~ ~ .*.    ~Alluvial aquifer with poor quality water
(Žx~~.    ~               ~.-.-.IV                  in upper layers
-  * ~ fX / /;                              il;h  Sandstone aquifer with fresh water at
4AHJfSAtA/                  I ..1    ij >   ,                                oall levels
- Z &   4  za/   /:i*                         -.   Hordrock oquifer with fresh water
INAGAR t  ,SARKAN
;                                                         ;<E$>--  Project Area Boundary
Proposed Dom Site
-~~  *.~**~~~j.%ib   .7.-           -~~~ <                 Proposed Main Canal
-;fEZ    -;4                       ; <    />LL_    Proposed Branch Canals
Rivers
Mohi Command  fnondi /                                    ---  District Boundaries
c.. ~~~ ~.. ~~   - ~~                  State Boundaries
_~                                         -*-  International Boundaries
Es                              ~~~~~4
A X  g   .   v~~~-SVR 7            .w-
'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sr2 '-,  
- FV>4X§cS'.Z7'' ' (-C //PAKISTAN
DAAWY3    I,4-                                                                   N D I Ai -
:-~ ~ ~~~~~~- -4 -    f                                          20- 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~I :0
SANKA
20~~~~0



P    A    K    I   S   T   A   N
(X                                         /   4    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANASKANTAv,
11  V{,-   Mahelonod/
\GANDHINAGAR 
!~~~~~~~~~~~~, 4. ,:                                                       /B.Th 
Porbandoi                                  \     <   SAmreli                        1
?RAJKO     !  .-               _,      ,     _ 
.                                                              t:;,                     j      .   1  ^,e -  jJ  .
J Uorbondar  N A GA D H                B          GAR  
Juood    -                  j BHAVN                       s;A
AMEI   A          ---            -:       
'JUNAGADH
'%.rw_       #a X.          - 
AMRELI
DIU
Wzisod4f
DAMAN/ ". 
The mn hl bopr wepared by TM WAfd Bm*s sTar edwfy f,r flu cwnimone of
sw.m re_~s w- zdiex     for Nbw' ue f The WoddB* 7d fu hjwaI
F;n-we CaxporUm6. The dNMIw,aeu ad and 0* boswies swn aw VW NM P do no!
an SW     pdt d  Ttre of   Ow aId yiy bV -xtursulFw nicr Caflorf n. bIyxmW
an 11e ~  ibo of arylvWy 'ay <Idrgn a Or,a  of mwh bma. '.s



IBRD 17811
JANUARY 1984
I N  D IA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT- GUJARAT
AGRO-CLIMATIC CONDITIONS
,I                                                                                                            I
.-MAHE 5ANA  4  2 l//    ,   v                    ---  ~~~~~Project Area Boundary
=:  AiJY ,/f ,6    2i  /  J>,g,   wr-                       Proposed Main Canal
_       iS~Mohosana^   vt t( i7                                            ProposedS Main Branch
<rvGANbHINAGAR}   H imtn-aga<R  Drought Prone Areos
- tSA         =T                                             Agro- Climotic Regions
.r                                         2; '  RiMean Annual Rainfall lsohyets (mm.)
Rann of Kutch
National Highways
-'----< -.Selected Railroads
C. tI~JCHMHALSN/  -4AH--District Boundaries
i * ^ ->K~ KHEDA8s\ fp ,                         o             < ,,- Stote Boundaries
International Boundories
-  X |*iw   @MADMADYA
xt _ S > A ~~PRA DESH
_-go!                                           -1 Xauq/) o  p sOirdor Sorovor
,AR                        H       U                                             KILOMETERS
0        40       s0       120
K>'                                                                   o       20     40      60      so
t.   i °M;LES8
U A~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 
>~~A  A                                                                            aAVNGLASH.
\Ta   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Adb   
/,,Z, '-t;  ..   -:  I                              -10
d i *   s   i                                                                       -    CI LANKA
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __7 J  =-  e90



PAKISTAN                                                         ~~~R A
J                    4
P A  K IS T A N                                                          ,
*        . ICH                 A.9EY AN                                  Co
HIAGA R
>      ---                        \    -- .; :+^:: r.       ?               g   >4,,ox 
-~~~~ -~    5,                                               -x__
Zo. ~ ~ ~    ~   ~    .
) -.
*  J    o    ^ N>  -              C    '.r
-   RAE-IK                    G                     MahA4C
JAMNAGAMA\ 0
DAMAJYk
KICLOMlETERS
O   10         80~~s     120
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~- ,N *  ,
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -o 32  4>'*                                                        
MILES
7?w m7 has been prCpar-c  by TheAtx                            r 8*s st- ue rcr v C  of
dars &is exkgSe   ly ror VW ownuseof The VbBr *     and                                        & d,m
Cophial The dlxAtionls usd owx Jto bow*tvs sww? n raths map do nott 
--,.an gm pol of rho VW tf W* wIY rfw &UwmrAr Fice Cvgrb    yfodgwNt7' 
1* rqSr 5bsM  o SW tw   y or vy ndrmenWl or acdtneo such boaunS,dw
b~~~~~~~~~
->                   -     .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



I BRD 17941
FEBRUARY 1984 
I N DIA
R  4                                                      NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT
GUJARAT
REGIONAL SOIL TYPES
- -SKANTHJEA'-      ,  */  ->         +SOIL TYPES:
.(                       V                                  Loamy Sand
;3E,    -~  7.-S,-j  ,            %                        .. Sandy Loom
iAHE5ANA                               '                             ij .,:::: '-- i  .- ,- ......Bhol Clay
- -      '/   ;  Vz              ^                      -     Cloy
H/NA~GAR  I:-S'tS WANAHA-                   4
,-      r                            --- ;----  -  Project Area Boundary
"~ ?. ~-PANCHMAHAlSr          =     Proposed Dom  Site
.I..-   Proposed Main Canal
[I   UjProposed Branch Canals
*:                  \      _   Ia -KH2VA1          Rivers
0<
_ X g  ~Mahi Command                   Ci     <>         <           -..-  District Boundaries
*                    ,                      ,_ -  >~Cs > LState Boundaries
International Boundaries
z  rs'-  i    .,-ot.:::: *;  ~~  SX   PropJosed Scodor Sorovor          
Dom SBre
\   oScUf ,fJ PA T           < 
-y                              -,       Io    f  ^-1
fi  VAf.DA     N        (tv ux  f                j'PAKISTAN '           s         J
BANGL D 1/
DAAAA                                                                        I N D I A
*  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ ~~~~~~~201
Yz.
-     0    0                                                                        _-    SRI LANKA
* . ..  -                                                                        701






