Tocument of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C R? '6TR-r-v
4-                                        Repwt N.. P-3938-IN
REPORT AND RECOWMENDAIION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOcIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT OF SDR 149.5 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
NJARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT (GUJARAT)
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
February 6, 1985
This doemnb             a rc  d       way b          X byrecy    e 
thi fib dti  lb       l     ya  aewse be_ didw  wid    WW  B a



CURRENCY EOUIVALEBS
(As of February 4, 1985)
US$1.00      - Rs 12.75
Rs 1.00      - US$0.078
Rs 1 million   U$78,000
The US DolLarlRupee exchange rate is subject to cbarage.
Conversions ix the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as othervise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 12.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CAC    -    Construction Advisory Committee
GEL   -    Central Electricity Authority
CPU    -    Central Procurement Unit
ERR    -    Economic Rate of Return
COG   -    Government of Gujarat
GOI   -    Government of India
GOMP   -    Government of Madhya Pradesh
GOR    -    Government of Rajasthan
Ha    -    hectere
ID    -    Irrigation Department (GOG)
Km     -   Kilometers
mISC   -   Management Information Systems Cell
NDD    -    Narmada Developme7t Depertment.
NC&   -    Narmada Control Authority
laPC   -    Narmada High Povered Coruittee
DPG    -    Ramada Planning Group
NRC    -    Narmada Review Committee
NDT  -    Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal
SEB    -    State Electricit- Board



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT (GUJART)
WAoER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:            Government of Gujarat (COG). 11
Amount:                 IDA Credit:  SDR 149.5 million (US$150 million
equivalent).
Terms:                  Standard-
On-lendins Terms:       From GOI to GOG as part of central assistance to
States for development projects on terms and condi-
tions applicable at the time. GOI would bear the
exchange risk.
Proiect Description:    The proposed vater delivery and drainage project is
part of an inter-state program for the development of
multi-purpose hydropower and irrigation dAsm on the
Narmada River and their associated irrigation canal
networks. The program has been designed to
(a) further the progress of India-s long-term power
plan through the addition of generating capacity
within the Western Region; (b)  bring potentially
valuable agricultural land in Gujarat and Rajasthan,
now prone to drought and vater scarcity, under
irrigation, and (c) supply domestic, municipal and
industrial water for Gujarat. The proposed project
consists of the first three year time slice of con-
struction of a large main canal extending for about
440 km through Gujarat to Rajasthan and an extensive
canal network. A separate, parallel operation sup-
ported by the Bank Group would finance construction
of a dam and power complex, including a storage
reservoir extending about 210 kIs upstream of the dam
in Gujarat, into Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The
projects would install 1,450 KW of hydroelectric
generating capacity and associated transmission
facilities, irrigate about 1.9 million ha in Gujarat
and create the potential for the irrigation of about
70,000 ha in Rajasthan. and supply about 1,300 mil-
lion cubic meters per annum of municipal and
1/ The Government of Rajastan would also benefit from the project, but will
not be a recipient of credit funds.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
industrial water. As part of the river basin
development, the project would contribute to the
eventual improvement of the lives of over 11 million
people in ftur States. As one of the largest
developments ever conceived of and designed as an
iutegrated set of izvestments, it will pose major
challenges to GOI and the participating States in
ensuring its execution and operation to very high
technical standards. There are risks that financial
constraints and difficult and lengthy land acquisi -
tion and resettlement proceedings could delay execu-
tion ard the build-up of project benefits. These
risks bave been mitigated through special measures by
GO! in ensuring the availability of sufficient finan-
cial resources for the project, the formulation of a
comprehensive resettlement plan, and the use of
foreign civil contractors on key civil works.
Overall, the risks are acceptable.
Estimated Cost jj:
(USS millions)
Local        ForeiRn         Total
Comoonents:
Main Canal                                191.7           84.3          276.0
Branches                                   46.1           20.0           66.1
Distribution and Drainage
Systems                                  28.6           3.8            32.5
Training and Technical Assistance           0.2            1.0            1.2
Total Base Costs                     266.6         109.1           375.8
Physical Contingencies                     34.3           14.9           49.2
Price Contingencies                        72.0           24.0           36.0
Total Project Costs                  372.8         148.1           520.9
jj Includes an estimate of US$29.3 million in taxes and duties.
at Does not add due to rounding.



- iii-
Figngcing Plan:                                     Cuss millionv)
Local        Foreitn        Total
GOG                         332.9            -            332.9
GOR                          38.0            -             38.0
Bank Group                     1.9         148.1          150.
Total                  372.8          148.1          520.9
Estimated Disbursements                      (USS millions)
FY85      FY86     iY87     FY88
Annual                   1.3      32.3     84.3     32.1
Cumulative               1.3     33.6    117.9    150.0
Rate of Return: About 13Z
APDraisal Report: No. 5108-IN, dated February 12, 1985.
1J BY Bank Group fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMNET ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE NARNADA RIVER
BASIN (GUJARAT) WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.      I submit the folloving report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
went credit to India for SDR 149.5 million (US$150 million equ*ivalent) to help
fianmce the construction of an extensive canal network in Gujarat. The IDA
Credit vould be made on standard terms.  The Government of India (GOI) would
channel the proceeds of the credit to GOG in accordance with GOI's standard
terms and arrangements for financing development projects. The exchange risk
will be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2Z since 1950/51 - has
been slower than growtb of industrial value-added (5.3Z per annum). As a
result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at
factor cost) from 52Z in 1950/51 to about 33% in 1981/82, while the share of
industry rose from 20% to around 262. But industrialization has not been rapid
enough to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6% per annum since 1950151.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7% in 1983/84, while the gross domestic
investment rate rose from 12.5% of GDP to 24.8% in 1983/84. Foreign savings
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Bombay Urban Development Project (No.P-3920-IN),
dated January 7, 1984.



-2-
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20 was reached during the
early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8X of investment.
External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 31 of GDP and averaging below 1S for the past five
years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3S of GDP, and
presently stands at 2.1Z.
5.     Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3Z. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which bad remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of India-s exports grew on average about 7.31 per anum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role. -
6.     Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averagi'g
5.3%, 3.3Z and 8.1%, respectivelv, during the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In
1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent
years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply
shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and
the opening up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pres-
sures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These
setbacks coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid
down a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall
grovth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.     Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
GDP growth averaged almost 5Z per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum - substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels
and liberalized policies on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and comer-
cial borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of
infrastructure and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved
performance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement
in performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate
of wholesale prices declined from over 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83,
but rose to over 9% in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982/83 drought
on food prices. Further improvements in the policy environment will be
required to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment



-3-
without putting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving infla-
tionary expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, mainly because
of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980/81 and 1981182, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6% and 5.3%, respectively. While
industrial output expanded by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise
by more than 15Z and 5.5Z, respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail
transport, already improved in 1980181, was further expanded in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.5%, respectively. This over-
all improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought
in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production by 4%, brought down the GDP
growth rate to 1.8Z, and put further strains on the already difficult balance
of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of
various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and
distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the
otherwise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy recovered
in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7Z
with agricultural production growth in the 9%-10% range and industrial grovth
of 4.5Z. The major factors contributing to the good economic performance
during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural
policies and programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport
sectors. The power sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher
growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by 102-12Z over .ie previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for veather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6% per annum-sufficient
to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise
from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs
to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84,
nartially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7% due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year. delays in the commissioning
of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal plants.
As a result, power generation was about 11.5% below requirements and con-
stituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were adver-
sely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and
coal. To improve performance in the power sector, the Government recently
increased incentives for higher labor and management productivity in thermal
plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-kms, grew by only 0.5% in
1983/84, reflecting sluggish demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5%
in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combined with stocks already avail-
able this level of production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand



-4-
growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply had
the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these key
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to
enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late
1970s to an average equivalent to 2.12 of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6Z of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substan-
tial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. Tf India is to
maintain investment at about 25% of GDP, a major effort will be required to
raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity,
more efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1X-2.3% of
GDP to 1.5Z-1.8%, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983184. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a
more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of
interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe
infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments,
India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth
rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% while adjusting the country's
external balance to the adverse price developments in the world markets. The
main elements of this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are
export promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implemen-
tation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward
a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs
for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology aud
capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization.
Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products,
metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other"
imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capi-
tal goods which historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of
critical importance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modern-
ization and expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was
the lower net import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in



-5-
1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil develop-
ment program that reduced import needs and allowed crude o.l exports, which
totalled about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the
balance of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels of
imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
cap'tal flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of :oncessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, Itdi. bor-
rowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and
suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has
been used for specific development projects in the public and private sector
(mostly for petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and
shipping). India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its
borrowings, for project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments
3upport, enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.
This larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement
with the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen
to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in tne utilization of existing capacity. India also has
a wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-
endowed with human resources.  Finally, India has an extensive natural resource
base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores,
but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30%
higher than in the period 1975-80-a creditable performance indeed.  The Sixth



-6-
Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobi-
lization by the public sector vill fall short of the financing requirements of
planned public investment. Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be
about 72 below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5X to 10X higher and public investment about 20% lover in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
mance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
Governments. The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about
OZ to 9O% of the original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States'
will probably achieve only about 50% of their targets, due principally to
shortfalls in resource generation.  Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power,
transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real invest-
ment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capi-
tal formation rates bave increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GD.' in
1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much
of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large
and growing proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better plan-
ning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utiliza-
tion throughout the eccnomy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic
capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and
cement, this is justifiee on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in
accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for
sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the c-_rrent development strategy which
arsigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commer-
cial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments conse-



-7-
quences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of conces-
sional assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural
sector and enormous investment requiremerts for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrow-
ing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of
course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. Nevertheless,
with a morc open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the
growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both
*        foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that at can sustain a rate
of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6Z per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.02 per
annum, a 5.0X growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of
per capita income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a
significant difference to the praspects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2% per
annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction
in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting
larger availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome
development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the
need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health and family planning
programs in a broad range of activities and services. These efforts are given
high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of
protected couples in the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80
level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its
population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to
retain the emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education
and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
eccaomic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least
able to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually
reinforcing rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty programs
operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program
(MNP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at
increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of
productive assets or direct employment. The MNP, aims at broadening the provi-
sion of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capi-
tal of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a
vitally important commitment of the Government to address the needs of the
poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent



-8-
difficulties in implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need
for continued efforts to enbance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BK  GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 82 loans and 165 development
credits to India totalling US$6,526 million and USS12,268 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,524 million has been
repaid, and USS6,207 million was still undisbursed as of September, 30, 1984.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1984 totalled USS171 million, representing a decrease of about
40 percent over the same period last year. Anzel II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1984.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitmente in India totalling US$223
million, of which USS34 million has been repaid, USS56 million sold and
US$34 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$98 million, US$91 million repre-
sents loans and US$7 million equity. A sumary statement of IPC disbursements
as of September 30, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country-s development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which h2ve hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure pr!bjocts.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant and consonant with
Government priorities as rcflected in the Sixth Plan. Continuation of the
Bank's Group current priorities can be strongly justified on the basis of the
approach that is being taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan.
First, continued support of GOI-s agricultural program is warranted. While
India has made significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will
have to be sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and
to contribute to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, we will continue
our support to irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricul-
tural extension and credit. Second, the review of performance under the Sixth
Plan confirms the high priority that should continue to be given to the expan-
sion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the
development of India-s indigenous hydrocarbon resources. Accordingly, the Bank
will continue to support the development of the energy, transport and telecom-
munications sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain output in
both agricultural and industrial sectors. Third, support of urban development
and other GOI basic social services programs for the poor must also continue in



-9-
light of the growth in population which, despite successes in lowering birth
and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each year. Finally, the
major departure from our previous strategy will be a substantial increase in
the Banzks assistance to Iudia's industrial development substantially aimed at
supporting GOI's efforts in promoting greater efficiency and faster development
of the indnstrial sector.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, Iudia successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset
the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the
relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four
years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
Inlia should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports
relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the
domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India-s poverty and neel's are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prespects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of sa-,ngs,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. Despite recent setbacks, India's external payments position is still
manageable. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of its total cur-
rent account was about 12.9Z in 1983/84. Over the next several years this
ratio is projected to rise to around 20Z and remain around that level through
1995196.  As of September 30, 1984, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank
totalled US$5,176 million, of vhich US$2,713 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount o:tstanding of US$2,463 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969170, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and 37%. respectively, in 1983184.
On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$9.6 billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). In
1983184, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group-



-10-
PART III - IRRIGATION IN INDIA
Agriculture and Irrigation in India and in Gujarat
29.     Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy, con-
tributing some 40Z to GDP. GOI development plans have sought to raise
foodgrain production through the expansion and improved reliability of
irrigation water supplies, fertilizers, plant protection, and seeds of
improved variety. Projections of demand for foodgrains by the end of the
Seventh Plan Period (1989/90) call for foodgrain production in excess of
150 million tons compared to production in 1983/84 of 145 million tons,
which represents an annual growth rate of about 3% compared to the post-
"Green Revolution" (1966-67) growth rates of about 2.5% per annum.
Shortages of cultivable land will dictate the need for increasing produc-
tion through more intensive cropping. This in turn requires, inter-alia,
the extension of irrigation systems into large drought-prone areas where
it is feasible to do so, through investments such as those contemplated
for the Narmada River Basin. Bank Group lending for Indian agriculture
has been, and continues to be, consonant with GOI objectives of raising
agricultural growth and productivity, focussing on areas where technical
constraints, including the provision of reliable water supplies, are most
severe. Bank Group investments in irrigation essentially aim at expandirg
and improving the efficiency of irrigation infrastructure, and promoting
optimal and co-ordinated resource use through improved water management.
30.     Gujarat's population is 36 million and growing at an annual rate
of about 2.5%. Agriculture accounts for more than 30% of the GDP and
employs more than 60Z of its working population. Much of Gujarat is
characterized by low and highly variable rainfall, with consequent suscep-
t-bility to drought and famine. GOG therefore allocates high priority to
irrigation development. While only 54Z of Gujarat's ultimate irrigation
potential has been developed to date, most water surface available for
irrigation outside the Sardar Sarovar service area will have been
developed within a decade. Three-quarters of the undeveloped water poten-
tial is located in areas whose requirements can be met by transfers from
the Narmada Basin. Therefore, the only feasible means of sustaining an
adequate level of agricultural growth in Gujarat is through the develop-
ment of wate- supplies from the Narmada River.  The project will also
create the potential for the irrigation of about 70,000 ha of drought-
prone land in Rajasthan, a state which contains large areas of desert with
low foodgrain yields. The Bank Group has provided significant support to
Gujarat for the development of its irrigation systems beginning in 1961
and- since 1979, of its agricultural extension and research system
(details are in Annex IV).



-ll-
The Narmada Basin
31.     The Narmada is the largest westward-flowing river in India.  It
rises in eastern Madhya Pradesh and discharges into the Gulf of Cambay,
draining about 98,800 km2 in Hadhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Its
average annual flow is greater than the total of the Ravi, Beas and Sutlej
flows that feed the Indus Basin. Previous plans for the development of
Narmada's resources could not be implemented due to inter-State disputes
over the allocation of water. In December 1979 the GOI-appointed Narmada
Water Disputes Tribunal (NWDT) made an award covering most aspects of the
basin developments, including the scope of the main investments, water
allocations, cost and benefit sharing, resettlement and rehabilitation of
the oustees, and institutional mechanisms for implementation and operation
of project facilities. The NWDT's award has created the potential for a
very significant development of water and power resources in India. The
Basin plan calls for the construction of 30 major (21 irrigation, 5
hydropower and 4 multipurpose) projects, some 400 medium schemes and
several thousand minor schemes which would bring under irrigation 4-5
million ha of potentially valuable agriculturaL land which are currently
drought-prone. It would provide at least 2,700 MW of hydro power capacity
and enhance domestic and industrial water supplies. The basin-wide
program of development would take 40-50 years to complete. The first
critical investments in the Narmada Basin will be the Sardar Sarovar Dam
and Power Project, described in the accompanying President's Report
No. P-3937-IN, dated February 6, 1985 and an associated Water Delivery and
Drainage Project in Gujarat, the subject of this report. Bank Group
involvement in the Narmada Basin to date has consisted of providing funds
under the project preparation facilities attached to the Gujarat II
Irrigation Project (Credit 1101-IN, dated May 12, 1980) and the Second UP
Tubewells Project (Credit 1132-IN, dated March 31, 1983) for preparation
of the high priority investments in the basin. In addition, Bank staff
and consultants have contributed substantially to optimizing the basin
plan and the design of the initial project investments.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.     The Water Delivery and Drainage Project was appraised by missions
which visited India in March, June and September, 1983. A post-appraisal
mission on the resettlement component of the related dam and power project
visited India in August 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
in November, 1984, and in January 1985, with the Indian delegation coor-
dinated by Mr. A. Thapan, of the Government of India's Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The complexity of the project and
the need for interstate coordination explain the time taken for appraisal
and negotiations. A President's Report pertaining to the Sardar Sarovar
Dam and Power Project is being distributed simultaneously. The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 5108-IN, dated February 12, 1985, is being circulated
to the Executive Directors separately. A Supplementary Data sheet is
attached at Annex III.



-12-
Project Objectives
33.     The project, together with the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power
Project, being considered simultaneously, would provide storage and
regulation of the Narmada River flows needed to establish efficient,
reliable and equitable irrigation and municipal and industrial water
supplies coupled with effective drainage, to very large, dry and drought-
prone areas in Gujarat and Rajasthan. These investments would create a
State-wide water conveyance network and thus be a major engine of growth
for Gujarat's whole economy and be the principal basis for its agricul-
tural developmpnt in the 21st century.  Water would be supplied to urban
and rural population centers and to industries in Gujarat. Development of
a large untapped water resource, such as the Narmada River, would comple-
ment on-going efforts to improve utilization of existing irrigation
facilities through upgrading of water delivery systems and improved
management practices. The projects would also establish a reliable and
efficient supply of hydroelectric power, particularly long-term peaking
capacity, to tie Western Region grid.
Rationale for lank Group Involvemenc in the Narmada River Development
34.     The Sardar Sarovar Dam and associated canal networks would be the
largest Indian irrigation system planned and designed as one unit. It has
been designed and planned, and would be constructed to standards not
hitherto used in India and thus permit higher levels of reliability and
timeliness of water delivery than previously achieved. It thus represents
a break with traditional modes of Indian irrigation development. The
Bank's influence to date has been instrumental in five ways: (a) the
establishment of a high-level planning agency (the Narmada Planning
Group); (b) the conduct of key studies in systems planning, design,
implementation and operation, and in resettlement; (c) the use of foreign
expertise to suppLement local resources for formulating systems designs,
studies and planning methodoLogies; (d) the resoLution of unique technical
and institutional issues, thereby assisting in the optimal development
of large and hitherto untapped water resources; and (e) the formulation of
a comprehensive and equitable resettLement and rehabilitation program for
oustees. Further Bank Group involvement is justified to ensure the con-
tinued adoption of new technologies in systems communications, operation
and control, including ensuring the introduction of dependable rotational
water supplies to individual farmers spread over large areas, thus con-
tributing to the increased reliability and efficiency of water use over
very large areas. It would also be instrumental in facilitating inter-
state coordination, which is essential if the basin resources are to be
developed in optimal fashion, given the interdependence of the projects.
Bank Group participation is justified to ensure that new technologies are
adopted in the construction, operation and maintenance of other critical
basin investments. It could also catalyze the attraction of suppliers'
credits and other forms of commercial financing to the project. Finally,
Bank Group involvement in the basin would set new standards and thus spur
the modernization of large parts of the Indian irrigation sector.



-13-
Project Description
35.     The project consists of a three-year time-slice of construction of
the following major water supply components in Gujarat:
(a) Irrigation System. Construction of 438 kms of main canal with a
head capacity of 1133 cubic meters per second. Construction of a head
regulator, cross regulators, aqueducts, cross drainage structures, canal
crossings, road and railway bridges.   Where aquifer conditions permit,
centrally controlled augmentation tubewells would infuse groundwater
supplies conjunctively with surface supplies to the delivery system at
locations above the 200-500 ha service areas, and thence to farms through
extensive networks. Water releases from the reservoir would be made
through a hydroelectric power plant or through an irrigation bypass tunnel
on the rim of the Sardar Sarovar reservoir and would be re-regulated in
four interconnected ponds above the main canalhead regulator. A lined
main canal, branch canals and distributaries, which form the conveyance
system to 200-500 ha irrigation service areas, would be concrete lined and
equipped with cross-regulators to maintain appropriate water levels at all
take-out structures. Conveyance structures would be designed for remote
control. The canal delivery system, within the irrigation service areas,
would be tied to outlets, each serving about 8 ha, and would be free-
draining. (It is anticipated that farmers, through their own
organizations, will construct, operate and maintain the system below the
8 ha turnout.)
(b) Drainage Facilities. An open channel flood drainage system con-
sisting of improved natural and artificial drains would be constructed to
the 40 ha level concurrently with the conveyance and distribution system.
Where and when appropriate, tubewells would perform a groundwater drainage
function.
(c) Roads. Service roads would be constructed and the existing road
network would be enhanced by improving farm-to-market access.
(d) Other Infrastructure. A communication and remote control system
(and back-up systems) would be provided between the project control
center, area control centers, and all flow control points; in addition,
offices, stores, workshops and residences would be constructed in support
of system operation and maintenance.
(e) Command Area Development (CAD). Land shaping, development of
on-farm drainage facilities and agricultural support services would be
provided.
(f)   Training and Technical Assistance.  Funds wouLd be provided for
training programs on environmental protection, project operation and
maintenance (including the establishment of a permanent O&M training
unit), and the development of minor irrigation systems. Technical



-14-
Assistance would be needed for a variety of activities during project
construction and initial operations.
Bank Group financing is proposed for the first three-year time slice of
the canal network, consisting essentially of canal earthworks and lining,
control structures and branch canal construction, development of the
drainage and distribution systems, and training and technical assistance.
36.     The project would be implemented in conjunction with Sardar
Sarovar dam, hydropower generating facilities, storage weir, rockfill
dams, channels and irrigation bypass tunnels, pum.7-back power transmission
lines, hydrometeorological network, resettlement and rehabilitation, and
training and technical assistance. These components are described in an
accompanying document entitled "President's Report and Recommendation on
the Narmada River Development (Gujarat) Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power
Project", dated February 6, 1985. The two projects have synchronized
implementation schedules.  It is essential to commence work on the canal
network so as to ensure that water available upon completion of the dam
could be used for municipal and industrial purposes.
Project Organization and Management
37.     The Government of Gujarat (GOG) has primary responsibility for
planning, design, implementation, and operation and maintenance (O&M) of
the project. Several agencies within Gujarat have been established to
plan and execute the project. These are described below in
paragraphs 38-41. Because of the interstate nature of the project, a
number of coordinating institutions were set up to guide project implemen-
tation (see paragraph 42).
Gujarat State Agencies
38.     The Narmada Development Department (NDD).  The NDD, to be headed
by an Additional Chief Secretary, was recently created under the Minister
of Irrigation to implement all Narmada-related investments, and will be
responsible for the implementation of both the Dam and Power Project and
the Water Delivery and Drainage Project. It would have the necessary
staff strength, assisted by consultants. Current staff strength of
Gujarat's total irrigation organization, including the Irrigation
Department, 1/ is 7,516 engineers of whom 1,370 (including 94 at senior
level) are presently assigned to the NDD.  Staff requirements will peak in
1938/89 at about 6,630 (technical and engineering staff), including 230 at
senior level.  COG would maintain the NDD at all times with such powers,
functions, responsibilities, organization, staffing and funds as are
1/ The Irrigation Department, headed by Secretary, will continue to be
responsible for all other State irrigation and command area development
activities outside the NDD.



-15-
required to implement and manage the project (Section 2.08, Gujarat
Project Agreement).
39.     Centralized Procurement Unit (CPU).  In order to efficiently
perform the complex procurement tasks necessary for the Narmada
development, procurement responsibilities would be centralized in one
organizational unit responsible for the procurement of all goods, works,
and services for the entire scheme, reporting directly to the Additional
Chief Secretary of the NDD. The CPU would engage all the financial,
commercial, legal and engineering talents needed to manage procurement
activities, and would service all engineering aspects of the project in
selecting the source, arriving at a price, and preparing the contracts for
all works, goods, and services. The CPU would also monitor the progress
of the contracts. COG has established the Central Procurement Unit for
the project within the NDD and would maintain it during project implemen-
tation with such powers, functions, responsibilities, staffing, organiza-
tion and funds as shall be required (Section 2.10(a), Gujarat Project
Agreement).
40.     Narmada High Power Committee (NHPC).  This committee is respon-
sible for coordination and ensuring timely interaction between various GOG
departments and provides guidance on policy issues related to the project.
The NHPC is chaired by the Chief Minister and includes the Ministers of
Finance, Irrigation, Power, and Agriculture among its members.
41.     Narmada Planning Group (NPG).  The NPG, within NDD, reports
directly to the NHPC and is responsible for the carrying out major plan-
ning studies of the overall project ir. Gujarat and of the Narmada River
Basin. It is chaired by the Irrigation Minister. Its Executive Vice
Chairman is in charge of NPG's day-to-day operations.
Gujarat would maintain the NHPC and NPG with such powers, functions,
responsibilities, staffing and organization and funds as shzll be required
to enable them to carry out their respective responsibilities
(Section 2.09, Gujarat Project Agreement).
42.     Other Gujarat Agencies.  Because of the magnitude of the project
and its statewide importance, a number of other COG departmental agencies
have been and would continue to be involved in planning and implementing
the project. These include the Departments of Finance, Agriculture,
Forestry, Public Works, Transportation, Communications, and the Water
Supply and Sewerage Board.
43.     Other interstate agenciec have been established as follows:
(a) Narmada Control Authority (NCA). The NCA is a coordinating and
decision-making entity consisting of seven high-ranking engineers from
each participating State and GOI as members, and a supporting staff. It
is expected to play a key part in coordinating the future operation of the
project and other major irrigation and power projects in the basin, would
play a key role in the implementation of the hydrometeorological network



-16-
and in the daily operation of the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Reservoir and,
through GOI, would have overall responsibility for monitoring and evalua-
tion of the resettlement and rehabilitacion program. Upon project
commissioning, the NCA would issue periodic directives concerning the
interstate allocations of water and power, functioning along the lines of
the Bakhra Management Board, which has been successful in guiding the
irrigation and power operations of the Indus Basin in Punjab, laryana,
Himachal Pradesh, and Rajasthan.  The NCA would also review designs and
coordinate the construction program for the main canal.
(b) The Sardar Sarovar Construction Advisory Committee (CAC). This
advisory committee was formed to review and make recommendations concern-
ing the planning, design, and construction of the dam and power complex.
It is chaired by the Secretary of Irrigation, GOI, and has representation
from Central Government authorities handling irrigation and power and from
the States. It would be actively involved in reviewing designs, cost
estimates, contract proposals and implementation progress of the main
canal.
(c) Narmada Review Committee (NRC). This committee is chaired by the
Union Minister of Irrigation, and includes the concerned chief ministers
of each State as members. It has the right to review and suspend any
decisions made by the NCA.
GOI and the concerned States would at all times maintain the above inter-
state agencies with such powers, functions, responsibilities, staffing,
funds and membership as shall be required for the accomplishment of their
purposes (Sections 3.03, Development Credit Agreement, 2.07, Gujarat
Project Agreement, and 2.03, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Project
Agreements).
Training and Technical Assistance
44.    To acquaint the project engineers at all levels with the project
concepts and policies, and to facilitate the absorption of large numbers
of staff into the project organization, one or two week courses would be
designed and conducted in conjunction with Gujarat's Water and Land
Management Institute. The project would also finance the costs of travel
abroad and in India, and the acquisition of training equipment. Project
training would be supported by an allocation of US$550,000 from the IDA
Credit. GOG would by June 30, 1985 prepare plans agreed with IDA for
training programs covering: environmental effects and preventive
measures; block development of minor irrigation and drainage network
including field surveys, layout, design estimates, and related activities;
and project operation and maintenance (Section 2.02(d), Cujarat Project
Agreement). Training would be conducted concurrent with requirements of
Gujarat Medium Irrigation II Project implementation in the development of
minor irrigation systems. Canal project O&M training would also be coor-
dinated with the O&M training needs of the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power
Project.



-17-
45.     In addition, a small permanent O&M training facility would be
established and staffed early during project construction to orient staff
and farmer representatives to the project operations. The NDD's new O&M
planning unit would complete plans, schedules, and budgets for the
proposed training facility and coordinate with the proposed extension and
training accivities of the Agriculture Department.
46.     GOG has recognized the need to use foreign and local consultants
for the project's special design and construction features. The NDD would
institute a Consultancy Board to independently review design and construc-
tion plans of the main canal and its earthworks, lining and major in-line
and cross-drainage structures, and to recommend modifications as required.
Foreign and local technical experts would . :st the Board in overall
project procurement, supervision, design and management, including instal-
lation of a quality control system and development of centralized data and
management systems; systems operation and maintenance; and for the
selection, design and instalLation of project-wide communication and
remote control systems.
47.     These technical assistance requirements would entail a minimum of
75 man-months of consultancy services. COG would establish by April 1,
1985 and thereafter maintain a Consultancy Board constituted by consult-
ants on specific technical tasks. The qualifications, experience, terms
of reference and procedures for selecting the members of the Consultancy
Board shall be satisfactory to IDA (Sections 2.03 and 2.04, Gujarat
Project Agreement).
Design and Operation Criteria
48.     Water would pass sequentially through the conveyance network (main
canal, branch canals and distributaries) and the delivery network (minors,
subminors and field channels). A technologically appropriate system was
needed to provide quick, reliable and equitable response to irrigation
demands to the tailends of the system, which could be more than 700 kms
from the main canal head regulator. Traditional free flowing and upstream
scheduled operations, which would have taken too long to adapt to changes
in demand and would not meet the needs of the tail-enders, were sub-
stituted in the conveyance network by a controlled volume operation, and
in the distribution system by predetermined rotational deliveries based on
oon" or "off" operating modes.  This conveyance system requires that all
canal cross regulators are operated nearly simultaner,usly during changes
in flows. Whenever water demand changes, the flow rates, and thus sup-
plies throughout the system, are immediately adjusted to meet demand.
49.     Water allowances -- categorized as Class A, B and C water reflect-
ing levels of reliability -- would be strictly administered. Class A
water is what farmers could normally count on for their cropping plans
from surface water resources at 75% dependability, as well as from project
groundwater resources, as defined by the Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal.
Class B water is water surplus to and allocated in the same proportions
as, Class A supplies in any given year at full project development.



-18-
CLass C water consists of surplus supplies during the project build-up
period to be similarly allocated as the surplus occurs. All lands desig-
nated as irrigable and reasonably contiguous within the command area would
be served. The system would permit the delivery of municipal and
industrial supplies for a minimum of nine-and-one-half months in the year.
All reasonabLe demands for water for irrigation, and for municipal and
industrial purposes, would have priority over releases for power
generation, according to the stipulations of the Tribunal.
50.     Each irrigation service area (200-500 ha) would be served by a
single outlet from the conveyance system.  Water would be delivered 24
hours per day to a service area, thence to farms, for a fixed period of
time - at intervals to be established for each season and commencing on a
given day and hour of the week. Agricultural extension advisers would
assist in determining and informing farmers of the schedules for delivery
of allocated water in terms of size of flow, number of irrigations and
dates and times of delivery. The scheme of operation, based on rotational
concepts, constitutes a significant advance in reliability and in accom-
modating farmer needs above those found in most systems in India.
51.     The design and operation principles of the minor distribution
system in the project would be similar to those adopted for the Gujarat
Medium II Irrigation (Cr. 1496-IN), with the service area chaks and
subchaks being the elementary operating units. To enable reliable
delivery of water to some 4,000 service areas, and to minimize the nega-
tive impact of human errors, which could have devastating effects in a
project of this magnitude, the conveyance system has been designed for
remote monitoring and operation. This would enable the delivery of water
to the service area outlet by similar methods as in the individual sub-
projects in the Gujarat Medium II Irrigation Project. Within the service
areas, the problems of delivering water reliably and equitably to each
field would be similar in both projects. By the time irrigation would
begin (about 1992), over 300,000 ha in subprojects completed under Gujarat
Medium II Irrigation Project would be irrigated under rotational water
supplies, some of them for over four years. Experience would have been
gained also in farmer organizations, such as in establishment and opera-
tion of water-user associations at various levels. Thus, the project
operating organization would benefit considerably from the experience
gained in the medium irrigation schemes, and the Narmada system operation
would be in accordance with criteria and procedures which would have been
tried and tested in Gujarat. The standards and criteria to be applied by
GOG in the planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of
the project's irrigation and drainage system have been agreed with IDA.
Evaluation and Monitoring
52.     In order to provide adequate monitoring control and evaluation
capabilities to manage the project, a Management Informacion Systems Cell
(MISC) within the NDD with adequate computer facilities will need to be
established. The MISC would produce data to control, plan, monitor, and
forecast financial, material, and staff requirements for design and



-19-
construction, so as to ensure effective overall managemenL of project
imp'.ementation. The MISC would be responsible for preparation of progress
reports, and subsequently also manage and monitor water allocation
scheduling, agricultural progress, water rates and crop trends as the
project becomes operational. The MISC would be fully staffed and opera-
tional by December 31, 1985 (Section 2.10(b), Gujarat Project Agreement).
Reporting
53.     GOG would submit to IDA semi-annual and annual reports, within
three months after the end of each reporting period. The reports would
compare planned and actual implementation in physical and financial terms,
describe deviations from plans and explain the reasons therefor, and
provide revised implementation schedules. COG would submit to IDA a
project completion report not later than six months after the Closing Date
of the Credit (Section 2.11, Gujarat Project Agreement). Furthermore,
GOG would furnish to IDA semi-annual reports on the implementation of the
project (Section 2.12, Gujarat Project Agreement).
Operations and Maintenance Planning
54.     Responsibility for O&M planning has been assigned to the NPG.
Those responsible would thus form the nucleus of the O&M organization for
the project and will formulate proposals for a permanent O&M organization.
Initially, NPG will perform tasks such as analyzing and preparing plans
and requirements of the proposed O&M training facility. Thereafter it
will be responsible for reviewing the detailed organization, facilities,
equipment, and staffing needs for the initial and full development stages
of the project and to recommend permanent organizational arrangements. It
wilL prepare detailed plans to guide the operation and maintenance of the
power facilities constructed under the Dam and Power Project. The plan-
ning unit will also prepare specifications, responsibilities and arrange-
ments for power sharing among the benefitting states.
Project Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
55.     The NDD would be responsible for overall O&M of project facilities
until the completion of an approved O&M plan and the establishment of a
permanent O&M organization. Clear concepts required for the O&M organiza-
tion of O&M have already been formulated. Recognizing the type of
facilities and the sophisticated operation inherent in the water supply
and drainage systems, a project O&M organization would be structured, in
order of decreasing area, into units containing a project office, regions,
divisions, districts and irrigation service areas. There would be
approximately 16 irrigation divisions, plus one division for the main
canal, and one for the dam and power complex. Regional offices would be
estabLished for coordination of irrigation divisions. The project office
would allocate water and oversee all water and power operations. During a
transition period the government agency would have to operate the dis-
tribution system down to the 8-ha subchak. It is anticipated that at a



-20-
later stage the farmers, through their own organizations, would operate
the system below the irrigation service areas turnout.
56.     Farmers would link with the O&M organization at various levels.
At the chak (25-65 ha outlets) level, farmers would select one of their
members to represent the chak on the Service Area Irrigation Committee.
Of primary importance would be the committee's participation in the deter-
mination of the size of the service area's seasonal irrigation allotment
and delivery schedule with the help of the agricultural extension
advisors.
57.     As mentioned above, the O&M plan will be established early during
project implementation. GOG would cause NPG to develop a detailed plan
for O&M of the project along the lines described above and submit it to
IDA for approval prior to December 31, 1987. By December 31, 1988, GOG
would establish a permanent agency within the NDD to operate and maintain
project facilities in accordance with the agreed plan. The O&M agency
would be staffed with experienced and qualified personnel and be assigned
all necessary functions, responsibilities, organization and funds
(Section 2.08, Gujarat Project Agreement). Separate accounts would iden-
tify the funds to be collected as part of the O&M portion of water charges
(see paragraph 68), and allocated to cover the cost of project O&M.
Environmental Effects
58.     The environmental effects of the irrigation and drainage networks
would be considered concurrently with the overall studies required in
connection with the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project. In particular,
a two-year study would assess, inter-alia, the long-term effects of
groundwater use, water logging, salt accumulations, proliferacion of weeds
and of water borne diseases, and the effects of possible deterioration of
soil and water qualities. The study would include proposals for the
mitigation of any adverse effects of the project on the environment. GOG
would take all measures considered necessary to minimize the risk of
malaria, filaria, schistosomiasis and other water-related diseases that
may result from the implementation of the project (Sections 2.16, Gujarat
Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
59.     The total financing requirements of the three-year timeslice of
the canal and drainage network which constitutes the project are estimated
at US$520.9 million equivalent, including an estimated US$29.3 million in
taxes and duties. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$148.1
million. Physical contingencies were estimated separately for each com-
ponent and average about 13% of base cost estimates. Price contingencies
account for about 26% of project costs (including physical contingencies)
and are based on local rates of 8.5Z. Foreign inflation rates used are
9.75Z in 1984/85, 8.75Z in 1985/86, 7% in 1986/87, and 6% thereafter.



-21-
60.    The cost of constructing the main canal would be shared between
Gujarat and Rajasthan in accordance with the cost-sharing formula mandated
by the NWDT, which is based on water flows to each State. Rajasthan's
contribution is about 10% of the total cost of the main canal, or about
US$38 million equivalent. The remaining costs of the main canal, branch
canals, and distribution and drainage systems would be borne entirely by
Gujarat, whose contribution to the project would total about US$333
million, net of IDA assistance.  Rajasthan's obligation to the project
is a small part of its planned irrigation investments, so that the State
should face no difficulty in raising the resources required to meet it.
With respect to Gujarat, however, investments in the Narmada Basin will
be major undertakings which will absorb considerable financial resources.
Given the long gestation period of the Narmada investments, cost recovery
from them is excluded as a source of revenue for the State. Gujarat's
prospective budgetary resource availablities and its investment program
in irrigation for the Seventh Plan period (1985/86 - 1989/90) have been
analyzed to ensure that Narmada investments can be accommodated without
undue displacement of investments in other sectors, or of critical opera-
tion and maintenance expenditures in the State. Cujarat is expected to
allocate approximately one-third of its overall plan resources to the
irrigation sector. Total contributions from Gujarat to the Water Delivery
and Drainage Project, to the Dam and Power Project, and to the upcoming
Narmada Sagar Project in MP are expected to absorb about 65% of Gujarat's
irrigation investment budget over the Seventh Plan Period. Since Gujarat
has stated under the Seventh Plan its intention of according the highest
priority to Narmada investments, Narmada investments are expected to be
supportable under the State's Plan. Furthermore, since Narmada invest-
ments are interstate projects of considerable national importance, GOI has
indicated that special provision could be made, if needed, for additional
funds to ensure that sufficient resources are available to ensure timely
completion of the investments. In any event, GOI would provide Gujarat
with sufficient funds to ensure timely implementation of the project
(Section 3.01, Development Credit Agreement).
61.     The !DA contribution of SDR 149.5 million (US$150 million
equivalent) will finance about 30% of total project costs (incLuding
foreign exchange costs of about US$148.1 million) net of taxes and duties.
The IDA credit would be on standard terms, and would be channeLed by GOI
to GOG in accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements for
financing development projects.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.     Annex V to this report details the manner in which items will be
procured under the project. Civil works contracts to be let during the
three-year credit period would cost an estimated total of US$461 million.
However, these works contracts would not be completed during the time
slice designated for the credit. Therefore, only a part of these con-
tracts would be eligible for financing under the credit. The value of
expenditures on the work contracts within the time slice is estimated at



-22-
US$246.0 million. Final design preparations are completed or underway
for major work segsents covered by the credit.
63.     Nine civil works contracts on the main canal, three contracts on
the branch canals, and three contracts on the distribution and drainage
syscems with a total value of about US$397 million, would be let through
ICB procedures. Contractors to execute parts of the main canal and cer-
tain branch canals, as well as certain blocks on the drainage system will
be pre-qualified. Pre-qualification procedures are underway. Civil works
contracts estimated to cost less than US$6 million equivalent (totalling
about US$64 million equivalent) will be let after local competitive bid-
ding procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts in excess of US$100,000
would be subject to pre-action review by IDA with all other contracts
subject to IDA's post-action review. Over 95Z of the works, by value,
would be subject to the Bank's pre-action review. Qualified Indian con-
tractors would receive a preference of 7.5% in the evaluation of works
bids.
64.     Disbursements would be made against 60Z of expenditures for civil
works and against 100Z of eligible expenditures for technical assistance
and training. Disbursements for all payments on training and for payments
of less than Rs 300,000 for works would be made against certificates of
expenditures_ Documentation related to the certificates of expenditure
would be retained by GOG and made available for inspection by IDA. Full
documentation would be required for all other disbursements. The credit
is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1989.
Accounts and Audits
65.     CoG would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures,
ensure that such project accounts are audited annually and that copies of
such accounts, certified as to their accuracy by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, are submitted to the Bank not later than nine
months after the end of its fiscal year. They would also have final
audits prepared for projec- accounts for each fiscal year by an auditor
acceptable to the Bank and forward such audit reports to the Bank
immediately after their finalization, and make complete accounts and
financial statements available for inspection during Bank review missions.
Certificates of expenditures would be audited annually, and the audited
statements would be submitted to the Bank once a year along with the
audited accounts (Sections 3.01 and 3.02, Gujarat Project Agreement).



-23-
Cost Recovery 1/
66.     Water charges in Gujarat are among the highest in India.  They are
uniform throughout the state and vary by crop and season and currently
range from Rs 120 per irrigated ha of paddy to Rs 1,250/ha of sugarcane.
For the projected cropping patterns the average water charge under these
rates would be about Rs 280-330/ha of net CCA. The level of charges is
determined with consideration to the investment and operatnonal costs, and
the repayment capacity of the fa.'uers. With respect to the latter, COG
considers 5% to 12Z of the gross value of produce per ba as the target
level for charges (the lower percentage is for food crops and the higher
-or cash crops). A standing Interdepartmental Water Rates Review Board
was constituted in 1976 to review the rate structure and make recommenda-
tions to GOG. The Board conducts such reviews every two years. However,
under Gujarat Medium Irrigation TI Project, GOG undertook to review water
rates annually. In recen- years, water charges were increased in 1981 and
1983. The percentage increases ranged from 13% (paddy) to 337% (cotton).
The recovery of water charges is satisfactory, and is currently sufficient
to meet the O&M requirement of existing irrigation systems.
67.     The rate of direct agricultural taxation is relatively modest.
Land revenue tax and associated cesses vary with the district and the
quality of the land. On the average, farmers pay between 10-25 Rshta of
dryland of medium soil quality and double that amount for irrigated land.
Indirect agricultural taxes, especially sales taxes, are more important
from a .-evenue viewpoint. Sales tax is levied at a rate of 4.4Z for cash
crops such as cotton and oilseeds, and a sugarcane purchase tax is made at
6.6Z.
68.     In the case of municipal, industrial and domestic water users, the
level of charges will on average cover the entire O&M and capital costs
(Section 3.03(b), Gujarat Project Agreement). GOG is anxious t- maximize
cost recovery from irrigation projects and is ready to experiment with
alternative methods of charging for irrigation services such as volumetric
charges and selling water to water-user associations. The latter will be
tried under Gujarat Medium II and, if successful, will be extended to
other areas, including Narmada. There is a general agreement in Gujarat
that farmers would be wiiiing to pay more for better irrigation services.
This is demonstrated in areas irrigated from public tubewells, where
farmers pz- volumetric water charges that are three to four times higher
than in surface irrigation projects. A stud will be undertaken and
submitted tc the Bank Group by September 30, 1987 to determine the level
of water charges. Given the reliability and equity of water to be sup-
plied under the project, GCOG would, under the project, recover the entire
1/ This se_tion addresses cost recovery for irrigation, municipal and
industrial and domestic water supplies. Recovery of costs of the
Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project are contained in the President's
Report pertaining to that project.



-24-
cost of O&I and, to the extent possible, project capital costs
(Section 3.03(a), Gujarat Project Agreement). COG would also establish,
by April 1, 1989, and thereafter maintain a separate account within its
budget to record o&M costs of the project and water charge collections
(Section 3.04, Gujarat Project Agreement).
Benefits, Justification and Risk 1/
69.     The power facilities would form part of the least-cost capacity
erpansion sequence in India's western region grid even when carrying 100%
of the -ost of the dam and reservoir. The benefits from power generation
have been assessed bv attaching ar. estimate of the sociai value of energy
to the volume of energy to be produced. An attempt was made to estimate
the maximum willingness to pay for power in the industrial and agricul-
tural sectors, which together make up for some 75X of energy demand in the
western grid. Based on these estimates and on average tariffs paid by
consumers in these and other sectors an estimate of the average financial
willingness to pay was calculated and then adjusted to the economic value
of energy generated. The resulting economic price of energy at generation
is Rs 0.66/kWh, whereas the average financial revenue (at present tariffs)
would be about Rs 0.45/kWh. All energy (firm and spill energy) has been
valued at this economic price. As upstream abstractions increase over
time, power generated from the riverbed powerhouse would change from a
dual baseload and peaking operation to a prime peaking operation. Due to
its low daily plant factor (15Z-30Z) and the downstream storage provided
in the canalhead regulating reservoir, the canalhead powerhouse would be
operated to meet daily peak loads.
70.     Most benefits would result from a replacement of rainfed by
irrigated crops and a corresponding intensification of cultivation. Under
this project, the value of agricultural output (in constant financial
prices) would rise by over 370Z over a 20-25 year period; without it,
production would rise by less than 30%. Incremental production at full
development (mainly wheat, but also cotton, paddy, sorghum, pearl millet
and pulses) is estimated at 3bout 2.5 million tons annually. Overall the
project would transform Gujarat's economy by increasing its agricultural
production by 45%. About 340,000 farm families would benefit directly
from this project. The project vould generate an additional 0.7 million
man-days of full on-farm employment, while project construction activities
would generate a further 125,000 seasonal iobs annuaLly.
71.     Projections of future water demand and supply for urban centers,
villages and industries reveal substantial deficits of suitable supplies.
Under the project 1,300 million cubic meters of municipal and industrial
1/ Since the costs of the dam and reservoir cannot be strictly allocated
between power generation and water supply, this section analyzes the
economics of the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project, together with
the water Delivery and Drainage Project.



-25-
water would be supplied to population centers containing (in the year
2021) over 29 million people. The project represents (by about Rs 2.50
per cubic meter) the least-cost way of providing these water supplies to
the population centers. In addition there would be considerable non-
quantifyable benefits to health and living standards resulting from
improved water quality.
72.     For the project as a whole, considering the scale of transforma-
tion of the Gujarat and western region economies that would be effected
through the Narmada development, the quantitative analysis will understate
secondary income and employment effects of the investments. The project's
three functions of power generation, irrigation and municipal and
industrial water supplies are inter-dependent. Therefore, while calcula-
tion of separate ERRs for each component would be possible, such calcula-
tions would not have operational or decision-making significance. The
base case economic rate of return (ERR) of the projects is about 13Z.
While it should be noted that a "power-only" project yields an ERR higher
than that of the overall project, a power project alone would not meet the
main objective of the Narmada deveLopment which is to provide the basis of
State and regional plans to provide irrigation and municipal and
industrial water supplies for large sections of population currently
living in drought-prone conditions. The ERR is sensitive in relatively
minor respects to delays in dam construction and reservoir filling. A
delay of some two years in completion of the dam would reduce the ERR to
12% the estimated opportunity cost of capital in India. The ERR is also
sensitive to shortfalls in irrigated crop yields and to crop prices but is
somewhat less sensitive to factors such as cost overruns and lower irriga-
tion efficiencies. Sensitivity tests performed on many parameters demon-
strate that the economic viability of the project is maintained even with
very significant (but unlikely) adverse movements in those parameters. A
risk anaLysis calculated under 500 different sets of assumptions with
respect to key project variables, demonstrates that the chances of the ERR
falling below 10% are about one in six.
73.     The project, however, does face greater risks than normal
irrigation, power, and water supply operations in India, given its immense
size and complexity. As one of the largest investments of its kind built
anywhere, and the largest in India to date, its implementation could be
subject to delays and cost increases. It will absorb large amounts of
human and financial resources of the benefitting States.  Having been
designed to meet Gujarat's requirements in the 21st century, it will use
modern designs and state-of-the-art technology and systems operation in
both water supply and power components, and will require considerabLe
interstate coordination to ensure timely execution. Moreover, its
benefits will be maximized only with the timely construcEion of critical
investments upstream in Madhya Pradesh. To mitigate these risks, a number
of features have been incorporated into the project. Institutions charged
with project execution responsibilities will be strengthened by additions
of staff and by the acceptance of a Centralized Procurement Unit and a
Management Information System Cell. Financial resources from Central
Government and suppliers' credits will supplement local resource



-26-
availabilities. Pursuant to the decision, Madhya Pradesh would execute
a critical investment, the Naruada Sagar Project, so as to maximize power
generation from the Sardar Sarovar Dam . Project authorities would con-
tinue the practice that has been adopted throughout project preparation of
relying considerably on consultant expertise, both local and foreign, to
supplement their design, planning and execution capabilities. Suitably
qualified contractors will be associated with the major civil works items.
The intricate interstate coordination committees initiated by the Tribunal
will be continued. The Dam Safety Panel and Canal Consultancy Board will
ensure the adoption of appropriate design and construction standards.
Overall, given the excellent performance to date during project prepara-
tion and design, the project authorities, with continued use of private
sector consultancies, are considered to be able to execute the project in
timely fashion. It is thus considered highly unlikely that delays in
project execution and consequential cost escalation could jeopardize the
viability of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement with the State of Gujarat; and
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
I(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
75.     Special conditions of this project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
76.     A special condition of effectiveness of the Credit is that all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan and Credit
Agreements related to the Narmada River Development (Gujarat) Dam ar.d
Power Project will have been fulfilled (Section 5.01, Development Credit
Agreement).
77.     1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
February 6, 1985



AMUN I
Page 1. of 5
tAULE 31
111*                   - SOCIAL  DICTaC DATA   R
INDIA                                S10Zxg     MXWS _    GROUPS   ARfl AEGES Ia
MOST                    (COST URCE   E      I) l
o960h     19701b     t:       k        ASL  PACIC            ISI       N PACIC
a     ( 1 (T  S.AM SQ.                                                                                   _ )
TOTAL                                3287.a    3281.6       3287.0
AGItCULTMRAL                         1763.5    1780.5       1812.3
SW NS CAP  (ASS)                          60.0    1t0.0        260.0            278.6                    191.2
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EKOIYALN)            79.0      113.0      158.0            27L0                      567.3
Er 1ATIS  -  VITAL STATSTI
POPULATIOS.PIO-YEAR ( STIISM)    434849.0  547569.0   716985.0
URBAN POPULATION C OF TOTAL)           18.0       19.6       24.1             21.7                      34.7
V                          POPCLATIOf PROJECTIONS
POPULATION I MA 2000 (HILL)                              994.4               -
STATIOSA  POPUATIONF (KILL)                               1707.2
POPULATION !OIETU                                            t.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER sr. 10.                         132.1      166.6       213.4           16.6                      201.9
PER SQ. IQ. ACRI. LAND              246.6      307.5      387.1            345.5                    1735.1
POPULATION AGE sMUCTlRE CU
O-1. IRs                            40.9       42.7        39.3            35.6                      39.0
15-64 IRS                            54.5      54.2        57.6             56.8                     57.6
65 ND ASOVE                           4.S        3.1         Ll              4.3                       3.3
POPULATIO# CGROWI RATE (:1
TarAL                                 1.8        ZI 1.2                      1.9                      2.3
URBAN                                 2.5       313          3.9             '.1                      4.3
CRUDE EIRIE RATE (PER rHOUS)           47.7       41.4       34.2             27.1                      30.1
aCDE DEATH RATE (PER THWOS)            23.6       17.8        12.7            10.1                      9.5
CROSS REPRODUCrlTO  RATE                2.9        2.8        2.2              1.8                       2.0
FAMILY PLAJSING
ACCEPTORS. ANSUL (TiOCUS)            64.0    3782.0      6826.0               -
USERS (: OF HARIED UQIEN)                       11.7       28.0               ..                      52.7
FOOAID mmoN3
LUDER OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-1-100)                           98.0     102.0       101. o           12.8                      123.c
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (: OF REQUIR2IENTS)         96.0       91.0       86.0             97.7                     114.0
PROTELNS (CRAMS PER DAY)             54.0      50.0        44.0             56.8                     57.0
OF UHICH ANIMAL AND PLLSE          17.0       15.0        13.0 Ic         14.9                      14.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEAlS RaTE            26.2       20.7       11.0              9.8                      7.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          42.5      47.5        54.6             60.0                     60.4
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         165.0     139.0        94.0             83.8                     66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE HATEt (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                  .,       17.0       33.0 /d          32.9                      37.0
LRBAW                                 ..       60.0        83.0 Id          70.9                     54.8
RURAL                                  ..       6.0        20.0 /d          22.1                     26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(t OF POPLLATION)
TOTAL                                  ..       18.0       20.0             IS.1                     41.3
A                                      ..       85.0       87.0 l.          72.8                     47.4
RIRAL                                  ..       1.0         2.0 I            4.6                     33.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICLIN             4850.0    4890.0      3690.0 if        3484.2                   7749.4
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            O196O.0 fc 74Z0.0       5460. 0          *- 4793.1                2460.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
OTAL                               2160.0    1650.0      1290.0 if        1066.5                   1 44.2
,N                                     ..        .,       370.0 Id         298.0                    651.2
RURAL                                  ''10410.0 '         I              5993.4                   2594.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BE               ..        ..          ..               ..                     27.0
sxa
AV-RAGE SUE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2       5.6         5.2 fI
URBAN                                 5.2       5.6         4.8 7.
RURAL                                 5.2       5.6          5.37
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONSIROOl"
TOTAL                                 2.6       2.8
URBAN                                 2.6       LI8
RURAL                                 2.6       2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (: OF WlELLINCS)
TOTAL                                             ..            ..
LR.                                              .        ..                ..
RURAL                                  ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A S L R 3A
IIIDA                  -SOCIAL 7IDiCAOS DATA SEE
INIDIA                              WRRFENC  GHOUS (VEIGHTE  AVERAGE) ro*
mOST                     (MS NCECt ETTE) {b
BECuT              LW C                 MIDDLZ INCUR!
1960Ab    19701-    ESTiATLk          ASIA A PACIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ESRIOLLJ(IN RATIOS
PMARy:   TOTAL                      61.0       73.0        79.0            97.4                    102.0
HALE                      10.0      90.0        93.0            110.5                    105.9
FALE                      40.0      56.0        66.0             83.7                     93.2
SECAIIMAR: TOTAL                    20.0       26.0       30.0             35.9                     46.0
I M                       30.0      36.0        39.0             44.6                     48.7
FEKILUZ                   10.o      15.0        20.0             26.8                    43.1
VOCAXIOKAL (t Of SECONDA)              Lo         1.0        0.7 /a           2.2                     17.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RAM
PDEART                              '6.0       41.0       54.0             38.5                     31.8
SECONDI                             16.0       21.0         ..             18.7                     23.5
ADULT L    1rERACY RATE t:)           27.8       34.1        36.2            53.4                     72.9
CO_SUZN
PASSENGER CARS/ITOUSAr4D POP           0.6        1.1         1.4 /h          0.9                     10.1
RADO RECEIVERS/TUMSMAD POP             4.9       21.5       *3.6            112.1                    113.6
TV RECEIVERSIITOUSAND POP              0.0        0.0        1.7             15.7                     50.1
NEUSPAPEE (-DA= GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PElt HOUSALMD POPULATION             10.6      16.2        19.4 /h         16.2                     53.9
CL'EI  ANHUAL ATIENIDANCEICAPIMA       3.2        6.2         3.7 77          3.6                      3.4
TOTAL LUAR FORCE CTOUS)            185951.0  219196.0   282169.0
FIKALE (PERENr)                     30.7       32.5        31.8            33.3                     33.5
AGRICULTURE CPERCEUT)               74.0       74.0        71.0            69.6                     52.2
1OUS[tE CPEM VI)                    11.0       11.0        13.2            15.8                     17.9
PARTICIPATIS RATE (PERCENT)
TOrAL                                2LS       40.0        39.4            42.6                     38.7
MA;Z                                57.0       52.4        52.0            54,7                     50.9
FIAULE                              27.3       26.9        25.9            29.8                     26.6
ECOHOIC DEPENENCY RA.-O                1.1        1.1         1.1             1.0                      1.1
Da DISUUXSIUE
PERMEN OF PRIVATE  CUR
RECEIVED Sr
HIGtHEST 5:  OF HO!mOLDS            26.7       26.3 Il    22.2 Is          22.2                     22.2
HIGHEST 20: o IOHOUSEHOLDS          51.7       48.9 1    69.6 7w          48.0                     68.0
LOWIST 20? OF HDUSERDLDS             4.1        6.77W       7.07T           6.4                      6.4
L05UST 40: OF HOLSEHO.DS            13.6       17.2 Z      16.2  a         15.5                     15.5
ESTMATE ABSOLUTE POVERTY ENCOR
LEVtL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         ..       132.0 lh        133.9                    188.6
RMRAL                                 ..         ,.       114.0 W         111.6                    152.0
ESTIMATED RrLATIVE POVERTY IC
LEVEL CUSS PEA CAPITA)
oRAn"                                 ..         ..         ..               ..                    177.9
RIUAL                                      ..         ..             .        .                    164.6
ESTIMAIED POP. BELOi ABSOLUTE
POVERTY L'NCGlE LEVEL CZ)
cuRN m                                            '       40.3 lh          43.6                     23.4
RURAL                                 ,.         .        50.7 I           51.7                     37.7
. SO AVAILABLE
rT APPLIABLE
NO0T E S
a   The group averaps for each Indicator are populatian-veaghted artltltic means. Coerage of countries mong the
indicators depends on availability of data and ti not unifors.
1 UIlec othervise noted, "Data for 1960" refit to any year bet.asc  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 a*d
1971; and data for "'oet Veaent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   1977; Id 1976; /o 1975; /f 1978; /L 1962; lb 1979; IL 1966-65.
J.I   1936



ANNEX I
PaWge 3 of 5
E~NOW Duh--E ar.9  54. In.  i  .sccM40FOLuI4ME11       5ins cn              Sm imIftam ansll. I s.55ci514. VW dhl.  lS. dcl..... am.sEEc.. nE-d! W
IN  qitsqmrm    E iagn c-ES). $am" CiaSt* PIN 1454. alici *WSGLE                 (  . ci4ncas, OWcicp .1bmac b-              tn     i     ft    kcaldSc .             b
isbis calt   eadsice      IZMi             5 E.....4N    tc4   . In                  lm ist Mwms~m Id            c    .c.iim.n.cc.cic
gm     m         ai s.. h              b   ug nEtim,         .. a-Ptml 5.rists OILmba    SBiL csi.USm. .9d. at E-EE 5.9   scp.. tcI.a. in
,WEtm It-4c t ic    RI44 I.9     c - LIE ciMsIcudEPtO  W-MV nt . 24cci.11EE.tcm E-  caml. .c.cqi .- c..t go   i 4 ci.  Er da  E,cd14.t... U  c c    . tEE 5k   tui  cl
ga Ibcccdm  cc.4.'                                                                           I i4         !l0~ictit 4mu... Wu 'al  ii :_.ttlde`
.1 - -tttit                4-4.4  a-. 9%0.                          c.bs.-   .1.4  Sci   m  1 ....g Icl a             c        cmtl-
tw o -A lEms   -         crc*..mm                   tfcc c"`c.                               eccuab   "c  ebit ca  Mn. s-         4  SIASmS.icpl. 
I_        -scEaEEE     EEd  -Lt  'at           ISgiLO!%  VA                          _48 -iic sl t wtisa... 1      5         cct..    cisdS.cm.
rw:.R M112            CI  "                E4.II aEI .45I  -.Ic.                               by  St 14.5    b."t.mI.c. *MEd. cbtlmb          pc-mI...    -WclpIt. ,.c.c
-EEu   - "  IdSENE.  icl-I l.Wm.k.  EEIII.P.  -I.cs  icmi
swisY   yma ci, c.pl~.  - ec  'E..p     -scc  ci ,.. L.                                 adicci -EELm  -   m       EmEL. ccii  .  cscfEd5s     at.
p.4.cw.c.inS .at  -  SIccfl. .fL.EEE,  =mea  E.  -E s.dn-* cci..                     cL555g55   nn.EE. Mdtft. "5..5 udlft .49 .9 -EccgmclE       Ccc.tsc
cci StEmog-El, .iccEEmt.5_ En ImI-EEI,4 .1  .i ni-mi.t IEEE .csmm  SI".                       eaclil c tmCtd E.0  C1 -"-.  f.mtp
mson. a8 11.11 -.R"MM621                                                                                                - Tc.  -aSE, ci .dEm.n.m-         c  ccsc.
Mb -EEEE Ed Ic..
E.c  .lv  ,  I. two. EEE INs"41
___________'M____                                                                       A  mL        css.cc.   ims.m                        mis. m.IW  g.
cIt lcpcd    I..msca .    -  cc.. ~-   mlics  c.IMEE-1,1tp .1 ALE"                g   1.9 a.  -L-.. A biic  -  I.c1-  -                .y-       m.m,5
EnEEEfac's.; SiNf. MOS. sEEmd     tt suIIIc anasId ice .s.LmmsmI -v-e..
M M     - E =   -4  -M   =-L It. E Wft   :.                   AcI                elat     Ep       - t.S.Inccc  ..c  .tc,C.
till, IIEEEI` ..v~caat  cm(cI    .                                       - Edl  tn'n   c.cctt.c
-   aEE   it    Ei "M.5  c.c5*,it-t  a1.1 55t5 -S5..                              fl-Mss...    L5gcti  '5 t5cs'4t
.m.cc. ftnj.cg.e cu.ac.m  (4. .cc'sctsm. Icl.C  casi.. ciS~~~.'.  ca-       ,   MEEEi  Vla"
Ic tIEcm.n, 1.1. ..ISnLa. ucm II...       E' Sc.cc.m t.&E.qr     u                    c...f.t5.cc~g  PntSc.    ttS cc                                   m.
7afl  I   tiEnt.I III ita.  55 ga.5. EE       5.15 ticS'S.%     A-&9.5                                 EEEISC  Slc  dli mIK.S.tlI.S   i*4  ccl.-. .m
qtE::v.=,.S     Sc-aS.-  - - EtEd-.cc-StSc  -.U4..                                    fln.sl.-t.                S.a1c.M. - C-.   -I5.. aS.                -Lfc..
E- ci  .ltlma.   naIad   saEEI. IE.    S..   44                                           .c.tcII.cecuea  cpS.al.*EL.nc.4n
ycptl4..45411.5. iS cpLWc..  4. 1.51~45ic  saSc                  nc. bi cdstc            I.   45e..   c.a        IIIiac.   Mcms,I
cc  ii.Snm  dcc  Il.Eli           c.t   ....scm4.as.                                      c.Pc  0   ai.s.c.5   s.nSlc.   acft.4 *." -
UtEIRPEE.c.  b.45..L paCoSI.  cm. b9-Iamsc ",E-                    c.                  *i.`E ft..     S  *5*-9  ntS  cy.as    Iti.  445a
baSs - 1. pcc3.sc  ticlgt.etcSc  Ed 1k  pcpics.i 5.i.  cc            c. ftAiS-  c4cimc                                 c      C.-!-,!sc   EEbc. ..ct
E55m.cmts..tc..cm.tdME -W Ln c. tisc    III E           .1 ,5c.ie.c  ttcft   c.cfc.-*51  1c                                            . 
is. ..mtcc  at ..c,mtm    E.i 'E,   tL..I...,II,Cp.   c                               cc.diU.c             .aC            l..~          . c
E..44-  c.                                                                       lcSc.a.f. cic.ctci...~
nclcitc cc'.l,.                                                     elac.       cccccct  ;.gr*  *4c,cci cc....,         -.c.  n   .I-
-.i  n5c.A y'nti   .   c.tceac     t   r...  c;cc.a5.
145c secS545. a.i.a  551  ...                                ..ss'sis...cc  ...k.ct..   Sc-t. t..                15,. .    cE5'.- 
t.. -   in.i.c,.tmnrl cci -   Ccc.  cc.       dtt.tcc   SINts-clc  .   cdakicucm                                             aIic..          4
at.:  dci. tics' a   Ics 4.45. ~~~ttal-  IEN.1
9a'.t,tc   St,,    cs `S  gm.     A-5 -.   &MME,    E               rl n.c sccc-              EE -.51c. aleS...          f
.ccscli ir S      * R bS19I.=     dIG-"C. amftmc                                                    am.....tccic  mc a,cts    s    bli.tPcmcmEi E,             s
ec.  Itsin.In.515..3      ac  L. 1,1.cu    na   ..4Ma a'                                                          EEEEc.I,- C. c  c.  a.    a  m   Taca.   s.-
C=.mmlbg   ft'.  AMEEEEPE  - Ia     d.ci4.                     "Lt EEEE.54ins &-Lb in*i4  I.  ZIciccit5.     tri5.  c   r.   5l.
N. acas .spahls~ cut" Stc.csr            .   an.aactI                                naeC.g*5c   'crra .cucu.    -                           -  uan-_
t_lsatiity L t    -a; &eT  ft 91.1 -acvsn cisici Ic C4i. 1l's. atE                          lIecSatcE Wc R.1. 'REEE'.   maca.  .....nc-.   Eia..c.flu
pat.  .......li                                                                                          sclcc E.Eces.vI  cu.cs'   . c9c-5  dcd,c
n.e csc.14-aESEci dotl Acc. EIrctISi cc- ac-9 k.d.c
"all.11Ecgin  mpcl.   .c.I   .sl  IefAre Ma.I..da .a..    . *sI"  ...cga..cc.c.   41
f-d EEEE, 9.    cEEEWWE`   -S.. O-EWMEEI  -   wl~                   fSE,ccua               II cl  cc ...  n1ni  Ic.iccc,.c c-J      I..
fcc  cttls  kil.ttcc-L~. W.lmt  tsiI-rm.Sci-  ECa .eEEE   _.vtc.tg                                     _;~j     i .    Z   .        fcactcc   .ct1c
ccmmc -ticts -C      alt,III -I -E,E --L554c   ..prcg5c. ce9ci. EEcc  1a                   EEIntfl.  gslll-*a.  CaIl*v.c.  E.lc
*att,         l    t.c        m.  c   di.acas   riI                   ..                   .S    .p.s  r- L            ml"  521   ccltlm    gctt
E%E   EEE4   - .  441  c [t %i   r sc  c      c c  a c     S   a  c    n                      1 P  1 1*     .       icI    cc    ...st.c.c.    I-EILEEa     sat.    f i C   I
-.                                                                                 esc.514n".Ic. ScmEIEIEEM,9-C"ftEELE. .tcs -EE  EEEIs a_ .   atat  -I fIIEPEIE,Ets   -L
lbt asIc  .c.I.ct tcSc5c.lmntccE..t  fs.t.t=LS-.Ca            Is.                      cttlslg Jim.l - a too E   -    555.E - n. aEE   [is.i.StItt
E,VEtI aSaicI % ci L alaE cihic  .lclgb  -If cat  p5d4   -ft.1                            "Eu.scn1  ci~                ECc.a.  .   a.  ai   It  i    s  '        Ecgl.I
4 ~ -W1b  L ic.. 1-          Oasis        M AAttc.-tit..i    q-1                      Sal  isS  c   n.dl.N1              d   .c         tn.c.liai   c
.551.!.  acm   s   .tc...cc. INmacc i tmstubcgicc  inciSE-      fin  stSn.c  cc. I in cctcc i-gElin..
chIlly -  MWEELE        ticsrn       --ElI -I -P-s...-. %E11 EEIgisc.                       sin ,a55c5      SEEIccuELt.E E     di51
EEa                    Ed.ISct  V. Els EEcli. EEE  ULIAEff 56 EEEbIEEE  at-
it Iccm4.4  Ica; Sib.Ii.ml E.5tII-N 6i...                                        c.       a h
Lci.  I      GoI.   S-EE,tub  -iMe nl.  .  4. g   d m 0 g-1.   bi.1 -StliYd
lI, edEEEPI lc  nui  ta-0.S4s  5              . dm           -0t.                              b L.55,iNcSts Ps4- 1   ft."  -.at r 'li -.1-    tS- 9c   cc-cl
in.LftcSEEEE ms.fld SMILE, ftc~. da  a07 EE. -" ltg.5                                     fttM a4c     54        n   ct  cmtsc   i.,is.Ihlct.n
44.15.4 ti. cs.c.lca  cui.  5.iSic. 1st .54 siA5.5~  mlii a*99?     .igs~ti55t51 cciV4ll 415 d    t.a V c.Z 5t.t i.eI-s ltiitcc.cl  II         -
iblid (.M"c S-l inc. 4..c S   .l.ci  -  mat-EL  - csc   CEEE-  5.                          Idcs5aci              aes.tcSIi                     .mc     5.           -nt -
cc- mis. i-c s.c.. In  ltdtnE 5. cus. at gEIa; 9.   nacci.fs*kslaIai  In    ctS   -tt   It-I.dl
d-i 4m dcrsaWI te  Iii. Isbic.: iug. two5 EEEL                                         ---Icc  aas   lIa  IbcE sea.  gN,IEII Scat cc  .ccci t            t4   1.
4c=.:! .S   c           -s Icrdoc   *i iI-l   .  tc   aa
t.icdEsIcl, .  inS..cc.9    ...Sm    .tlccec     4c
11111 1  - clSacn  CrEE .1 va        i it. E   I-cm                            P4as-I,t.c  . ` cccgclc`        - sIS   ac.M cIc
!cfit.qtmtS.ccstit       ."ccc  - cp_lad ec.a     icui-. EE. ,
-  c  ata.   anatU.  mi [sWAn.  1545 ad ties ts.-
acac.cflct.INsc  Ic.ncct 'If  ..i1c      aS g.apcl 
!Lmw sc.p4.(tnc. g.n. a    `E9.1  a;,.  ..ls.5.5...  -c.WE                                                                                     -Elssn   si1. EEd MEE4 25,"ILcc
EEEc, cdla. (I-s.&c1.514  n'is  En4.-                til    I                                                                 Si     1t  -I-t4s  =c   sStlIcl  d.
scasaca- 1EEELEIIISt  ..s.5 its. PEII c   m..."          . "rsm..saIl
,cEEEllhW  -%J.) clsi..a   s  1.9  tcstIsP. IsujiIc.  L. c
ci.. "t.    ubS  r-ttic -   -OM"t ban    a   ma Ibi no1a
fa     -v  ny4       ce...4Aid         ...ea   OwS  am   .9I
ft       igsaEEaa.. c',  ci  lade dcl 14 cm-.0.t.
EEEWEE  ;i n.ME MEEI'ld         REEa ma Ii cEcc . dficw".it.cc    .   Edt c
ME atf Ic 1.14.14m EEEE    ,vl  a..ME a-..t
PEEWlq    USE         P.g~~tc    a~~
pc   EEsCi  C   Sli". .ma  awagm .  Icl-"i   41i .p-           tl
cb SsItEa 4555.5E. gIsh - ECIEtat C-EMEE. ci C`.c.silb
a  acuw  4. n.c.~4.n. c,nEEEa cr54.            IL.E   lad-   c
cI.MLEE5E   .1.5.



4., S
c-  PU c*p1?       1981 0320a
CMU 0571C PUoSUC 1  19283/6  h/* L  W  OW  U3  Cs  eatat P11g..) I/
as# Us .                      31955/-19s5/60  1_V    1-9"6/65  1963/64-1969f70  19?O01l-1174/75  1975/?6197"9/6a
GOP at Karbat PrIcma               170.74   100.0                    L.i               3.L              3.7              2.9              4.1
Croom _omatic twmmt                 41.3  24.6
Crag National Sing                  36.12    22.3
COrrm   Accomt UaLam       t      - 3.87   - 2.3
OUTPU0. LAME POECS AMD PROUCrzVrU 1K1
c  (t factor so)                   Fo rce # . trli
Im"M                          L   a  S              .- *it rPer Vorba
Agrialcuur                          51.7                 3S.1        172.7     70.6      2"        5s0
Industry                           35.2                 23.9          31.0     12.5    1114        18
Sarvlca                            60.4                  41.0         40.3     16.5     1504       24
Tot"AmOrns                         147.5                i.o .  *                                    U
Camral Gover t  */e                                 Cntrsl   _    t
Xa. 51e.            2 of CDO                   Ja. 3Ue.            S et GCo
182/63       982683    1 J75-/1962/63          19          1962/63 _ 19/791982
Currea  Secait.                      333.34      20.1           19.5                175.61       10.7          10.5
O rrt ezpaadturea                    360.09      20.7           19.0                 36.59       11.5          10.8
Cuarrent Iuarpl/D ct                -  6.73     - 0.4            0.s               - 12.96      -        OJ   - 0.6
Capit              r fI              131.23       6.0            S.1                  f.l3   '     -'5           .'7
aterna  AlUca_e   (mea) d             19.30       1.2            1.0
MZ. CNDIrr AM  MCS                  1970/71  1975/74  B9717                      1"0t I1/80  l     ULlf    M   brMar 1   IlUobrWa    1964
Maney aA Quaaai !many                109.8   224.8   329.1   401.1   472.3    555.5   624.9   723.8             711.7          S45.7
Bank Credit to CGvernenct (eat)       54.6   106.3   137.3    159.3   20O.1   257.2   309.1   352.4             353.5          40.6
Bank Credit to Cinrscal s cter        64.6   156.2   212.2   255-3   310.1    363.5   430.5   504.5             4877 776.4
(Parcmatmas or ladez mbera)                             APr-Feb 1982/83  Apr-Feb 19B3/3
ikmay ad Qmaai Mommy as a Z
of GOP                              27.3     30.3    36.7    41.1        .1     43.6     42.0    44.0
dhe1.naal prime Indeff
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0   173.0   165.8    165.8   217.6   257.3   231.4   236.6             2U.1                314.3
Annaa p.eCa.tea cheoge  in:
Wholesale  Prie Inde                   7.7    -1.1       5.2      -       17.1     13.2      9.4      2.4         2.3                9.3
sank Credt to covernmenc (nat)        15.0    22.7    16.3    16.0    25.4         26.5    20.2    14.0          21.0 &j            16.9 hi
Cak Credit to C_rcSU  Sector          19.4    22.7    12.6    20.2        21.5     17.2    18.4    17.2          15.5 Al            17.9 h/
-us Var capita G estimate I.s at market p-ce. uaSin  lbrld bank Atma  earadco6gy. home pwarSd 1975.491.
A11 Octr c_avaraoam  to dollera  In ths table ae at the avera  echamg  rA  prevolUm  durin  the parSw covered.
bt 0a1g  actuates. CascraL Statistical o0asaago.
c/ CoaUd trde treed   a of GNP at factur cat wanin_. lcludin  me ob_lario  bafra first yeW And OM  Jeaovatlem  after last year of
listed perid.
el hand DamI etl_mat  of mt dahburainmt of ceacaaaieaa aid D1D I.
*/  Tmfter batem Costra Cd Stae  hae beem mtted er-
T/ All I1an  am  adveeCee to thlid Portio have beam matted emt.
I  Percentage chbes  tro  amd-ch 1962 toea d-aerbeary 1963.
!' Percsntag  chane frob and-March 1"3 to a_d-rebaay 1964.
if Total. Labor Forc  ad percentage brakdow  fre 1901  nema.  uclud;e data for Aass.



15gm 5 of S
ALANICZ OF PAUNSr                       196013    1961/62   192/83A' 163/B6L'          inUaC SZ  Worn (AWUEX 1979I80-1362/13J I
(Uss  mBa                                                                                                             Us  M.    X2
Exports of Coods gl                      8.50      8,519  S.001  Lal             0      a,a6rtu   Gose r/               no        12
Imarts of Goods jI                     -16,204   -15.500   -14.249   -14.412            T..                             455        4
red. Blane                             - 7,700   - 6.981   - 4.248   - 5.946            Cm                              77S9
SFS (nat)                                1.365       97'       940        56            Clothlt                         573        7
teetr _       th r Poucts   480            4
Resource Dslancs                       - 6.335   - 6,007   - 5.30B    5.090             Juts Imlfe   t                  333        &
Iroe Ore                        380        5
aInterest Ice (nc) h/                      600       2U6   -  415   -   418              Caote TaS"iel                  32S        4
Met Tranfers 1/                          2.771     2.318    13.49      1.790            sugr                             14 
Othsrs                        3.849       44
salsocs an Currnt ACC                  - 2.9"   - 3.603   - 3.874   - 3.961*
Official Lomas 4 Grant                                                                  Total                         8.243      10o
Gross Diabur     ts                      2,651     2.570     3.036     3.441              MWIAL DOr. PAC  31. 136
amrtlon                                -   700   -   674   -  701   -   783
1155 61111o
rransctIon with  lw (tm)                 1.035       690     1.980     1.295            Outstand in    Disbursed                  19.6
LLL Other Ita   o                      -   367   - 1.531        12       531            usdisursd                                 11.1
Outstanding includig Ondishurssd          30.7
Increase In Rassrvs  C-)                   345    2.39   -   503  -   536
Cross  esrses (end yer) 1/        6,659            4.461     4.944     5.500           ODf' SUVICe W1  108 1932163 1f             10.1 par cent
Met Reserves (so  yar) m                 4.532     3.497     2.03      1.9
IS331114 LaDin, MANS 31. 19844/
Fuel mad Related MaterIals
us$ milio-
Iumorts (Petrol Im) Si                   6.672     5.590     4,f13     3.395                                                 USS   Im
Outtani  sad Dabursa                1.326     7.924
Undisbrsed                          2.0e1     4.331
Outstandin  incluing Uadabursed   3.907    12.255
RATE OF EMOCI
June 1966 to eld-Decfler 1971      :  USSI.00 - Re 7.50
Re 1.00 - USSO.13333
Mid-Decauber 1971 to end-June 1972 :    SI.00 - Us 7.27927
Ra 1.00 - USS0.137376
After and-June 1972                :  Floetg Rate
Spot Rate and-March 1963           :  15I.00 - Rm 10.0501
as 1.00 - n98t0997
Spot Rate and-Harch  1984          :  USSI.00 - Re 10.7181
ts 1.00 - 115-0.0933
iI Estimated
i Figures giwv  coer *1  Lnvstust le cemm (net).  Major psyate  are Interset on foregn loans ad chargee paid to Dl, an ejor rsceopt tI
ineret eared on foreign aset
'LI  FiraCOs gvee include worker' rdsttance_ but exclude officil Srant assiste asis a   cluded within official lon sd greats. and
non-rsidest dposits wbich are Included within aLl otber I.
al Exclude wt use of DQF credit.
n/ AmortltIon and iLnteret paymers -n foreign lose  as a percentage of total current receipte.
at  loclud-es zchange ret. adjustenta to the valuation of reserve  ad fltmoclag of Imalace  in rupse trade.
Ei Excluding gold.
M1 llt of crude petrolw sp,orts-
r, Including Iron and stel.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
TEE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATENENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 303 1984)
USS million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDAJ/      Undisbursed 2/
r      50 Loans/                                              2,164.0          -
93 Credits fully disbursed                                -        5,535.2           _
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -           30.0          8.15
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development        -           18.0          0.03
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrig-tion           145.0          -           24.94
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                     25.0          -           11.19
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport              25.0          -            1.17
680-'U    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          8.45
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development            -           20.0          1.65
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0          7.32
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0         -             2.62
720-IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0          1.52
728-IN    1977     Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0          1.34
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0         52.65
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           8.0           4.93
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -            1.72
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -            3.60
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6         37.38
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Pover                   -          200.0         30.11
806-IN    1978     Ja-u-Kashmir Horticulture             -           14.0          9.91
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5          8.40
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -           16.0          4.86
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0          -           15.10
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -          i5C-3         43.85
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II               -          196.0        141.11
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -          190.0         25.05
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           5.28
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -           27.0         14.06
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0          2.94
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -           30.0          0.83
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -           50.00
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0         10.71
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0         38.32
899-IN    1979     Mabarashtra Water Supply              -           48.0          6.72
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          4.45
925-IN    1979     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -           23.0          2.24
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0         42.74
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0          6.51
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                      -           20.0         16.07
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -           46.0         27.63



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA IA     Undisburmed O
1003-IN    1l980    Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0          19.48
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0         94.88
1012-IN    1980     Cashevnut                             -           22.0          16.11
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -          300.0        159.67
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0          7.56
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -           56.0         17.76
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0         30.32
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0         49.09
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                   100.0          -            5.37
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -           25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0        113.52
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -            20.31
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                     -           35.0         14.38
1078-IN    1981     Mabanadi Barrages                     -           83.0         42.64
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0         19.49
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0         85.73
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0         89.58
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0         37.68
1125-IN    1981     lazira Fertilizer Project             -          400.0        117.86
1135-IN    1981     Mabarashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0         13.92
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0         17.08
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0         28.05
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -          125.0         70.25
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0        273.61
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0        154.99
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0          -           18.15
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0         19.92
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0         15.13
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                          150.0          -           57.70
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Pover II         300.0          -          269.54
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                             190.0          -            0.43
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0          4.69
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -           96.43
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5          -          274.48
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -           20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0         30.57
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0         60.11
1286-IN    1983     J-aiu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0         24.97
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -            -
Irrigation II                      -           31.0         19.65
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0        105.96
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -          140.52
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0          -          197.04



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ sillion
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank        IDA jj      Undisbursed  /
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         177.00
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development        139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                  -         150.0         114.38
1332-IY    1983      U.P. Public Tubevells II              -          101.0          89.79
t      1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Rydro Pover            -          170.0         148.38
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power          156.4         -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III         -         147.0         132.10
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization          -          32.0          26.95
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         22.7         -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Pover Transmission           250.7         -           250.07
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -            45.89
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban                  24.1         -            24.04
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II                   -         105.0          83.20
1424-IN    1984      Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -           31.0          29.37
1426-IN    1984      Population III                         -          70.0          66.23
1432-IN    1984      Karnataka Social Forestry             -           27.0          25.57
2387-IN    1984      Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0                      249.38
2393-IN    1984      Dudhichua Coal                      151.0                      150.62
2403-IN    1984      Cambay Basin Petroleum               242.5                     241.90
2415-IN    1984      Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer           203.6                      203.09
1483-IN    1984      Upper Ganga Irrigation                           125.0         117.38
1496-IN    1984      Gujarat Medium Irrigation                        172.0         164.14
2417-IN    1984      Railways Electrification*           280.7                      280.70
2442-IN    1984      Farakka II Thermal Power*           300.8                      300.80
Total                                    6,526.3    12,268.3
of which has been repaid               1.350.8        173.0
Total nov outstanding                    5,175.5    12,095.3
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA i         5,175.5    12,095.3
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          2,712.69    3,494.35
jj  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1984.
OI  Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount (USS mill,on)
Fiscal
Year                     ComDanY                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -       1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -       0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -       1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -       0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3      1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1      1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                         6.6         -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8        -       18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.5        -       15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.1        -        8.1
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        3.7        -        3.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         210.7      12.1    222.8
Less:   Sold                          53.0        3.4     56.4
Repaid                       34.0         -      34.0
Cancelled                    33.0        1.4     34.4
...uW dalt.                  90.7       7.3      98.0
iUdisbrrsed                  44.1         -       44.1
,~~~=            ----B



ANlE= III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
NARMNDA RIVER DEVELOPMENT (GUJARAT)
WATER DELIVEIRY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTRY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1:      Timetable of Key Eveuts
(a)  Time taken by the Borrover to Prepare the project
About four years.
(b)  The amencv which has prepared the proiect
The Governments of Gujarat with assistance from
consultants and IDA staff.
Xc) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of first
mission to consider the proiect
August/December 1980.
'd)  Dates of alpraisal missions
March, June, September 1983, and August 1984.
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations
February 1, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
June 30, 1985
Section II:     Special Conditions
(a)  GOG would establish a Consultancy Board by April 1,
1985 and employ consultants to assist in critical
project tasks (para 47);
(b)  GOG would allocate water, provide services to
farmers, operate and maintain project facilities in
accordance with concepts, policies, principles satis-
factory to IDA (pare 51);



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
BANK GROUP LENDING FOR IRRIGATION AND EXTENSION IN GUJARAT
1.      The Bank Group has assisted Gujarat to finance a number of
projects for irrigation development. The first Credit (Cr. 13-IN, 1961,
US$4.5 million) financed construction of Shetrunji's canal system. The
project failed to achieve its agricultural objectives because of inade-
quate agricultural supporting services and lagging construction of field
channels and drains. The lessons learned were taken into account in
preparation of the Kadana Irrigation Project (Cr. 176-IN, 1970,
US$35 million), which emphasized on-farm development and the agricultural
support program. Due to extreme floods and other construction problems,
the project was completed two years behind schedule. However, the project
area now is one of the most prosperous and productive areas in Gujarat.
2.      Three IDA assisted projects presently are under implementation in
the State: the Gujarat Irrigation Project (Cr. 808-IN. 1978,
US$85 million), the Gujarat Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1011-IN, 1980,
US$175 million) and the Gujarat Medium II Irrigation Project (Cr. 1429,
1984, US$172 million). The three credits are financing nearly all
Gujarat-s annual irrigation investments. The projects inclade operational
improvements and modernization of existing irrigation systems, construc-
tion of new schemes, small scale watershed development, reclamation of
saline coastal lands and establishment of a vater management training
institute. New planning procedures and improved standards for design and
construction of irrigation projects have been introduced. Initial project
implementation suffered from veak management and lower than expected
quality of design and construction, partly due to the complex and innova-
tive nature of many components. However, implementation performance is
gradually improving and the two credits are expected to strengthen the
capacity of the Irrigation Department in Gujarat to design, construct and
operate projects which cum deliver timely and reliable water supply.
3.      Credit No. 808-IN was a first time-slice operation to support
medium irrigation projects (MIPs) which individually are too small to
justify Bank participation. The time-slice was to finance:
Ci) construction of new MIPs; (ii) modernization of existing schemes;
(iii) a network of automatic discharge measuring stations; and
(iv) establishment o. a Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI).  The
distribution system was to be designed for rotational water supply (RUS)
and to be lined to the 8 ha outlet. Individual MIPs were to be appraised
by an Appraisal Committee (AC) especially established for this purpose in
the Central Water Commission. The AC was authorized to approve MIPs
meeting the technical criteria, costing less than Rs 70 million and having
a benefit/cost ratio higher than 1.0.  All others were to be approved by
IDA.
4.      In 1978 the US Government approved US$30 million of USAID funds
for the medium irrigation project. Accordingly, the project scope was
extended to cover an accelerated MIP program. The actual cost of most
MIPs have proved to be higher than estimates due to: (i) a revision of
hydrology and dam design; Cii) an increase in the cost of cement; and
(iii) a higher than estimated cost of lining. By mid-March 1984, IDA



ANNX I-V
Page 2 of 3
disbursements amounted to US$79 million (about 93Z of the credit) and GOG
expected to complete by the end of Marcb 1984 works to fully utilize both
IDA and USAID funds.
5.      Twenty-nine HIPs have been cleared by the AC.  In most of the HIPs
work concentrated on headworks. Consequently, secondary canals in some of
the MIPs, and works on the minor distribution system in most of them are
lagging behind schedule. Construction of the dams in some kIPs was
delayed because the flood hydrology had to be revised following an
unprecedented cyclonic storm in 1979 in the Sahrashtra region.  This bas
delayed completion of many of the dams by about a year. During the first
two-to thrxe years of project implementation, the most serious constraint
was shortage of staff, which was substantially resolved at the beginnling
of 1982 through recruitment of new staff. Te_hnical standards which were
initially inadequate have also improved considerably folloving Bank inter-
vention and training courses at WALNI. Quality control and construction
stard'rds were also improved after the issuance of new standards by GOG.
The project has suffered from poor management. A study aimed at irproving
planning through the use of small computers has been undertaken by the
Operations Research Group (a consultancy group). The network of automatic
discharge measuring stations has been completed.
6.      Overall, the project achieved most of its objectives.  The Bank
Pssisted with the design of the minor system through establishment of
pilot water management areas and training courses for desigc. engineers
were conducted_  In addition, GOG has initiated pilot RWS activities witb
assistance from the Water Management Team at the Bank-s New Delhi Office.
A WALMI has been established in temporary buildings and a permanent campus
is being constructed near the Agricultural University at Anand.
Sub-projects were appraised in accordance witb Bank guidelines. The MIPs
started under the project cover a total area of 213,300 ha of cultivable
command area, and in 72,800 ha, over 50Z of the distribution system was
completed, which compares favorably with the appraisal target of
63,000 ha. Modernization works have been completed over about 22,000 ha,
and similar works at various stages of completion are underway in another
area of about 140,000 ha, which also compares favorably with the appraisal
estimate of 55,000 ha. Finally, the water management studies conducted
under the project resulted in development of detailed design and operation
criteria which have been incorporated in Phase II.
7.      The Gujarat II Irrigation Project (Credit 1011-IN) was the most
complex irrigation project in India until the preparation of the Narmada
Basin investments. It was a sector lending operation. Project components
included: protection and reclamation of saline coastal lands, operational
improvements and modernization of existing irrigation systems, and con-
struction of new irrigation systems. Institution building to improve the
ability of the State engineers in the project design and implementation
was a major Bank objective under the project.
8.      The complex and innovative nature of the project led to some
delays during the start-up period. The project suffered from overall weak
management and implementation planning exacerbated by procurement problems



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
and some indecision on project scope. The quality of canal network con-
struction was initially disappointing due to poor training and inex-
perience of Irrigation Department staff responsible for the work.
9.      While the project remains behind schedule, there has been a con-
siderable acceleration in progress since early 1982 as a result of
improved staffing of the Irrigation Department and more concentrated Bank
supervision. Progress is expected to continue to improve in the future as
most of the project management problems have been resolved. The
Government of Gujarat has established a Water and Land Nanagement
Institute in the Irrigation Department which has improved GOG's project
implementation capabilities and improved construction standards of the
minor irrigation network. GOG has also established a central cell for
project monitoring and is developing an improved management information
system, both of which will further enhance project implementation.
Asricultural Extension and Research in Guiarat
10.     The IDA assisted "Training and Visit' (T&V) system of agricultural
extension was introduced in Gujarat in 1979 under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project (Credit 862-IN). Under this project,
regular demonstrations and up-to-date advice on farming practices were
provided to the farmers through regular visits from trained village exten-
sion workers (VEWs). The T&V system seeks to reorganize extension staff
to work exclusively on extension in a single line of command under the
district agricultural officer or the Department of Agriculture and
provides for facilities and equipment to support extension and training
programs. It also provides for increased staff and adequate field
coverage aiming at one VEW serving a group of about 500-800 farm families.
The progress with the extension project has generally been satisfactory.
Thus, extension in the project area is adequate to support the Sardar
Sarovar and the Water Delivery Projects. Furthermore, a second phase
extension project in Gujarat which aims at further broadening and deepen-
ing agricultural extension acti-ties is at an advanced stage of
preparation.
11.     The Gujarat Agricultural University (GAU) is responsible for all
agricultural research activities through its four campuses at Anand,
Dantivada, Junagadh, and Navsari, representing four broad agro-climatic
zones of the State. Research facilities of GAU have been strengthened
under the National Agricultural Research Project (Credit 855-IN). GAU
maintains 13 research stations specializing in different crops. Their
work involves, among others, selection and testing of superior varieties,
improved cultural practices, and plant protection. Eacb campus conducts
locality-specific research to meet the needs of the farmers in the area
and coordinates the research activities of these stations. Research
finding are tested through a network of 38 sub-stations throughout the
State before dissemination to the farmers. Technical breakthroughs
achieved by GAU in pearl millet, cotton, and castor, in particular, have
helped to improve the productivity of these crops in the State and other
parts of the country. GAU has released 77 improved varieties of different
crops having better yield potential, and quality characteristics.



ANNE V
Procureuent
Procurement Method
Item                               ICB        LCB        Other       Total
1. Works
Main Canal                  346.5       -0-         -O-        346.5
Branch Canal                 30.3      33.6         -0-         63.9
Distribution &
Drainage System             19.9      20.7         -O-         50.6
Sub-total             396.7      64.3         0         461.0
2. Training & Technical
Assistance                                          1.2          1.2
Total                 396.7      64.3        1.2        462.2
Percentage of Total            86Z        14%   (about 0.22)      0OOS



74-                                       76
I N D I A
o    , 10                              200             NARMADA RIVER DEVELC
KILOMETERS                                                   BASIN  PROJF-r
PROJECT:
p'                                                -EjI  Sordar Sarovar Dam Site
t                  Sq                                                   Main Canal
Branch Canals
-      To Dl       p                               CD   Proposed Dams
-1t  b                                 ___  oMain Conal Under Construction
24"
\    ,/~HAF$A *r5<I
\  MoUhesono   -    OM1ESHM(,,
<  I Noritnana gaI
WAA         L     "3I                       Ratlam          M     A    D    H    Y
Ahmedbad   xi,             ^6; j                      P     /\f
PA NA A-                                     4p__               NAR M    '
-% N                                                                          "IO D  - 440    
V,         JOBAT'~~~~~~~~~~~~~  MANAA 
MANESH WAR    SHWAR
OMrA ASI WAR 10
: S? \ t) ; : - --.                                                      jjf    0        ,, rO  A khola
zi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I    To5om/bey         *474    MAHARAZSHTRA                        76e
.~ ~~~T .8.                               .b.            



I BRD 17694
780                          ~~~~~~~PAKISTAN  J      W a 1             AG DEHr
78                                         N\                                         q 
\_. JJ  Area of MaX/p        BANGLADESH(:,
MENT-GUJARAT                                                                jII  N D                                  A 
TS
EXISTING:                                                       A,obio,                           Boay  of Bengal  j
Dams                                                               Sea
Rivers and Streafns
) Basin Boundary                       N
National Highways                    J                                                      {"\SRI LANKA
State Highways                                                                                  )
Railroads
Principal Cities                   |                     ____
Airports                                                      80                                            82
State Boundaries                                                                    AII 
International Boundaries       so
24-_
-~~~~~~~ It --
A g2 Rvt>;   _ 
rf)AR~,  ~                                      Nrsi bpr   'BAGI 
,/ (       Hosbangobad             MwHoJIARe.FMW   HER.
* TAWA                 5HAr*ARf wX J v > NARMAA
M-ORAS  LV  __    _    )Mc ndlo  .   BLIRNHER  K_obir Chabutar
1~~~6~~,)WA I~~~.                                             I,                   A-VA
:_~~~~~ (</ _ > > / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22'
Tr nw has been preDpt They rbeV Ba*s swar exc,uswe* go re eco oerbere of
Me leaders and's ezc*an'Or Me dOff~  M Of The Wbdd Baw* wid Die teftf&hbOat
Fanc. Conwatn The deuowbaos used and the bovWares shown an Ihs flV do noa
iiTV. on Me pwt d/ The w 8& Ban eVW Ve btna Fr,wice Capoab' al') `Nd  
an Mle ega slalus of anV tento or an endorsemert or accepftae of such baWudaes
78                                            80                                           JANUARY 1984j






