Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14160
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1553-IN)
MARCH 29, 1995
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ondy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Name of Currency:  - Rupee (RpJRs.)
Rate of Exchange:   - At Appraisal (August 1984)          USS 1.00 = Rs. 12.00
- During Implementation,
(FY 1988 - FY 1993)                 US$ 1.00 = Rs. 18.72
- At Completion (Closing
Date July 1,1992)                   USS 1.00=Rs. 25.60
Fiscal Year of Borrower: April I to March 31
Abbreviations
NCA        Narmada Control Authority
BOC        Board of Consultants                              NDD        Narmada Development Department
CAD        Command Area Development                          NPG        Narmada Planning Group
CADA       Command Area Development Authority                NRD        Narmada River Development
CCA        Cultivable Command Area                           NWDT       Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal
CHPH       Canal Head Powerhouse                             OD         Operational Directives
CWC        Central Water Commission                          ODA        Overseas Development Agency
CPU        Central Procurement Unit                          OMS        Operational Manual Statement
DCA        Development Credit Agreement                      O&M        Operations and Maintenance
D,M&I    Domestic Municipal and Industrial                   ORG        Operations Research Group
DOA        Department of Agriculture                         PCR        Project Completion Report
ED         Executive Director of the Bank                    PFP        "Planning for Prosperity" by SSNNL
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment                   QC/QA      Quality Control/Quality Assurance
ERR        Economic Rate of Retum                            RWS        Rotational Water Supply
EL         Elevation                                         SA         Service Area
FSL        Full Supply Level                                 SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
GAU        Gujarat Agriculture University                    SDR        Special Drawing Rights
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                            SDV        Supplementary Data Volumes of the SAR
GOG        Govemment of Gujarat                              SMS        Subject Matter Specialist
GOI        Government of India                               SSP        Sardar Sarovar Project
GOMP       Government of Madhya Pradesh                      SSNNL    Sardar Sarovar Narmnada Nigam Limited
GOM        Government of Maharashtra                         TDS        Total Dissolved Salts
GOR        Government of Rajasthan'                          UK         United Kingdom
ICA        Irrigated Command Area                            UNDP       United Nations Development Program
ICB        Internal Competitive Bidding                      VEW        Village Extension Worker
MAF        Million Acre Feet (1,235 Mm3)                     VSA        Village Service Area
MIS        Management Information System                     WALMI   Water and Land Management Institute
MOEF       Ministry of Environment and Forests               WUA         Water Users' Association
Glossary
Chak               - Irrigation service area of about 40 ha in size below the outlet from the minor
Distributary       - Irrigation channel, offRaking from the main or branch canal, with capacity greater than 700 liters/second
Field Channel      - Irrigation channel offlaking from a minor to irrigation farms in the chak
Ha                 - Hectare (approx. 2.5 acres)
Hot Season         - April to June
Kharif             - Wet season; June to October
Minor              - Irrigation channels with capacity less than 700 I/s and serving chaks
Nigam               - Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigan Limited
Rabi               - Winter season/dry season; November to March
Taluka              - Sub-division of a district



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:    Project Completion Report on India - Narmada River Development (Gujarat)
Water Delivery and Drainage Project (Credit 1553-IN)
1.         Attached are Parts I and II of the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Narmada
River Development (Gujarat) Water Delivery and Drainage Project (Credit 1553-IN). Part I was
prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. The Borrower contributed Part II; in addition, many of
the Borrower's comments on Part I are recorded as footnotes to the relevant paragraphs. Four
supporting annexes and Part III (133 additional pages) are not included but are available on request.
This PCR should be read in conjunction with the PCR on the parallel Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power
Project-SSDPP (Credit 1552-iN/Loan 2497-IN).
2.         This project and SSDPP form part of the Narmada River Development Plan (NRDP)
which aims to harness the Narmada River through a series of dams and associated investments for
irrigation, energy and domestic/municipal/industrial (DMI) benefits, largely in three states-Gujarat,
Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Through the deliberations of the Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal
(NWDT) in December 1979, the Government of Gujarat (GOG) would have a 32 percent share of the
water, receive nearly all of the NRDP irrigation benefits (Rajasthan receiving a minor allocation at the
northwest extreme of the main irrigation canal), and correspondingly assume most of the direct
irrigation and DMI development costs, as well as 50 percent of the Sardar Sarovar Dam costs. The
project encompasses a three-year time slice of the development program which includes main canal
excavation and lining, installation of a water regulation system, seven river cross-drainage structures,
construction of 13 branch canals, and development of 12 land blocks with associated distributory
canals and drainage. Partial construction of most of these investments was envisaged in the time slice.
Training and technical assistance components were also included. The credit was approved in March
1985 and closed in July 1992, 39 months behind schedule.
3.         Initial implementation was delayed by lack of GOI forestry and environmental clearances.
By the final closing date, the planned construction of the main canal had been realized and installation
of regulators had met 88 percent of target. However, branch canal construction was less than 60
percent of target, and hydraulic structures only 35 percent of target. Construction in the development
blocks had not begun due to delayed designs and high-priced tenders. A comprehensive operation and
maintenance manual for the canal operation was prepared; bids were invited for the detailed design,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
installation and commissioning of a remote control monitoring system (financing of this was
transferred to the continuing SSDPP Loan, but this too was canceled prior to contract financing); and a
practical computerized management information system (MIS) was developed and used (as for
SSDPP). The project set fully satisfactory engineering and construction standards for all major works.
However, project implementation delays continue to this day (see Memorandum on SSDPP).
4.         The 1979 NWDT made no reference to canal-affected families (CAFs). During project
preparation and appraisal, both the Borrower and the Bank apparently assumed that CAFs would be
treated as in previous Bank-financed infrastructure projects, i.e. through cash compensation for lost
assets in accordance with the Land Acquisition Act, as amended in 1984. Accordingly, no reference
was made to CAFs in either the SAR or legal documents. However, during implementation it became
clear that in many cases the compensation paid to CAFs did not fully cover the cost of new land (with
land value appreciating due to prospects for irrigation access) let alone the value of lost fixed assets.
A Bank mission in 1989 confirmed that the existing arrangements would not ensure that all CAFs
would be able to recover a living standard at least equal to that before displacement (as required by
the 1980 OMS 2.33). In 1991, the GOG, in response to Bank recommendations, engaged a local
management institute to assess the number of CAFs and their needs. This report indicated that a very
high number of persons would be affected, and recommended a compensation policy which was more
than GOG had considered. In response, GOG undertook to do its own in-house investigation rather
than accept the consultant's report.
5.         An independent review (IR) of SSDPP and this project was commissioned by the
President of the Bank in 1991 in response to serious criticisms of resettlement (R&R) and
environmental aspects of the projects by non-governmental organizations. The ensuing June 1992
report criticized the Bank for its lack of adherence to OMS 2.33 and the GOG for lack of a reliable
database and inadequate compensation arrangements. A Bank mission in July 1992 confirmed these
findings and proposed a number of measures to address the R&R problems. Arrangements for
treatment of CAFs became part of the action plan stipulated by the Bank in October 1993 as a
condition for continued funding of SSDPP (see Memorandum on SSDPP). The required
socioeconomic survey of CAFs has been completed and will firm up final figures when published.
Indications are that 68,000 people have so far been affected by canal construction; 230,000 people are
likely to be affected (about 7 percent of the command area population) by the total program (which
compares with about 130,000 persons to be affected by SSDPP). An interim R&R policy has been
issued providing market value compensation and allocation of a 0.5 ha of replacement irrigated land
for those losing more than 50 percent of their land and who are left with less than 1.0 ha.
6.         It is clear that the Bank did not follow its own environmental guidelines, which came
into existence before the final appraisal mission in August 1984 (OMS 2.36 of May 1984). The 1984
OMS was explicit in its requirement that, at appraisal, staff should assess environmental findings,
evaluate the magnitude and timing of any adverse effects of the project, and specify environmental
measures to be undertaken during the project; legal agreements would covenant these actions to meet
the objectives of OMS 2.36. A number of ad hoc environmental studies on the possible effects of the
irrigation and drainage networks were undertaken by GOG in preparation for the required GOI
clearance. Based on these findings, the SAR referred to the need to prepare, during implementation, a
comprehensive environmental assessment and an action plan for any necessary mitigatory measures.
In the Project Agreement with GOG, action on the health measures was covenanted, but specific
reference was not made to the overall environmental plan which was an obligation under the Project



3
Agreement with GOG for SSDPP, where an overall plan was to be produced by December 1985. The
absence of an environmental plan by Board presentation meant that OMS 2.36 was not satisfied. In
practice, the plan was not submitted in December 1985, nor by an extended deadline in 1989. As in
the case of SSDPP, the GOI forestry clearance was still pending at Credit approval; GOI
environmental and forestry clearances were obtained in 1987, conditional on specific enviromnental
studies and plans being completed by 1989 (see Memorandum on SSDPP). Ultimately, the required
plan was submitted in August 1993.
7.         Coordination by the Narmada Control Authority of the environmental work under the two
parallel projects was weak. Bank staff gave more emphasis to environmental issues after 1987 but
even then health issues and environmental training programs did not receive adequate attention. The
1992 IR report criticized the lack of compliance with GOI and Bank environmental guidelines and
regulations and the futility of the Bank's "incremental" approach. It expressed concem about the
probability of soil and water-logging problems in coastal areas and the lack of adequate studies to
support the assumptions on soil and drainage conditions. It also maintained that the Bank and GOG
had not adequately addressed the public health issue. The Bank agreed with the criticisms on the
absence of environmental plans and slow progress on health issues, but asserted that the long gestation
period of the project meant that any identified untoward effects could be managed, and contended that
the concerns regarding waterlogging and salinity were not as serious as suggested.
8.         The July 1992 Bank mission confirmed that delays in environmental plans and actions
had not caused serious consequences to date, but reported that GOG was cognizant of the urgent need
for action as identified by earlier Bank missions and the IR. The completion of an Environmental
Impact Assessment for the command area and adequate implementation of Gujarat's malaria control
program were subsequently included as benchmarks to be achieved by March 31, 1993 to enable
continued funding of SSDPP (para. 5). With the help of ODA-funded consultants a plan was
produced, but GOG in September 1993 indicated that the final product for the command area would
not be available until December 1994 as studies on ground water modelling, drainage and secondary
salinization still had to be completed; this plan is only now nearing completion. Staffing and funding
of the general health program operations continued to be problematical.
9.         The IR also raised questions regarding the project's hydrological asumptions. These
related to the validity of river flow calculations used to allocate water shares among the states, and the
capacity of the system to meet the planned water requirements of the command area The Borrower's
Central Water Commission (CWC) and a Bank consultant subsequently reviewed the project's
hydrology. Both the CWC and the consultant confirmed the adequacy of the flow series used in the
model. However, a 1994 review by an independent team of experts appointed by the GOI could not
come to a firm conclusion on the hydrology and recommended a reexanination of the "dependable
water availability" issue. Thus, apart from reduced energy considerations, there remains concern about
the reliability of the estimates for water availability for the intended irrigation program in the
command areas. In a simplified operational study, the consultant projected that, although the risk of
shortages increased in drier years after the year 2000, dependability was high for DM1 and irigation
requirements until the year 2024 when the NWDT would revisit awards to the riparian states; adopting
a lower level in the irrigation by-pass tunnel in the Sardar Sarovar dam would ensure demands were
met in full to 2024 (but this has not yet been agreed by Madhya Pradesh - see SSDPP Memorandum);
and after 2024 dependability would be significantly reduced, with dry season crop requirements being
met only in 50 to 60 percent of years. Bank staff, however, consider the consultant has overestimated



4
water availability and underestimated crop water requirements, and therefore the PCR analysis uses the
coefficients assumed at project appraisal. The PCR concludes that, in practice, it is likely that the
available water for irrigation will not permit the complete coverage of the command area as planned,
and recommends that the best option would be to proceed in a step-by-step fashion, giving priority to
the development of irrigation in areas yielding better agricultural returns, and the delivery of only DMI
water to the areas less suited to irrigation. A detailed updating of the operational model is being
undertaken by an Indian consultancy.
10.       An economic rate of return (ERR) was not calculated separately for the Water Delivery
and Drainage Project, but was estimated for the combined irrigation, power and DMI investments in
the first phase of the NRDP (see Memorandum on SSDPP). The reestimated ERR in the PCR was 12
percent and a series of sensitivity calculations, including the impact of substantial delays in the
completion of works and commencement of benefits and reductions in command area irrigation,
continued to yield an ERR in excess of 10 percent. The analysis shows that the economic benefits
resulting from power are higher than from irrigation, and the benefits from DMI will be higher than
initially anticipated. If less water than originally projected is available for irrigation in the command
area, this should lead to a more rational program of irrigation which avoids high cost development or
maintenance options associated with difficult drainage or existing or potential salinity. It is also
plausible that the areas which initially receive irrigation will adopt a higher irrigation intensity and a
higher-value cropping pattern than assumed in the extensive, thinly spread distribution envisaged in the
GOG plan. Although this would increase incremental crop production, and hence the ERR, the GOG
continues to place very high value on the social/equity benefits of the extensive plan and remains
committed to that design. Water availability and farmer responses, however, may dictate otherwise.
When all ongoing studies and the Environmental Impact Assessment are completed, an updated
economic analysis of practical options in the command area would be beneficial to guide further
command area development and avoid unnecessary investment expenditure.
I1.       Taking account of initial conditions, the institution-building aspects of the project have
been substantial. To be sure, a capacity to implement the designed operation, maintenance and water
management plans (para. 3) has yet to be developed. But as for SSDPP, the improvement in
engineering design and construction quality control standards in local institutions has been a major
accomplishment. In R&R, GOG has been ahead of the other participating states in adopting and
implementing enhanced R&R policies. Despite a piecemeal approach to environmental studies before
and during most of the project period, capability in integrated environmental impact assessment and
planning is now emerging. GOG is committed to mitigating any unfavorable health effects, although
staffing and funding need to be improved.
12.       In sum, achievements have been mixed, and many uncertainties regarding final outcome
remain. Fiscal constraints could be binding. Engineering and institutional accomplishments are
substantial, but the project is still in its initial construction stage and no productive components have
been put into operation, while the ultimate command area program is likely to be modified.
Nevertheless, the project promises to have a major impact on most of the 30 million people in the
command area through irrigation and DMI water or DMI alone. A marginally satisfactory rating
appears warranted for the expected outcome of the project based on the PCR analysis and the
assumption that, despite the delays, SSDPP will be implemented, funding will be secured and the
social and environmental aspects will finally be mastered.



5
13.        Project sustainability is rated as uncertain. O&M has not had a good history in India,
and the O&M wing of the development corporation will have to be strengthened in staffing, training,
equipping and funding if O&M plans are to be effectively implemented. Implementation of the
findings of the pending Environmental Impact Assessment will be crucial to sustainable irrigation
development, both in its impact on decisions concerning the extent of irrigation coverage and in the
management of mitigatory measures.
14.        Bank appraisal and supervision performance has been unsatisfactory. Quality at
entry was weak with respect to the social and environmental dimensions and hydrological parameters
may not have been assessed with sufficient rigor.
15.        The PCR is comprehensive and provides a detailed review of the project from the design
phase, through implementation to the situation existing in 1994. The PCR correctly reports on the
scrutiny exercised by the Board at project presentation, frankly points out the deficiencies of the Bank
in not adhering to its own operational guidelines and those of the Borrower in not meeting legal
covenants, and records the mixed results of a Bank-specified remedial action plan undertaken in
1992/1993.
16.         In Part 11 of the PCR the Borrower insists that, although Bank guidelines on
environmental planning may not have been fully met, GOI guidelines were applied, and a
comprehensive environmental management plan is nearing completion and will provide for any
necessary mitigatory measures. The inadequacy of the compensation for CAFs is contested, and the
land consolidation around the canal-affected areas which is suggested in Part I is not considered
feasible. The high social benefits of providing water for irrigation and DMI in the drought-prone
zones of Gujarat are reiterated, and the future problems in supplying DMI water caused by a decline in
the water table that would occur in the absence of the scheme are emphasized.
17.        An extraordinary amount of retrospective evaluation and lesson learning has already
taken place in connection with the environmental and resettlement aspects of the project. As indicated
in the Memorandum on SSDP, a performance audit is planned to assess the realism and the sensitivity
to risks of the reestimation in the PCR of the total scheme costs and benefits. Once the energy and
water distribution systems are in operation, and irrigation has commenced, OED also plans to
undertake an impact evaluation of selected aspects of the projects. This is likely to be directed at the
project's socioeconomic impact (including health aspects) on non-CAF families receiving irrigation, on
families receiving only domestic water supplies, and on CAFs. It will be linked with an impact
evaluation on the SSDPP which is expected to focus on the oustees from the dam construction and
submergence areas.



6
Note on the Calculation of Economic Rate of Returns for Investments Under the Filrst
Phase of the Narmada Development Plan
1. PCR base case seenano. A. Yielding 12 percent ERR
Actual costs for completed investments are used, and projected costs and benefits are revised.
Seventeen percent of the costs of the upstream Narmada Sagar Dam are included, as at appraisal. A
1989 revision of the construction schedule was further adjusted to allow for the consequences of
delays which were apparent in 1993 at the time of the recalculation of the ERR. The projection
assumes some irrigation and DM1 will commence in 1995 in a small area, with full development of
the 1.79 million hectares of irrigation in the command area program by 2006. Significant power
benefits would commence in 1997. In view of existing and likely delays in the construction of the
Narmada Sagar dam, a 25 percent reduction in power supply for the first five years is introduced to
compensate for reduced flows available to the riverbed power house (RBPH).
Comment:    At least one more year (after 1995) will be needed before irrigation commences, so
that part of the sensitivity calculation for irrigation delay (see below) must be
consumed in the actual base case. The 25 percent reduction in power for five years is
likely to be on the low side considering the progress in construction of the Sardar
Sarovar and anticipated future constraints. On the positive side, however, energy and
DMI values could be conservative (see below), and the Bank commodity price
projections for the 1995-2000 period are higher than that assumed in the PCR
analysis.
2. Scenario B
This examines the impact on Scenario A of delaying the RBPH for up to four years. Assuming that
investment costs in the RBPH and transmission systems are delayed accordingly, this reduces the ERR
by less than one percentage point.
Comment:    Delays may occur in the RBPH as financing of the necessary turbines is still in
question.
3. Scenaro C
This assumes that the Narmada Sagar Dam is substantially delayed (or not completed) so that it does
not contribute to the scheme. In this event, some suboptimal alternative investments in upstream
storage would probably occur, requiring a new hydrological modelling exercise to determine water
availabilities. In the absence of this, a proxy was used: the 25 percent reduction in power generation
which is assumed for the first five years in the base case scenario is extended through the project life;
similarly, the command area irrigation/DMI benefits are reduced by 30 percent, with the main canal
being fully costed but with branch canals and other development investments being reduced by 15
percent and 25 percent respectively. The 17 percent of the Narmada Sagar costs previously allocated
to the project is removed. This reduces the ERR by a little over 1 percent.



7
Comunent:    Although construction of the Narmada Sagar Dam has commenced, there are many
uncertainties (in funding and resettlement requirements) concerning its progress,
despite the government's stated commitment to its completion. Construction costs are
likely to be progressively incurred but any benefits may be seriously delayed. The
rationale for the proxy assumption is not explained in the PCR: the same proxy at the
time of appraisal was apparently based on simulation studies. While planning for
resettlement related to Narmada Sagar has been elaborate, implementation problems
may well arise given the sheer scale of the effort needed.
4. Scenario D
This examines delays in the command area development compared to scenario A, with simultaneous
reduction in benefits and costs, but with the main canal being completed as planned. A two year
delay reduces the ERR by 0.7 percentage points, a four-year delay by 1.4 percentage points, and a
six-year delay by 2 percentage points.
Comment:    Significant delays in the command area development appear likely, and at least a one-
year delay in the commencement of irrigation development is certain. The total plan,
however, envisages development of some areas with a poor benefit/cost ratio (for
social/equity reasons) and a relatively traditional cropping pattern. In practice,
restricted water availability (see below) and farmer practices may force more
profitable investmnent and water use than envisaged in the model.
5. Scenario E
This assumes that the command area would be reduced by up to 40 percent. On the assumption that
this makes the equivalent amount of water available for power, this increases the rate of return
slightly, again allowing for reduced command area development costs excepting the main canal.
Comment:    A reduced availability of water for irrigationlDMI need not make the equivalent water
available for energy. First, there is still some doubt about the total water availability
in the system, and second the actual water consumed by irrigators is likely to be more
than anticipated in the plan.
Concerning total water availability, the most recent hydrological model (in 1993 by the
Central Water Commission-CWC) estimates a 75 percent dependable flow of 27 MAF.
This is based on "observed' flows in the basin from 1948 to 1990 (43 years) and
"generated" flows from 1891 to 1947 (56 years). Although CWC insists on the validity of
these calculations, there is some question concerning the reliability of 'hindcasting' to
generate flow data from available rainfall records in the period to 1947. Use of only the
period with 'observed' flows lowers the 75 percent dependable volume by about 18
percent.
Within Madhya Pradesh, there is politial pressure not to fill the reservoir to its 'full
reservoir level'-FRL of 138.7m by some groups who will lose good cropping land when
this level is reached; this, despite the NWDT agreement to the 138.7m FRL. This issue
was heavily debated and eventually resolved during the NWDT proceedings. Recently,



8
however, renewed pressure for review of the FRL has been very strong in Madhya
Pradesh, in part encouraged by a Supreme Court Bench of Justices, which accused the
GOI of not responding adequately to a review at the project by the expert Patil Committee.
For the volume of water actually diverted at Sardar Sarovar for irrigation and DMI, the
planned water use per hectare may not eventuate, and more water is likely to be used on
less hectares than intended in the plan. The PCR calculation assumes reasonable crop
yields (e.g. 4 tons paddy HYV and 3.5 tons wheat HYV on irrigated higher potential
soils), an average cropping intensity of 1.37, an irrigation intensity of 1.06, an irrigation
efficiency of 48 percent at headworks, and a five-year adoption curve for enhanced inputs
and outputs on each block to receive irrigation; all of these coefficients are acceptable
considering experience in India. However, the PCR (and the SAR) assumes that the crop
water requirement will be reduced by 10 percent 'because of water scarcity;" in practice,
this is unlikely, as farmers in the earlier serviced areas are likely to assume higher
irrigation intensity and use much more water than envisaged in the plan. This implies that
less of the command area will be irrigated, but it also suggests that investment in the least
productive areas may be avoided. The latter is made even more likely in the Rann of
Kutch where a recent study by the Wildlife Institute of India has indicated that the
proposed irrigation canals would endanger the habitat of the wild ass (an endangered
mammal), particularly in waterlogged and saline areas. A more rational irrigation plan
and the adoption of a higher-value cropping pattern would be conducive to increasing the
rate of return.
Consequently, while reduced total water availability would have a negative effect on the
scheme benefits through reduced energy generation (scenario C), the likely pattern of
development and water use in the command area under circumstances of reduced supply
may not reduce the returns to irrigation investment.
6. Unit Value of Benefits
DMI water values can decrease by 19 percent or power energy values by 6.6 percent without taking
scenario A to below 10 percent ERR.
Comment:    The economic price of power (at about 4.6 US cents/kWh) is conservative and is
based on a 'willingness to pay" concept using a methodology which adds the
economic value of the average tariff for each consumer category to half the additional
cost of the alternative of private supply to account for a consumer surplus. This
methodology appears somewhat arbitrary, but is said to be conservative and has been
used in the appraisal of other recent projects in India. Account is not taken of the
higher peaking power value which would increase the ERR if it were included.
The DMI value at about 15 US cents/mi is 60 percent higher than that assumed at
appraisal. With one exception, the SAR methodology was adopted, in which demand from
different categories of consumers was calculated and the DMI water was valued as the
savings in cost realized by supplying estimated demand from the project rather than other
sources; the latter were individual water facility investments, except for some more
difficult areas in the later stages of development where the cost of trucked water was used.



9
The PCR assumed one third of the alternative source water would have to come from
desalinization (which causes the increased DMI value) on the grounds that the value
previously ascribed was extremely conservative considering the impact of recent droughts
in the command area. Although appearing reasonable, this valuation warrants further
investigation, as the contribution of DMI to the benefit stream in the first 15 years after
DMI commences increases from 4 percent at appraisal to 11 percent in the PCR ERR
analysis.
7. Component Analysis
The PCR states that the ERR (using scenario A assumptions) for investment in power alone is 14.2
percent, in irrigation alone is 10.8 percent and in irrigation and DMI is 12.4 percent.
Comment:    The methodology used to separate out benefits and costs to attain these estimates is
not presented, but it is assumed that the PCR uses the same dissections as those made
at the time of appraisal.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECr
(Credit 1553-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................................   iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....................... ..................... 1
1. Project Identity .1
2. Background                                     .1
3. Project Objectives and Description                        .2
4. Project Area                                   .4
5. Project Design and Organization                          .5
6. Project Implementation .14
7. Environment .18
8.   Canal Affected Families                                               ................   27
9.   Project Achievements                                                               29
10. Project Sustainability .34
11. Bank Performance .35
12. Borrower Performance .37
13. Project Relationships .38
14. Consulting Services .38
15. Project Documentation and Data .38
16. Lessons Learned .39
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .............. .................   42
The above parts of the PCR have been distributed to the Board and to the President. Thefollowving parts
are available to authorized persons on request. This measure hzas been adopted because of the length of
the report. Thefour annexes pertain to Part I.
ANNEX 1: Hydrology and Water Management ................................................................    67
ANNEX 2: Environmental Impacts and Management .......................................................   77
ANNEX 3: Resettlement & Rehabilitation of Canal Affected Persons .............. ...............   99
ANNEX 4: Revised Cost-Benefits Analysis ................................................................  Ill
PART m. STATISTICAL TABLES ................................................................  183
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits .184
2. Project Time Table .190
3.  Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements .191
4. Project Implementation .192
5. Project Costs .194
6. Project Financing .195
7. Status of Covenants .197
8. Staff Inputs .201
9. Bank Missions .202
MAPS (IBRD 17939,17940)






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECr
(Credit 1553-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Narmada (Gujarat) Water Delivery
and Drainage Project for which Credit 1553-IN for SDR 149.5 million (US$150 million
equivalent) was approved on March 7,1985. An amount of SDR 4.8 million was canceled from
the Credit on December 5, 1991. The Credit closed on July 1, 1992, 39 months behind schedule,
after an initial 3-month extension followed by three extensions of one year each. The Credit
was fully disbursed on September 17,1992.
The PCR was prepared by the New Delhi Agriculture Unit of the Agriculture
Operations Division of the India Department, South Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and IE). The Borrower has submitted Part II, and also provided extensive
comments on the draft PCR which were incorporated in Parts I and III of the present document
Whenever there was a major disagreement between the PCR and the Borrower's comments,
these were flagged in form of footnotes in Part I.
Preparation of this PCR was initiated during the Bank's supervision mnission in January
1992. However, its completion was delayed on several occasions pending the submission in
June 1992 of an Independent Review Report comnmissioned by the Bank, the findings of a Bank
review mission in July 1992, discussion of these two reviews by the Board on October 23, 1992,
and GOI's compliance with benchmarks that were to be fulfilled on March 31, 1993 but that
were actually submitted on August 5, 1993. The present PCR is based, inter alia on the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), legal documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, discussions with the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam (SSNNL)
engineers, the Independent Review Report, Government of India's (GOI) compliance with the
benchmarks internal Bank memoranda and reports, and various non-Bank documents.






..
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Credit 1553-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Objectives
1.    The Gujarat Water Delivery and Drainage Project and the Gujarat Dam and Power Project
form part of the Narmada River Development Plan, whose overall objective is to harness the
Narmada River through a series of dams, for irrigation, water supply and energy. The
arrangements for sharing and utilizing water by the four benefitting states (Madhya Pradesh,
Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan) were defined by the Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal
(NWDT) in December 1979. Under this award, Gujarat was allocated 11,100 Mm3 (9 million acre
feet [MAF]) representing about one third of the annual water flow, and was authorized to
implement a project comprising: (i) the Sardar Sarovar Dam, (ii) a 1,200 megawatt (MW) riverbed
powerhouse (RBPH), (iii) a 250 MW canal head powerhouse (CHPH), (iv) a canal system to
irrigate 1.87 M ha in Gujarat and 70,000 ha in Rajasthan, and (v) a water supply system for about
30 millon people in the command area with emphasis in the drought-prone areas of Saurashtra and
Kutch. On that basis, Gujarat prepared the Sardar Sarovar Project in 1980, which was to be
implemented in various phases over a period of about 20 years. Phase I comprised: (a) the Sardar
Sarovar Dam, (b) the RBPH, (c) the CHPH, (d) the first 144 kcm of the main canal up to the Mahi
River, and (e) a network of branch and distribution canals and drainage system to irrigate about
450,000 ha.
2.    The Water Delivery and Drainage Project (Credit 1553-IN) encompassed a 3-year time slice
of the Phase I Sardar Sarovar Project, including partial construction of: (i) the main canal up to
Mahi; (ii) seven major hydraulic structures (aqueducts and syphons) on the main canal, (iii) thirteen
branch canals; and (iv) twelve irrigation and drainage blocks representing about 96,900 ha. In
addition, the project was to: (v) install a state-of-the-art remote control and communication system;
(vi) provide technical assistance and training for the implementing agency; and (vii) promote
conjunctive use of surface and underground water within the irrigation and drainage blocks.
3.    The Dam and Power Project (Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2947-IN) for the Sardar Sarovar Dam
was processed in parallel, and is the subject of a separate Loan/Credit Completion Report. The
two projects were presented to the Board concurrendy on March 7, 1985. The Staff presentation
highlighted the R&R program for the projects. The Directors queried the institutional arrangements
for that program and the relatively undefined state of the environmental studies. Their other
concerns related to the project size, future Narmada Basin development, and being kept informed
(during implementation) about the projects' social and environmental effects. Taken together,
these Board concerns revealed the early exposure of all parties in the Bank to the R&R and
environmental issues, and the attention given to them by the EDs. Management agreed and
complied to a specific Board request to keep it informed of the projects' progress on social and
environmental issues through many written responses to questions and a number of briefings of
EDs.



Project Design and Organization
4.    Project preparation took four years from identification in 1979 to pre-appraisal in 1983.
The project was prepared by the Narmada Planning Group (NPG) with assistance from the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the Bank. Project concept and design closely follows
the NWDT award. NPG conducted supporting studies and analyzed the project's financial and
economic benefits. The Narmada Development Department (NDD), in charge of project
implementation, prepared detailed designs and cost estimates for the major project structures.
5.    Appraisal took a lengthy 17 months (March 1983 to August 1984) and several Bank
missions, due to the scope and complexity of the twin Canal and Dam Projects, and the need for
agreement on treatment of persons affected by the Dam Project. Negotiations took place in
November 1984 and Board approval, in March 1985. The SAR noted the need to prepare an
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) during implementation, but the Legal
Agreementsspecified only the need to minimize the risk of malaria and provide training in
environmental sciences.
6.   In May 1988 responsibility for project implementation was transferred from the Narmada
Development Department, a government agency, to the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd.
(SSNNL), a parastatal corporation organized along functional lines.
Hydrology
7.    The mean water availability created by the project was estimated at 17,700 Mm3 (14.3
MAF) per year, while the average irrigation requirements of the 1.87 M ha command area and the
D,M&I requirements were estimated at about 17,100 Mm3 (13.9 MAF). Little or no shortage of
water is anticipated until 2024 when the NWDT water allocation may be revised. However, there is
some risk that the project may need more than the present 9.0 MAF allocation before that date.1
Project Implementation
8.    The Credit became effective in January 1986, nine months after Board approval, but
construction was delayed until July 1987 when the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF)
gave environmental clearance for the project. Because the project timetable was soon deemed too
ambitious, in December 1989 a more realistic schedule was established for completing the works
by July 1992.
9.    The project's slow start was caused by transition to new management under the SSNNL
and unavoidable delays related to the introduction of new construction technologies. In a
Memorandum of Understanding (March 1989) the Borrower agreed to remedial measures
identified by a GOT-appointed Team of Experts, and thereafter project performance improved.
10.   The Credit closed on July 1, 1992 after four extensions totalling 39 months.
Civil Engineering
11.   The civil works component began slowly but gained momentum as govemment officials
and contractors became more familiar with the advanced technologies introduced by this project.
Initial implementation delays were not viewed as criticaL given the need to set high administrative
I     'nw Borower is Of the opinion that the project water requirements will not exceed the allocated 9.0
MAF.



iv
and engineering standards for the project's duration. Ultimately, due in part to the establishment of
a computerized management information system, the project conformed to intemational standards.
Environment
12.   The Board approved the project in 1985 in the absence of formal forest clearance from
India's MOEF, which had requested additional environmental studies. In June 1987, the MOEF
issued a conditional environmental clearance, pending still further studies.
13.   By March 1991 serious difficulties in the environmental and R&R components of both
projects led the Bank to commission an Independent Review. The Review was critical of Bank
and Borrower handling of environmental, health and R&R matters, charging that the completed
studies did not constitute a full EIA, that the Borrower's approach to environmental protection was
incremental rather than preventive, and that serious waterlogging, soil and health problems would
result from the project.
14.   Accepting some, though not all, conclusions of the Independent Review, the Bank secured
the Borrower's assurance that a comprehensive environmental action plan would be prepared, that
GOI would promptly correct weaknesses in its environmental program, and that the Government
of Gujarat (GOG) would implement Bank recommendations on health issues. In October 1992 the
Board agreed to continue support to both projects, subject to Borrower's compliance by March 31,
1993 with benchmarks related to both environmental issues and resettlement of canal affected
persons (though the Water Delivery and Drainage project had been closed since July 1, 1992).
15.   On March 29, 1993, shortly before the benchmarks were to be met, the Borrower
requested the Bank to cancel the Loan for the Dam and Power project. In its statement to the
Board, however, the Borrower reaffirmed its commitment to sound environmental and R&R
practices. In August 1993, the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) requested and the Bank agreed
to extend the date of completion of the command area EIA to December 31, 1994 as several
important studies remained to be carried out.
Canal-Affected Families
16.   The SAR and Legal Documents described no special R&R needs for canal-affected families
(CAFs). As in previous irrigation projects, these were to receive cash compensations under the
Land Acquisition Act of 1894. During implementation, however, it became clear that this
compensation level would not cover the replacement cost of land nor the additional costs of
developing replacement land.
17.  In addition to analyzing general environmental and R&R aspects of the Sardar Sarovar
Project (SSP), the Independent Review criticized the Bank for failing to address the displacement
of CAFs during appraisal and to introduce provisions for CAFs in the legal documents. It also
was critical of the incremental approach followed by the Bank for not yielding the expected results
in a timely manner. GOG was criticized for not having prepared a reliable database for failing to
adequately compensate and rehabilitate the CAFs, and for failing to prepare a policy regarding their
displacement. The Bank's Management response acknowledged that adequate resettlement plans
had not been prepared by the Borrower or appraised by the Bank under the project. Management
also agreed that the strategy for incremental progress on balance had yielded results too slowly.
18.   The Bank mission of July 1992 reviewed the status of R&R implementation and proposed
a number of actions to be taken by the Borrower in light of the Independent Review report and the
prevailing situation. The mission's findings and the Bank's Management response were discussed
by the Bank's Board during their meeting of October 23, 1992. The Board agreed with the
Management's assessment and established 19 benchmarks relating to R&R, including one that



v
addressed the CAF issue specifically. The Board requested that by March 31, 1993, GOG should:
(i) conduct a socioeconomic survey of CAFs and formulate a final policy package, (ii) identify the
CAFs who had been made landless, marginal farmers, and those who had lost more than 25% of
their land, and (iii) announce an interim policy for small and marginal farmers whose land had
already been acquired. Though these benchmarks were established after the closure of the Water
Delivery and Drainage project, the extent of compliance with them would have an effect on the
Dam and Power project which was still continuing at that time.
19.  In September 1992, shortly after the return of the Bank review mission, GOG produced a
document in which the number of CAFs was reassessed at 169,500, of whom only 24,000 would
be losing more than 25% of their land (with most of these actually benefitting from the irrigation).
At the same time, GOG issued an interim R&R policy for CAFs stipulating that: (i) compensation
for land lost would be based on market value determined by Land Purchase Committees, and (ii)
CAFs who had lost more than 50% of their land and were left with less than 1.0 ha in the
command area would be allocated 0.5 ha in addition to compensation. On August 5, 1993, the
Borrower indicated that it was implementing a socioeconomic survey of CAFs and that a final
policy would be based on the findings of the survey. The Borrower has recently informed the
Bank that the survey of CAFs had been completed and that the results together with a final policy
would be issued shortly.
Project Achievements
20.   The project achieved nearly all objectives regarding construction of the main canal and
structures, setting standards that are now a model for other projects in India. Other SAR targets
were met to varying degrees: 88% on the construction of main canal head regulator and the gated
cross regulators; 35% on seven major hydraulic structures; and 60% on branch canals. The twelve
irrigation and drainage blocks were not constructed because design worzk was delayed and SSNNL
then rejected all bids on account of high cost. Terms of Reference (TORs) were finalized and bids
invited for the design, installation and commissioning of a remote control and monitoring system
for canal operation down to the 8.5 m3/s level. A three-volume Plan of Operation and Maintenance
(POM) for the canal system and headworks was prepared.
21.   Notwithstanding some shortfalls in SAR targets, the project set excellent engineering,
construction, and management standards by introducing many innovative features. Highlights
include the mechanization of canal lining and construction of major structures; guidelines for the
design of distribution systems using the principles of rotational water supply (RWS); a
comprehensive operation and maintenance (O&M) manual; development and implementation of a
comprehensive computerized management information system (MIS); use of a Board of
Consultants to review the plans, drawings and construction techniques of major structures; and a
master plan for a state-of-the art remote control and monitoring system, using a fiber optics
communication technology, to operate the canal system.
22.   At appraisal the total project cost up to Orsang Aqueduct, including physical and price
contingencies, was estimated at Rs. 6,251 million (US$ 520.9 M). The three-year time slice was
to be Rs 3,059 M (USS 254.86 M), or about 50% of total cost. At project closure, the revised
estimate for total costs had risen to about Rs. 13,720 million, and the Borrower had spent Rs.
6,613.35 M (USS 289.60 M) or 48% of the total revised cost for completing about 60% of all
physical targets for the three-year time slice. Thus, price escalation was about 100% over the
estimated total cost at appraisal, but this escalation was offset by the larger than expected
devaluation of the Rupee against the US Dollar.
23. The SDR 149.5 M Credit disbursed slowly during the first four years. During the last two
years, however, the sum of SDR 101.5 M, representing 70% of the revised Credit amount, was
disbursed. Due to the Rupee's devaluation against the US Dollar, SDR 4.8 M were canceled from



vi
the Credit in 1992. At project closure, the revised Credit amount of SDR 144.7 M (USS 196.6 M
equivalent) was fully disbursed. If the same level of funding could be maintained after Credit
closure, the main canal as well as distribution works up to Orsang (km 49 of main canal) could be
completed and 30,000 ha could be ready for irrigation by July 1, 1995, the scheduled date for the
release of water from Sardar Sarovar Dam into the main canal.
Revised Economic Analysis
24.   The revised analysis covers the project's irrigation, power and the domestic, municipal and
industrial (D,M&I) components. It reflects changes in quantities, prices and phasing since 1984,
and pays particular attention to environmental costs and benefits (such as estuary changes, fisheries
costs and benefits, fuelwood, and wildlife) which might have been underestimated or omitted in
the original analysis. The revised analysis has an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 12% --
marginally lower than the 13% in the original SAR, but within the acceptable range for a project of
this type. The scale of benefits is large relative to any feasible alternatives, with substantial
multiplier effects as well. Had the SSP been conceived as a power project alone, the ERR would
have been 14%. The command area alone exhibits a somewhat marginal ERR. If expenditure to
date is treated as a sunk cost, the ERR is 17%.2
25.   The economic analysis indicates that power generation produces greater economic benefits
than irrigation and that extensive irrigation -- while raising equity and social benefits - yields a
marginal ERR. Conversely, the benefits from domestic and industrial water are likely to be more
substantial than anticipated initially.
Sustainability
26.   As construction standards were good to excellent during implementation, the irrigation
infrastructure created so far should provide long and reliable service. If infrastructure quality is
maintained, project sustainability appears guaranteed for 40 to 50 years. However, even if funding
constraints force the adoption of lower construction standards, ultimate sustainability depends
heavily on ensuring adequate O&M for the irrigation and drainage systems. Though India's track
record on O&M is not good, the exceptional standard of excellence developed by SSNNL may be
able to set a new trend in O&M, for this project.
27.   The detailed EIA that is now underway will further improve the project's prospects for
environmental sustainability. Waterlogging and salinity will be mitigated through drainage and
conjunctive use, and is not expected to develop on a large scale. The Borrower's Environmental
Management Plan should prevent the degradation observed in some other projects.
28.   To minimize the risk of exceeding NWDT water allocations in later years, the Borrower
should monitor water utilization closely and consider limiting the size of the command area initially
to the more profitable branches and shift to more efficient irrigation methods such as sprinkler and
drip irrigation thereafter. Final size of the command area could then be based on actual usages and
efficiencies.3 This approach would substantially improve the project's economic viability and
long-term sustainability.
2     lIh Borrower notes that SSP wu designed as a muiti-pupose project, therefore, a separate onOmic
analysis of the power nd irrigSation components is not wrantod.
3     In line with footnote (1), the Borrower empauizes that there is no question of reducing the comman
area.



vii
Bank Performance
29.   Overall, the Bank's performance was excellent in the engineering fields, where high
standards of construction were developed and implemented. In the R&R, environmental and
health fields, however, Bank performance was mixed or poor particularly in the early stages. This
initial wealness continued during project implementation, and the Bank iniially failed to take the
measures required to assist the Borrower in preparing an environmental management plan for the
command area. When it finally did so in 1992, it was too late to act within the framework of this
projecL
30.   The Banlk demonstrated its willingness to respond to outside criticism when it appointed an
Independent Review of the project. This unprecedented decision has had positive repercussions in
the way business is conducted within the Bank particularly with regard to monitoring and
evaluation of R&R and environmental activities and also on the Bank's policy on disclosure of
information. Although the findings and recommendations of the Independent Review were not
fully accepted by either the Bank or the Borrower, both recognized a number of shortcomings in
their actions and did their best to address problems that had been identified.
31.   Throughout the project cycle from preparation to completion, the Bank made a large
commitment of staff. Project appraisal required 191 staff weeks and supervision 269 staff weeks,
i.e., an average of 38.4 staff weeks per year for portfolio management This latter figure may be
underestimated in view of the large staff input that was required following the publication of the
Independent Review report and the various actions to monitor the implementation of the bench-
marks after project closure. With this high level of staff input, the Bank has had a positive impact
on project formulation, planning and implementation in many fields such as hydrology and
hydraulics, structural designs, irrigation and drainage system design, institutional planning, cost
estimates, R&R, environment and health. However, it should be noted that throughout the project
cycle, Bank missions showed some bias, largely shared by the Borrower as well, toward the
engineering aspects of the project To be sure, many supervision missions included an environ-
mentalist and eventually both R&R and malaria specialists. However, their recommendations
never achieved as much impact as those of the engineers.4
32.   In retrospect, the Bank may have been over-ambitious in attempting to finance a project of
such scope and complexity. In its eagerness to proceed quickly with this large project, the Bank
considered the project in its entirety, as it resulted from the NDWIr, without making a sufficiently
critical review of shorter term viable sub-projects. The Bank was unrealistic in thinking that the
partial completion of Phase I could be accomplished in only three years. The overall job was large
and complex, not only by Indian standards, but by any standards.5
Borrower' Performance
33.   Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory in the engineering and irrigation
works, but much less satisfactory in implementation of the R&R of CAFs, environmental and
4     The Borrower observes that the last three sentences of this para give a distorted image of enviromental
and R&R implementation when compared to progress in the engineering aspects of the project.
5     The Borovwer indicat the Bank bad no ason to consider shortwer term viable projects since the NWDT
bd reviewed all project development optioos before giving its rnal decsions.
6     In actual facts, 001 is the Borrower, Gujat is the impkmenting State nd SSNNL ir the implementing
Agency. Rather than to differentiate the roles played by eaco entity, the generic term 'Borrower' wu
usd io this Sectio.



yi.
health aspects of the project. With regard to these latter project components, however, the
Borrower has argued that it can not be accused of doing an improper job since these aspects were
not adequately described in the original project and legal documents. Throughout the project cycle,
the Borrower was over-optimistic about its capacity to implement the project within the proposed
time frame. Even after the two-year delay due to Indian environmental clearance and the other
implementation impediments, the Borrower was stiWl optimistic about completing the whole project
by the year 2000. At present, the Borrower may have revised its optimism in light of current
financial constraints, and may realize that the completion of this large project will take many more
years. During project implementation, the Borrower took a number of positive decisions which
helped project implementation. Among the most noteworthy was the creation of the Sardar
Sarovar Narmada Nigam, a public corporation with considerable flexibility in dealing with
administrative, personnel and financial matters.
34.   Throughout project implementation, the Borrower was responsive to the Bank's
suggestions regarding the engineering aspects of the project and at a later date to those relating to
the environmental, R&R and health aspects of the project. When the Independent Review mission
was in the field, the Borrower did its utmost to satisfy its demands in all respects and with genuine
openness. The Borrower was disappointed by the Independent Review report and, although
publicly muted in its response, felt that this report was biased. Nevertheless, the Borrower
responded positively to the Independent Review's findings and recommendations by recognizing
many shortcomings and doing its best to meet the benchmarks set by the Board of Directors.
However, at the end of March 1993 the Borrower requested the cancellation of the remaining Dam
and Power Loan.
Lessons Learned
A General Lessons
35.   The fit lesson is the need to set realistic implementation schedules: not according to the
most desirable implementation pace but according to the most probable pace - one that assumes
day-to-day difficulties and innumerable physical, administrative and financial setbacks. The Bank
appraisal team was unrealistic in estimating the Borrower's ability to complete the project works
within three years. The Borrower was also unrealistic in agreeing to such a tight work schedule,
lnowing the likelihood of frequent administrative and financial difficulties. In addition, in a
drought-prone area like Gujarat, the occurrence of severe droughts usually upsets any pre-
established implementation plans. The appraisal team did not make sufficient allowance for
predictable delays in the finalization of designs, procurement, non-performing contractors, re-
bidding, land acquisition, and introduction of new technologies.
36.   The second lesson is one that applies to many irrigation and drainage projects: the need to
complete the final designs for all major structures and distribution networks as early as possible in
the project cycle so the irrigation system can be substantially constructed by the time the dam is
completed and water becomes available. In the case of this project, the designs of some major
structures, as well as those of the irrigation and drainage blocks, were not ready until several years
after project inception. Due to procurement and other delays, the basic field irrigation systems
were not started during project implementation and therefore only a marginal area will be ready for
irrigation. The failure to prioritize designs and construction of lower level irrigation systems will
have a negative impact on the economic returns of the project's irrigation component
37.   The tird.j though not a direct lesson from project implementation (since irrigation has not
yet started), relates to the need to be cautious in the design of extensive irrigation schemes, because
of their special managerial requirements and marginal ERR. Tbough the design of SSP reflects a
deliberate decision aimed at increasing equity and meeting widespread needs for domestic water,
higher retums would probably be achieved through the use of more intensive irrigation within a



ix
smaller command area. As there is still time to make this adjustment, a gradual approach to
developing the command area would be wise, given the uncertainties about ultimate efficiency
levels, the unknowns about upstream storage and utilization and the fact that the economics do not
require rapid establishment of the full command area. Fifteen years after the project was originally
conceived, a mid-term review of the initial assumptions should be conducted and adjustments made
to the present project design, consistent with current Bank practice.7 Such adjustments should
integrate the findings of the ongoing environmental impact assessment which is due in December
1994.
38.   The fourth lesson concerns the need for the Bank to rely on the Borrower's commitment
and capacity for effective implementation of the R&R and environmental components of major
projects. Assessment of these aspects should be given the highest attention during appraisal. No
project should go to the Board unless the Bank is satisfied beforehand that the Borrower has fully
developed sound strategies and policies for dealing with key issues like R&R and environment.
The implementation of the SSP projects has clearly demonstrated the Bank's limited ability to make
up for the wealnesses of the Borrower in these fields in spite of a supervision input about ten
times the Bank average.
B. Lessons on Environment
39.   The fLk lesson relates to the need for ensuring that all the Government clearances have
been obtained before negotiations, particularly in such sensitive areas as environmenL The lack of
environmental clearance by the MOEF led to a two-year delay in project implementation. This
situation has damaged the project's image considerably, although it has not affected the possibility
of ameliorative action in the future.
40.   The eond lesson relates to the need for projects with environmental ramifications to have
a proper Environmental Impact Assessment as part of the normal feasibility studies, and to ensure
that corresponding mitigative measures are adequately integrated in the project design. One of the
major criticisms that emerged from the Independent Review Report was that the project was
approved without a proper Environmental Impact Assessment for the command area. Undertaking
an EIA, as required under the present more rigorous Bank guidelines, and including a separate
environmental component in the project's design are the best ways of ensuring that the requisife
environmental mitigating measyres will be implemented in an adequate and timely manner.
41.   The ihid lesson relates to the need for the Bank to use highly qualified environmental
specialists to supervise the environmental component and, as needed, to provide guidance to the
Borrower in the resolution of special environmental issues.
42.   The fQUr lesson relates to the need for a separate health component in large irrigation and
drainage projects. Though this aspect was covered to some extent in the SAR and legal
documents, it is essential for the Bank and the Borrower to consider the inclusion of a separate
health component and employ qualified health specialists to supervise, monitor and evaluate its
implementation.
C. Lessons on Canal-Affected Families
43. The flmx lesson is that projects involving R&R require considerable preparatory effort,
including affected persons' involvement, a sound policy base, adequate budgeting and financing,
good R&R component design, precise and detailed legal document conditionality and consistently
7     As indicted previously, the Borrower reiteaes its position that it would not be posible to reduce the
command sa as al upects mentioned in the PCR have been considezd while fusing its size.



x
good supervision to increase the chances of success. Particular attention should be given to the
application of the prevailing Bank guidelines during preparation, appraisal and negotiatons of large
multi-purpose projects (and others). If the guidelines change during project implementation and
supervision, the Bank should approach the Borrower to see in what way the new guidelines can be
applied.
44.   The second lesson is that canal-affected persons need to be adequately compensated and
provided with the additional resources for purchasing land to replace what they have lost Special
attention should be given to the impacts of canals, drains or roads on the viability of farm holdings.
Finally, alternative solutions such as land consolidation and field boundary realignment should be
considered, at least in a pilot form, to minimize land acquisition and facilitate access of holdings to
irrigation, drainage and roads.
45.   The thir lesson is that there are some differences between canal-affected and reservoir-
affected persons. In the canal-affected case, persons are usually partially affected and villages
often not at aL. whereas in the reservoir-affected case, persons and villages are fully affected and
must be relocated often in a completely different environment and habitaL Though the basic
objectives and principles should remain the same in each case, the substance of such policies may
differ.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Credit 1553-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name            : Narmada (Gujarat) Water Delivery and Drainage Project
Credit NoiLoan.No.      : Credit 1553-IN
RVP Unit                : South Asia Region
Country                 : India
State                   : Gujarat
Sector                  : Agriculture
Subsector               : Irrigation
2.    Background
2.1   When this project was apprised in August 1984, India had a population of over 700 M,
growing at an annual rate of about 2.4%. Although more than two-thirds of the labor force was
employed in agriculture, which accounted for about 40% of gross domestic product (GDP),
agricultural growth averaged only a sluggish 2.3% a year. Accordingly, agricultural growth and
the expansion of irrigation, along with the development of energy and infrastructure facilities to
raise economic growth and alleviate poverty, became the comerstones of India's development
strategy, as reflected in the nation's Five Year Economic Development Plans. More specific
development objectives flowing from this strategy included investment in irrigation systems,
storage reservoirs, extension and on-farm developmenL Special emphasis was put on making the
water conveyance systems more efficient, to ensure reliable delivery to fields, and on strengthening
the ability of water management systems to respond to water demand in the command areas.
Finally, investment in the development of large river basins was considered essential for the
expansion of irrigation.
2.2   Today, almost ten years later, India's population has increased to about 870 M and the
annual rate of population growth has decreased to 2.0%. Agriculture's share in GDP has fallen to
about 30%, while agricultural growth has risen to 3.2 % per year. However, per capita food
production is still sluggish at 1.6 %, and India's top development priorities continue to be to
agriculture, irrigation, rural development and energy. As indicated in the India Irrigation Sector
Review (Report No. 9518-IN) of December 20, 1991, however, emphasis within the irrigation
sub-sector has shifted from the development of new and particularly large schemes, to the
completion and rehabilitation of existing schemes. There is also a new trend toward greater
involvement of beneficiaries in irrigation schemes through the privatization of groundwater and, to
a lesser extent, of the lower sections of irrigation distribution networks.
2.3   The state of Gujarat covers an area of 19.6 M ha and, at Appraisal, had a population of
about 36 M that was growing at an annual rate of 2.5%. Although Gujarat was relatively
urbanized and had a large manufacturing sector, its economy was also highly influenced by
agriculture. In a normal rainfall year, agriculture contributed some 33-35% of the state's income
and employed about 60% of its labor force. With many regions experiencing low and highly
variable rainfall and with only about 18-20% of the cultivated area under irrigation, Gujarat had
long been susceptible to drought and famines. For example, from 1900 to project Appraisal
(1983/84), the state suffered at least 25 severe food shortages and water scarcity due to drought.



2
In 1983, drought affected some 30 million people with serious economic, social and health
implications. People and livestock often depended on water trucked in by the state, and many
diseases endemic to the rural population were traceable to malnutrition and unsafe drinking water.
In addition, the economic costs of dealing with these droughts, constituted an increasing drain on
Gujarat's budget
2.4   The combined demand for industrial, irrigation, livestock, ruraL and municipal water in
Gujarat, one of India's fastest-growing industrial states, was simply outstripping groundwater
resources and existing reservoirs. At the same time, investments in irrigation began to decline as
older projects were coming to completion, and new areas for agricultural development - except for
the vast, unexploited areas of the Narmada Basin - were becoming scarce. However, even as the
population continued to grow, the share of labor force employed in agriculture was declining, thus
allowing some consolidation of holdings and the release of some land for resettlement activities.
2.5    At Appraisal, the Government of Gujarat (GOG) estimated that it would exhaust the
potential for all further surface water irrigation schemes, with the exception of the Narmada Basin,
within the next ten years or so. Thereafter, the development of the Narmada Basin would become
the only feasible means of simultaneously assuring sustainable agricultural growth, and meeting
the pressing domestic, municipal and industrial needs for water. Consequently, GOG accorded
high priority to irrigation development programs, including construction of storage reservoirs
through the implementation of major and medium projects, in line with the priorities fixed by GOI.
2.6  It was against this background that GOG embarked upon the planning of the Nannada
River Development (NRD), one of the most ambitious water resources development project ever
attempted. It accorded the highest priority to beginning with the Sardar Sarovar Projects (SSP)
which comprised the construction of the Sardar Sarovar dam, power complex and canal network.
In view of the immensity and complexity of SSP, the Government of India (GOI) sought Bank
Group assistance in financing the first stage of SSP. These projects were to be among the first in a
series of some 30 major projects planned to develop the Narmada Basin. Given the projects'
potential for benefitting the basin region and the entire nation, the Bank agreed to finance
simultaneously two key components of SSP:
a.    an IBRD LoanIDA Credit of USS 300 M towards the cost of constructing the dam
and power complex; and
b.    an IDA Credit of USS lS0 M towards the cost of constructing the canal network in
the 3 year time-slice.
3.    Project Objecdves and Description
3.1   The Narmada (Gujarat) Water Delivery and Drainage Project (Credit 1553-IN), Phase I is
interdependent with the Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power Project (Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-
IN). The overall long-term objectives of these projects, together with the subsequent phases of the
Water Delivery and Drainage project up to the Rajasthan border, are to create a modern
multipurpose agricultwal and power production system to benefit the growing rural population and
assist the economic growth of Gujarat as a whole. More precisely, the objectives of the Narmada
Sardar Sarovar Projects are to provide storage and regulation of Narmada River flows for:
L     establishing an efficient, reliable, and equitable supply of irrigation water, coupled
with conjunctive use of groundwater and effective drainage services, over about
1.79 M ha of command area in Gujarat, (ii) supplying municipal, industrial and
domestic water to a population of about 30 M people in Gujarat, and (iii) creating
the potential to irrigate about 70,000 ha and provide domestic, municipal and
industrial water supplies in Rajasthan; and



3
b.    establishing an efficient and reliable power generation capacity of 1,450 MW
through the Riverbed Powerhouse (1,200 MW) and the Canal Head Powerhouse
(250 MW), and (ii) distributing hydro-electric energy, including peaking capacity,
to the western region power grid serving the States of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh
and Maharashtra.
3.2   The Water Delivery and Drainage Project (Cr.1553-IN) was conceived as a system
encompassing one main canal and three major branch canals. Its objectives were to: (i) finance a
three-year time slice of the Phase I water delivery and drainage project through partial
implementation of irrigation infrastructure between the Main Canal head and the Mahi River, and
(ii) establish the institutional framework required for project implementation and operation. The
detailed project components as per the DCA, Schedule 2 are:
Part  [Conveyance, Delivery and Conveyance Systems),
(i)    Lining of the section of the Narmada Main Canal between km 9 and 21.4 [full
completion in time slice];
(ii)   Partial construction of the section of the Narmada Main Canal between km 21.4 and
143.7 including earthworks, lining and related structures [55% completion in time
slice];
(iii)  Partial construction of the Main Canal head regulator and of about ten gated cross-
regulators to be located between the Narmada Main Canal head and Km 143.7
t70% completion in time slice];
(iv)   Partial construction of seven major cross drainage structures to be located on the
Heran, Orsang, Deo, Karad, Meshri, Kun and Mahi Rivers [55% completion in
time slice];
(v)   Partial construction of the Miyagam Branch Canal between Ikm 0 and 72 [70%
completion in time slice];
(vi)  Partial construction of the Por, Khundela, Untiya, Amleshwar, Sinor, Luwara,
Dora, Mandwa, Jamnbusar, Sakarda, and Ranoli Branch Canals [40% completion in
time slice];
(vii)  Partial construction of the Vadodara Branch Canal between kan 0.0 and 102 [35%
completion in time slice];
(viii)  Partial construction of about twelve distribution and drainage system development
blocks (blocks 6A-1, 6A-2, 6A-3, 6A-4, 6b,6C, 7C, 9A-1, 9B-1, 9B-2, 9C-1 and
9C-2) located in the command area between the Sardar Sarovar Dam and the Mahi
River, including conveyance channels, surface drains and service roads within each
block [25% completion in time slice]2;
Ihe wording In between bracketa [..J is from the SAR pan. 5.02 and 5.03 andlor from the Ageed
Minutes of Negotiations pwa. 6.
2     Mhe twelve development blodus reprent a cultivable commad Aea (CCA) of 96,900 he out of a tota
of fity-two blocks of 448,190 ha CCA cAded between the Main Canal hed and the Mahi River. 25%
completion repesents about 24,100 ha to be implemented during the project period.



4
(ix)   Partial construction of the Distributaries to service each of the twelve distribution
and drainage development blocks under Part A (viii) of the Project [45% completion
in time slice].
part B.    [Training]
(i)   Implementation of a suitable training program for the project staff in: (a)
environmental sciences and related mitigating measures; (b) field survey, layout,
design and estimating activities for block development of minor irrigation and
drainage networks; and (c) operation and maintenance of the facilities under the
Project, including computer based centralized data information systems, and
communication and remote control operation and maintenance systems;
(ii)   Establishment of a training facility for operation and maintenance, including
construction of the required buildings and provision of training equipment.
part r. Provision of technical assistance for.
(i)   the overall design, construction and quality control of the works under Part A of the
Project, including computer based centralized data and information systems;
(ii)  the planning and design of a system for the operation and maintenance of the water
delivery and drainage project components of the Sardar Sarovar Project, including
plans and studies needed for annual, seasonal and daily operation and technical
evaluations to support design requirements; and
(iii)  the selection, design and installation of the communication and centralized
computer-based remote control systems for the operation and maintenance of the
water delivery and drainage project components of the Sardar Sarovar Project.
3.3   As per the SAR (para. 3.27 and Table 1) the preparation of a work plan including studies
and investigations of the project's effects on the environment and project affected persons was to
be carried out and fmanced directly by the Borrower with the Bank's technical assistance. In
particular, Table I specified that the following studies, among others, were to be carried by NPG:
(i)   Rehabilitation and resettlement plan for the Sardar Sarovar Reservoir and other
oustees in the command (emphasis added);
(ii)   Detailed environmental assessment and necessary actions for protective measures
for the command area; and
(iii)  Afforestation plan for the command area, including special use zones.
3.4  In addition to the construction of the twelve blocks mentioned in Part A (viii), partial
construction of seven additional distribution and drainage development blocks (CCA = 52,600 ha)
in the initial 49 Ikm reach of Narmada Main Canal up to Orsang Aqueduct were also included in the
project scope through the September 29, 1991 amendment of Development Credit Agreement
1553-IN.
4 .   Project Area
4.1   The irrigation scheme starts in the lower south-eastem part of the state where the Sardar
Sarovar Dam is located across the Narmada River, about 150 km upstream of the Gulf of



5
Khambat. The main canal takes off at a right angle from the Narmada River and runs northwards
over 460 km until it reaches the border with Rajasthan. The first major branch canal will irrigate
the fertile plains of Vadodara where the annual rainfall varies between 700 and 800 mm. The
branch canals of this region will also provide water to the coastal lands along the Gulf of Khambat,
known for their salinity. The second major branch canal will take water to the central part of the
Saurashtra Peninsula through a series of lifts. The Saurashtra Branch Canal will then continue
toward the Arabian Sea to provide domestic, municipal and industrial water to towns, industrial
centers and villages through a system of pipe lines. The Saurashtra Peninsula is semi-arid, with
annual rainfalls ranging from 400 to 600 mm, and has relatively fertile soils except in the low lands
along the Gulf of Khambat. The third major branch canal will lead the Narmada waters over a
narrow strip of land located between the Rann of Kutch (desert with saline soils) and the Gulf of
Kutch. This region is known for its arid climate, with rainfall around 200 mm per year, and its
relatively poor soils. The main canal will then continue in northern Gujarat toward the Rajasthan
border, across patches of fertile and saline soils. The climate is also arid, with an annual rainfall
around 200 mm. (See Map IBRD 17940.)
5.   Project Design and Organization
Origins of Proiect Design - The Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal
5.1   The project's design and organization were affected by various political and social as well
as technical considerations. In 1965, GOI appointed a committee to prepare a master plan for the
development of the Narmada Basin, which included sections of four Indian states: Gujarat,
Madhya Pradesh (MP), Maharashtra, and Rajasthan. When the riparian states failed to accept the
Commission's recommendations, GOI -- in accordance with the provisions of the "Inter-State
Water Dispute Act of 1956" -- appointed the Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal (NWDT) to
adjudicate. Following ten years of deliberations, the NWDT gave its final award in December
1979. According to the data then available, the annual 75% dependable quantum of water available
for the project was estimated at 28 million acre feet (MAF), of which approximately two-thirds
(18.25 MAF, or 22,500 MxM3) was allocated to MP, and most of the remainder (9.0 MAF, or
1 1,100 Mm3) to Gujarat. Rajasthan and Maharashtra were allocated minor amounts (0.5 MAF, or
600 Mm3 and 0.25 MAF, or 300 Mm3. respectively). The NWDT also issued orders regarding
the major characteristics of the projects to be developed, including:
a.    proportionate sharing of water in surplus and deficit years;
b.    elevation of the full reservoir level (FRL) of the Sardar Sarovar Dam;
c.    elevation of the main canal at the Rajasthan boarder,
d.    sharing of power benefits from Sardar Sarovar among Gujarat, MP and
Maharashtra;
e.   resettlement and rehabilitation of the people living in the reservoir,
f.    concurrent construction of the Narmada Sagar Dam in MP;
g.   regulated releases from the Narmada Sagar Dam in MP;
h.    sharing of costs for the Sardar Sarovar and Narmada Sagar dams, Sardar Sarovar
riverbed and canalhead hydropower plants, and Narmada main canal; and
i.    setting up of the NarTnada Control Authority (NCA) to coordinate the implemen-
tation of the NWDT award.



6
5.2   It apepars from the Project design that Gujarat's &f  objective was to ensure the project
would benefit the maximum number of people by spreading water over the largest command area
possible. This strategy, which gave higher priority to the project's equity and social aspects than
to economic considerations, was accepted by the Bank as consistent with the goal of reducing
poverty. It was also consistent with India's long tradition of building irrigation systems primarily
for famine relief, rather than for productive and commercial purposes.
5.3   Gujarat's second objective appears to have been its desire to be awarded the largest amount
of water possible since its share of the Narmada Basin is relatively small when compared to that of
Madhya Pradesh. Gujarat's strategy, therefore, appears to have been to present the largest multi-
purpose project possible including a very large command area of 1.79 million hectares net, an
ambitious water supply scheme for domestic, municipal and industrial uses for 30 million people,
and a power generation component of 1,450 Megawatts. In addition, to satisfy the water
requirements of such a large project, a second large reservoir, known as the Narrnada Sagar Dam,
was to be constructed simultaneously upstream in MP. The concept of a large multi-purpose
project prevailed during the NWDT proceedings, and was finally accepted after the distribution of
water, costs and benefits satisfied the party states.
EProi Preplaration and Apprabial
5.4   When the NWDT finally rendered its decision, the major characteristics of project design
had already been deternined directly or indirectly by the NWDT, or were part of the basic
assumptions. These included such matters as water allocation, height and storage capacity of the
Sardar Sarovar Dam, power generation, length and elevation of the main canal, expected size of the
command area, and number of beneficiaries. These questions had already been settled through the
considerable discussions and technical work (for example, on various dam sizes, dam locations,
and water usage) that had been carried out during the NWDT's ten-year deliberations.
5.5   Project preparation took four years from project identification in 1979 to preappraisal in
1983, well after the NWDT decision. The Narmada Planning Group (NPG) and the Bank's
appraisal team did not attempt to change the basic concept, scope and design of the project. In
retrospect, smaller viable sub-projects within the framework of the NWDT award might have been
considered at this stage. For instance, financing the Sardar Sarovar Dam for power generation only
or the funding of a smaller command area which initially did not rely on the construction of the
Narmada Sagar dam upstream. Because the appraisal team took for granted the concept of water
spreading which prevailed at that time for social reasons, it did not consider the more intensive
irrigation options which were known to yield higher rates of return. Critics have often raised the
issue of options. Alternative options such as constructing a large number of small reservoirs or to
give more emphasis to groundwater development - to minimize the impact on affected persons and
the environment - have not been comparable in terms of scale of benefits and generally have been
very weak technically and economically.3 In addition, there does not appear to be any suitable
altemative especially for the D, M&I water in northern part of GujaraL
5.6 The NPG comprised a multi-disciplinary team of national experts to which UNDP and the
Bank provided extensive technical and financial assistance. Emphasis was placed on studies for
Phase I (450,000 ha up to Mahi) which were carried out at feasibility level, while those of the
subsequent Phases (1.4 million ha up to the Rajasthan boarder) were carried out at reconnaissance
3     lbe Bonowe indicates th the Bank had no reao  to consider sborter Wmn viable projects since the
NWD bad reviewed al project development options before giving its final decision. In addition,
priect auLborities had stU;ed cropping patterns aN water requimments to malch the NWDT award aNd,
terefome, there wa no reaon to consider a smaller command are.



7
stage. The Narmada Development Department (NDD), in charge of project implementation, had
the task of preparing the detailed designs and cost estimates of the major structures, in association
with the Central Water Commission, such as the Sardar Sarovar Dam and its powerhouse, the
main canal and its appurtenant structures, the branch canals and the distribution systems. Another
important task for NPG, to which the Bank staff contributed actively, was the analysis of the
financial and economic benefits of the project. In addition to this enormous task, both the NPG
and the NDD devoted some time to the study of environmental and resettlement concems.
5.7   Appraisal was carried out in 17 months, from March 1983 to August 1984, by several
Bank missions. The protracted period of appraisal was due to the scope and complexity of the
twin Canal and Dam Projects, and also to the need to reach agreement on the treatment of people
affected by the Dam Project Negotiations took place in November 1984 and Board approval in
March 1985. The SAR and its two Supplementary Data Volumes give a detailed and exhaustive
description of the Sardar Sarovar Project as a whole, and of the 3-year time-slice of the Water
Delivery and Drainage project in particular. There are also large quantities of unpublished back-up
material. The project documents give a good description of the various components eligible for
financing, with particular emphasis on the irrigation and drainage aspects, as well as the
institutional and training requirements, for implementing this large and innovative project. The
SAR also addressed the risk of water-borne diseases due to the project. However, by the time
appraisal was completed, it became apparent that more detailed studies would have to be prepared
during project implementation by the NPG. The SAR, in its Table 1, gives a list of additional
priority studies which relate to hydrology, groundwater, soils, crop water requirements, drainage
requirements, agricultural production, management information systems, and also the modeling of
the Narmada River flows under various development options and the modeling of groundwater
abstraction. Among these studies, the most important was the preparation of a resettlement and
rehabilitation (R&R) plan for the persons affected within the command area. The list also indicated
the need to prepare: (i) a detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (EA) and necessary actions for
protective measures for the command area; and (ii) an afforestation plan for the command area.
The project concept and design were well understood by the Borrower.
5.8   The legal documents also gave a thorough description of the project and components
eligible for financing. The covenants covered the usual conditionalities, including availability of
funds, timely implementation even after Credit closure, adequate staffing, proper O&M, need for
water charges, training of staff, and maintenance of the NPG and other inter-state institutions.
Among the 23 covenants of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), one required that land for
canal construction and structures should be acquired in a timely manner, and another required
GOG to undertake all measures considered necessary to minimize the risk of malaria, filaria,
schistosomiasis and other water-related diseases. However, no covenants covered the preparation
of an R&R plan for canal oustees, or a command area EA. The Legal Agreements spoke only of a
suitable training program in environmental sciences and mitigating measures.
Board Presentation
5.9   On March 7, 1985 Bank staff presented the Water Delivery and Drainage Project in
conjunction with the Dam and Power Project to the Board, referring to them as one of the largest
multi-purpose schemes ever planned and designed as one unit, and making special note of the
R&R program for Sardar Sarovar Dam and Reservoir. They argued that the objectives and
principles embodied in this R&R program were a significant improvement on standard Indian
practice: (i) the program's intended provision of land and employment was superior to the practice
of cash compensation; (ii) its emphasis on resettling communities au communities would
accelerate oustees' rehabilitation; and (iii) its planned intensive follow-up M&E by independent
agencies would set the standard for similar schemes in the future. Staff pointed out how well the
two projects supported the Bank's lending strategy for India and how their innovative concepts in



8
design, construction, and management practices would serve to catalyze progress in these areas as
well.
5.10 Four Executive Directors spoke and raised issues, though each supported the proposals.
Their main issues related to project size, the prospects for Bank involvement in future Narmada
catchment projects, and social and environmental effects.
5.11  Regarding Wtsize, one Director asked why the Bank had divided an obviously unified
investment into two projects? Was it because of the customary limit of US$300 M on Bank
loans/credits? Management's response assured the Board that the preference for two projects had
nothing to do with such limits which were in any case, flexible. A single project would have
simplified Board documentation, but would have complicated implementation, which involved
different agencies. Staff added that a further consideration in the choice of two projects was the
distribution of benefits among the states. The set of beneficiary- states for power differed from
that for irrigation.
5.12 Regarding future Narmada Basin Development, a question was asked whether the Bank
was considering additional projects, given the large size of these first two. Staff responded by
referring to one large and two smaller dams then under appraisal in Madhya Pradesh; only the
construction of the large Narmada Sagar reservoir in Madhya Pradesh upstream would optimize the
power benefits of Sardar Sarovar. In addition, the Bank was considering involvements in power
transmission and in the canal network.
5.13 Regarding social and environmental effects, a Director queried: (i) whether there were still
any ill-defined areas of responsibility among states and GOI for implementing and monitoring
resettlement that could cause delays in resolving problems; and (ii) whether the relatively undefined
environmental studies and potential problems arising made future consideration and implementation
of study recommendations too uncertain. He also asked if the Bank's semi-annual reports on
project status and execution could note the state of progress with these aspects. Another Director
supported this sentiment to keep the Board informed. Yet another Director, voicing similar
concerns about social and environmental effects, expressed concern that the Bank was paying
insufficient attention to issues like resettlement at the earlier stages of project preparation.
5.14 Management responded that each state had established a resettlement wing, staffed with
responsible and experienced officers, to conduct the program. The states were also expected to
contract with independent research institutions that would monitor and evaluate its implementation.
Furthermore, the Central Government and the interstate Narmada Control Authority would
coordinate overall monitoring and evaluation of the resettlement plan. Management also indicated
that although a full environmental impact assessment had not been completed, a comprehensive
first-stage assessment had been conducted by the University of Baroda and then examined by
members of the Bank appraisal team. That study had covered public health, flora and fauna,
fisheries, wildlife and archeology and had determined that there were no endangered species in the
area. Management said that by the end of the calendar year, each state govermment was expected to
prepare an environmental work program, which would be submitted to the Bank for approval.
Under covenants in the Loan/Credit Agreements, these programs would include training for
environmental staff. Sufficient time (15-18 months) would be available before the commencement
of construction to remedy any defects in the environmental work program.
5.15  Management also promised to cover the social and environmental aspects explicitly in the
semi-annual reports and to keep the Board informed of progress - especially if difficulties in need
of remedy emerged'. Staff expressed the view that institutional arrangements and responsibilities
4     Reference to this promise was found in the verbatim trmnscript of the March 7. 1985 Board meeting, but
wa not specifically indicated in the Summary of Board Discussions (SD85-10) of March 21, 1985)



9
for resettlement were firm enough at that pointL They admitted that there was no full environmental
impact assessment, but they felt that legal covenants covered these aspects adequately. In this
view, there was sufficient time to complete studies before construction commenced.
5.16 Other issues discussed were electricity tariffs for satisfactory ERRs, financial analysis of
power projects and the sensitivity of the economic analysis to cost estimates. After a thorough
discussion by Board members, the two projects were approved unanimously. The discussion
flagged significant concerns about R&R and the environmenL
5.17 In sum, these Board concerns are important because they reveal the early exposure of all
parties in the Bank to the R&R and environmental issues, and the attention afforded to them. The
Bank not only kept the Board informed through regular semi-annual reports, but as critics were
becoming more vocal, it held briefing meetings from 1990 onwards at the request of the most
concerned EDs, in particular those of Netherlands, UK, US and Germany. In addition, Bank staff
responded to a large number of queries by many EDs throughout implementation.
Organization
5.18 Initially, the Narmada Development Department, a GOG agency, was responsible for
project implementation. In May 1988, however, this responsibility was transferred to a para-statal
corporation called the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd. (SSNNL) to deal more efficiently with
the complex technical, financial and administrative requirements of the project, and to allow the
necessary funds to be raised in the financial markets. SSNNL was organized on a functional
basis: under the Chairman there was a Director for the Dam, a Director for Canals, and a Director
of Administration for personnel and finance.  Procurement was centralized in a Central
Procurement Unit, and designs of all canals, concrete structures and mechanical installations were
centralized under an Engineer-in-Chief for Designs. A separate R&R wing was created with a
General Manager to oversee the R&R of project-affected persons. SSNNL also established a
comprehensive computer-based Management Information System (MIS) that allowed efficient
control and monitoring of all operations, including contractors' performance. Finally, SSNNL
turned over the operation and maintenance (O&M) of village service areas to water users'
associations with the objective of having these associations construct the distribution and drainage
systems on behalf of SSNNL to give their members a sense of participation and ownership.
5.19  In view of the unusual magnitude, complexity and highly specialized nature of the water
delivery and drainage project, involving special design and construction problems, the GOG
accepted a Bank recommendation to create a Board of Consultants (BOC) to review technical
designs, criteria, standards and specifications prepared by the Central Designs Organization . The
BOC utilized both local and foreign consultants and held meetings at regular intervals, to
independently review and resolve special technical issues.
5.20  In view of the multi-state nature of the project, and in accordance with the rulings of the
NWDT, a number of multi-state agencies were also established: the Narmada Control Authority
(NCA), to ensure compliance with the decisions of NWDT and coordinate the SSP project
activities among the party states; the Sardar Sarovar Construction Advisory Committee (SSCAC),
to supervise the planning, design and construction of the dam and power complex; and
the Narmada Review Committee (NRC), comprising the Chief Ministers of the four state
governments, to rule on any decisions taken by NCA.
Design of the Irrigation System
5.21   The entire project was divided into 13 agro-climatic zones, with each zone sub-divided in
turn into irrigation and drainage development blocks ranging from 4,000 ha to 10,000 ha. There
were 52 development blocks in Phase I which were sub-divided into village service areas (VSAs)



10
of about 500 ha each, the VSAs were then divided into Chaks of about 40 ha each. A key feature
of project design was the integration of various components such as irrigation, drainage and road
networks within development blocks, in order to improve agricultural productivity and minimize
construction works. The project design envisioned a canal system that would be lined from the
headworks down to the 8 ha sub-chak, to minimize water losses in the conveyance system. In
addition, the plan was to operate the main canal, branch canals and distributaries down to the 8.5
m3/sec level on the concept of control volume, which automatically balances inflows with
outflows. For that purpose, the conveyance system was to be equipped with cross-regulators and
control gates operated by a state-of-the-art remote control and monitoring system, involving a
central control unit linked through a fiber optic communication system to a large number of remote
control units distributed throughout the command area. In a second phase, the plan was to extend
the remote control system from the 8.5 m3/sec level down to the heads of the village service areas.
Within the VSA, a system of rotational water supply (RWS) was to allocate water to farmers by
turn and in proportion to the size of individual holdings. Under this system, the distributory and
minor canals were to be ungated and operate "On" and "Ofr under a free flowing concept. Water
users associations at the VSA level were also to be formed.
Hydology and Water Availabilityl
5.22 The mean water availability for irrigation and D,M&I water was estimated at 17,900 Mm3
(14.5 MAF) per year of which 13,800 Mm3 (11.2 MAF) from the Narmada River, 3,700 Mm3
(3.0 MAF) from groundwater in the command area, and 400 Mm 3 (0.3 MAF) from en route rivers
in the command ara The average water requirements were estimated at 17,100 Mm3 (13.9 MAF)
per year of which 15,800 Mm3 (12.8 MAF) for irrigation and 1,300 Mm3 (1.1 MAF) for D,M&I.
The irrigation water requirements were based on an irrigation intensity of 106% -- i.e., the
irrigation of about 52% of the total CCA in kharif (monsoon season), and 54% in rabi (winter dry
season). Overall irrigation water use efficiency was estimated at 48% for surface water and 60%
for groundwater irrigation. As indicated previously, the size of the command area of 1.79 M ha
was determined in accord with the objective of spreading project benefits as widely as possible.
Consequently, at no time will the full CCA be irrigated. Overall, the amount of water will not be
large in relation to the area and the number of persons to be served at full development -- about
8,450 m3/ha on average for the kharif and rabi crops, and about 95 I/day per inhabitant for
domestic and municipal uses at head works.
5.23 A number of questions relating to the project hydrology were raised by the Report of the
Independent Review6 commissioned by the Bank. These questions concerned: (i) the accuracy of
flow measurements and the integrity of flow records, both measured and hindcast series; (ii) the
accuracy of dependable flows derived from the flow series and used by the NWDT in 1979 for
allocating water shares among the four states; and (iii) the ability to meet the planned water
requirements of the SSP command area
5.24 In response, the Borrower requested the Central Water Commission (CWC) to review the
project's hydrology and the Bank engaged in consultation with and on behalf of the Borrower a
consultant firm to prepare a status note on the validity of the questions raised by the Independent
5     See Annex I on Hydrology and Wte Manage.nnt for more details.
6     See Section on Environmot below for deails on the events that pvceded nd followed the publication
of the Independent Review Repost in June 1992.



11
Review, and their likely impact on the project performance7. This step was taken even though a
review of the project hydrology and water resources was not part of the benchmarks; the consultant
worked in conjunction with the CWC. The findings of the consultants, which do not agree with all
the findings and recommendations of the Independent Review, are summarized below.
5.25 With respect to questions (i) and (ii), the consultant's report noted that the NarTnada River
has been gauged at Garudeshwar, a few kilometers below the Sardar Sarovar Dam since 1948, and
at 32 other gauging stations upstream set up after 1948. It concludes that the primary flow records
are sound overall and adequate for the project. This conclusion is based on a comparison of
hindcast and actual flows series and tests of the data sets to check inferred water balance in nearby
catchments. The CWC has also analyzed the data set, including both measured flows from 1948 to
1990 and the series of hindcast from 1891 to 1948. The 42 year-long measured series yields
values slightly lower than the combined hindcast/measured 100 year series. An analysis of the
rainfall records shows that the lower flows since 1948 do not constitute an emerging trend but are a
consequence of natural variability. The 100 year series is, therefore, considered representative of
the Narmada River flows and yields a 75% dependable annual flow of 32,900 Mm3 (26.6 MAF),
which confirms the value of 27 MAF used by the NWDT.
5.26 Question (iii) concerned the SAR estimates for the SSP project, which were based on
operational studies carried out by an Indian consultant firm working for NPG in 1983. The
consultants carried out simplified operational studies to verify the match between demand and
supply during the 1948-1990 period of observed flow records. Their findings can be summarized
as follows:
5.27 From 1995 to 2005 i.e., between the early years of development and completion of the
SSP command area as currently planned, the Sardar Sarovar Dam alone will be sufficient to
provide the necessary regulation and storage to supply the irrigation and D,M&I demands of the
project. However, from about 2000, as the SSP and upstream demands build up, the risk of
shortages in the drier years increases progressively. A ten-year delay in the construction of the
Narmada Sagar Dam, which assumes completion by 2002, will have little impact on irrigation and
D,M&I but will reduce power generation. Provision of a lower level Irrigation By-Pass Tunnel
(IBPT)s, as recommended by the Bank to increase live storage, will allow increased flexibility
during the dry years. Beyond year 2005, the Narmada Sagar reservoir becomes a necessity, if the
command area develops to the size planned.
5.28 From 2005 to 2024 i.e., between completion of the SSP command area and the date at
which the Tribunal award may be revised, the increase in demand comes primarily from upstream
development in MP and Maharashtra. At this level of development: (i) the DM&I demands can be
met every year, except in the severest droughts such as that of 1899/1900; (ii) the demand of kharif
crops will be met with a 100% dependability except in the severest drought year; and (iii) the
demand of rabi crops will be met with a 90% dependability. The lower level EBPT would ensure
that these demands are met in full.
5.29 By 2024, i.e., the date at which the NWDT award may be revised, the kharif crops
demand will be met with a 80% dependability and that of rabi crops with a 85% dependability.
However, in the long tern, if MP and Maharashtra make use of their full allocation, the frequency
7     Ihe consullay was fiance out of an Oversu Development Agency (ODA) of United KGngdom Trust
Fund managed by the Bank. Its purpose was to usist the Borrower in meedng the benchmarks set by
the Board by March 31. 1993.
S     Refer to the Dam and Power PCR for mom details on the IEPT.



12
impact on the kharif crop will remain about the same but the proportion of years in which the rabi
demand can be met in fuU falls to between 50 and 60%.
5.30 In their simplified operational studies, the consultants made some reasonable assumptions
with regard to water availability. In particular, they assumed that, by 2024 - the date at which the
NWDT award may be revised - the demand from MP is likely to lie between 12,000 and 18,000
Mm3 (10 and 15 MAF) as against 18.25 MAF assumed by the NWDT. The consultants have
therefore used the figure of 16,000 Mm3 (13 MAF) or about 70% of the NWDT aUlocation.
However, with regard to water availability and water requirements in the command area, the
consultants were clearly over optimistic for various reasons: (i) they assumed that the invert level
of the IBPT would be fixed at its lowest elevation; (ii) they used NPG figures which are based on
an irrigation intensity of 84.5% and an overall irrigation efficiency of 60%, as against more
realistic assumptions of 106% and 48%, respectively, made in the SAR; (iii) they used the average
monthly crop water requirements by region instead of actual requirements; and (iv) they assumed
that groundwater was uniformly distributed over the entire command area and could be mined to
meet annual deficits. As a result, the consultants have overestimated water availability and
underestimated crop water requirements, and in the end, Gujarat is likely to require more water
than its allocation under the NWDT unless certain steps described in para. 5.23 below are taken. A
sensitivity analysis carried out by the consultant shows that, with a possible 20% increase in water
requirements, by 2005 there will be insufficient water in an average year without Nannada Sagar,
and with the Narmada Sagar Dam, the 75% dependability would not be meL However, it should
be noted that these assumptions are only of relevance if it is assumed that Gujarat is limited to 9.0
MAF regardless of flow, whereas the reality will be that for many years a much larger flow will be
availablc. Recognizing the limitations of their rapid analysis, the consultants have recommended
that these defects be redressed in the detailed updating of the operational model that an Indian
consultant firm is undertaking on behalf of NPG.
5.31 There are several reasons to assume that actual irrigation water requirements will be higher
than those estimated by the NPG and the SAR. Ei= the crop water requirements were based, in
both cases, on averages rather than on actual requirements calculated upon a monthly analysis of
effective rainfall and consumption as recommended by FAO; second the gross water requirements
at headworks estimated by NPG were based on an overall irrigation efficiency of 60%, whereas
the usual estimate for such projects is less than 50% as in the SAR; 1hidb in the case of the SAR,
crop water requirements were reduced by 10% on the assumption that fanners will use less
irrigation water than the estimated amount, due to the limited quantities of water to be supplied;
fourihb due to the fact that the main canal and also the Saurashtra and Kutch branch canals will be
flowing across hundreds of kilometers of drought-prone areas, it will be very difficult - if not
impossible - to control authorized and unauthorized diversions of water to irrigate areas outside the
cultivable command area. To remedy this problem it would have been advisable to increase the
estimated irrigation water requirements by 10%, as has been done in many other projects in India;
fiLh, and most importantly, experience shows that irrigation projects, designed for a low irrigation
intensity and for which construction is not completed when water becomes available, tend to
consume more water in the initial years than the design allocation. Thereafter, it is difficult to
reduce water allocations when the project becomes fully developed. This difficulty stems from the
fact that farmers want to continue to apply water to the areas designed for rainfed crops - 30% in
the case of SSP - and any reduction in water allocations automatically results in a loss of income.9
9     The Borrower notes that the possibility of higher irrigation water requirements is a practical problem
wing not only in this project but also in other projects in India. However, with the controlled volume
concept of water supply, the lining of canals, involving farmen in tbe uLilization of water, the project
efficiency (60%) can be achieved and upsuram abstraction, misuse, etc. can be controlled to a great
extent. The actual requirement could be contained well within the designed requirements.



13
5.32  When taking into account the above observations, the project as currently designed to the
full command area is likely to require more water than the share allocated to Gujarat by the NWDT
before year 2024.10 Since Madhya Pradesh is not likely to use its fullwater allocation, before that
date some arrangements could be made between Gujarat and MP on the use of excess waters. If
Gujarat is forced to limit its demands to its present allocation, the SSP command area will face
increasing significant shortages as water demand builds up. The options for Gujarat will be to: (i)
hope for an increased allocation when the Water Tribunal is reopened; (ii) cut back on the irrigation
of rabi crops and give more importance to the kharif irrigated crops; (iii) reduce the size of the
command area; or (iv) gradually pursue greater water use efficiency through the adoption of
modern on-farm water application methods, and a shift toward less water-demanding crops.
Since cutting back on irrigation is likely to be resisted by farmers, the best option initially, which is
immediately feasible, would be to develop the command area step-by-step by giving priority to the
development of irrigation in the areas yielding the best returns, and the development of D,M&I in
the areas less suited for irrigation. Given the low rate of return from the least economic parts of the
command and the high value of D,M&I water, this option is likely to improve the returns.
However, in the long run, the best option would be to develop sprinkler and drip irrigation and
promote less water-demanding crops through additional investments and agricultural extension.
Groundwater and Cogjunctive Use
5.33 At full development, groundwater is expected to contribute about 3,700 Mm3 or about 25%
of the total water availability for the project This amount is based on the natural annual recharge
from rainfall and the additional recharge from irrigation. The Phase I areas around the Vadodara
branch have a good aquifer, except for zone 4 along the Gulf of Khambat. The areas around the
Saurashtra branch have an average aquifer, with some patches of brackish water (particularly in
zone 7 along the Gulf of Khambat). The tail end of the main canal and the Kutch branch have poor
and generally brackish aquifers. Groundwater is not uniformly distributed throughout the
command area, and it is estimated that about 40% of the groundwater is slightly brackish and will
have to be blended with fresh canal water to be useable for irrigation.
5.34 Groundwater development is expected to be implemented by private and public sector
enterprises. The private sector is expected to represent about 60% of all groundwater
development It will develop mostly the fresh water aquifers. The public sector will develop the
remaining 40% of mostly brackish waters through augmentation tubewells. Public wells will also
be developed for drainage purposes, in areas where the groundwater table rises within 5.0 m of the
ground level. Groundwater development is expected to take place progressively over a period of
10 years, beginning about 5 years after the first irrigation.
5.35 The Gujarat Groundwater Development Corporation (GWRDC) is the government agency
in charge of investigations and monitoring of groundwater development. It has prepared
groundwater models with the assistance of local consultants for various parts of the command area
The model for Phase I area is the most detailed. However, the various existing groundwater
models need to be consolidated into one general model, as Bank consultants have recommended,
using the same methodologies, recharge principles and boundary conditions. This new model is
being developed and should become available by December 1994.
5.36 Though the theory of conjunctive use and vertical drainage has been well thought out, it
must now be translated into specific guidelines for the design and construction of the irrigation
blocks. The PCR mission noted that groundwater development was not yet integrated in the
design of the initial 52 irrigation blocks. This omission needs to be redressed soon through a
10    Ibe Borrower is of the opinion that the unau(orized ure of water in excess of the volume allocatd by
the NWDT to Gujarat would not arie since NCA is to monitor the allocation of water to each state.



14
detailed groundwater survey of each of the initial blocks, indicating where private and public
groundwater developments are expected to take place and the amounts of water which are expected
to be extracted.
Conclusion
5.37 The above points demonstrate the need to further refine and adjust the initial assumptions
and basic data used by the project designers and the appraisal team some 15 years ago. The
revision of the initial studies is all the more needed when taking into consideration: (i) the slower
development of water resources upstream of the SSP dam than anticipated by the NWDT, (ii) the
changing attitudes of farmers toward more intensive and remunerative agriculture than initially
anticipated, (iii) the need to reduce water use to remain within the frame work of the NWDT
award, unless some special arrangements are negotiated with the riparian states, and (iv) the need
to build into the project design the results of the Environmental Impact Assessment which is
expected to be completed by December 1994. These points will require the preparation of more
refined simulation studies to establish the magnitude of regulated flows obtainable from the Sardar
Sarovar reservoir, the groundwater availability in various locations, the en route rivers, and also to
make better estimates of actual water requirements. These studies should: (a) adjust the water
allocations policies among the various users in accordance with any subsequent agreement that may
be reached among the riparian states; (b) define the groundwater development and conjunctive use
policies in the various regions of the command; (c) refine the groundwater models to determine the
quantity of groundwater usable and amount of mining possible for each project location; (d) refine
the river flow and dam operation simulation model, based on realistic development scenarios
upstream, realistic return flows and updated water flow, groundwater availability and water
requirements; (e) review the water use policies and the design of the distribution networks on the
basis of findings of the simulation model; (f) proceed with the required adjustments in the initial
project design wherever still possible; and (g) revise the economic analysis on the basis of the
proposed adjustments. Most of these measures and studies are underway or being considered.
6.    Project Implementation
General
6.1   The Credit became effective in January 1986, nine months after Board approval, but
construction could start only in July 1987 after G01 released its environmental clearance for the
projecL This delay of about two years resulted in a late award of contracts for the initial reaches of
both the main canal and the major branch canals, and it soon became apparent that the project
targets could not be completed within the expected three-year period. Therefore, a more realistic
implementation schedule was drawn up in December 1989, with a completion date of July 1992.
Subsequently, the Credit closed on July 1, 1992 after being extended 39 months, first through an
extension of 3 months, followed by three extensions of one year each. These successive
extensions were used as leverage to improve overall project performance not only of the irrigation
and drainage components, but also of the R&R component implemented under the Dam & Power
project. For example, one of the main conditions for extensions in July 1989 and July 1990 was
the release of about 2,700 ha of forest lands for the resettlement and rehabilitation of project-
affected people from Maharashtra at Taloda.
Civil Eng ng
6.2   The project experienced serious start-up problems relating to quality and construction
slippages. On August 31, 1988, the Bank communicated to GOG and GOI a list of 'critical
implementation steps' that were to be taken by NDD to meet the project objectives. These
included:



15
a.   implementing a comprehensive Management Plan to demonstrate SSNNL's
institutional and technical capability for caffying out SSP;
b.    establishing an adequately staffed and computerized MIS, including a fully
operational multi-calendar scheduling package;
c.    preparing a master PERT-type Revised Implementation Schedule (RIS) for the
entire SSP, reflecting realistic physical and financial implementation schedules;
d.    strengthening the independent technical review capability of the BOC to address the
canal design and constuction deficiencies;
e.    completing an independent and comprehensive review of the present designs of
major canals and related structures;
f.    undertaking a complete review of all works to determine their acceptability in terms
of relevant contract provisions, and initiating actions to remove contractors whose
work was found in violation of contract specifications;
g.   reviewing the suitability of contractors' acquisitions of equipment and their
equipment planning; and
h.    enforcing all existing contract requirements on the contractors.
6.3  In October 1988, the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) set up a six-member Team of
Indian Experts (TOE) to review and address the serious technical, organizational, iuplemenational
and quality control problems highlighted by the Bank Thereafter, in December 1988 a Bank
team met with officials of GOI (MOWR, CWC, DEA, and NCA), GOG, GOMP and SSNNL to
review the actions taken by the Borrower. This meeting resulted in a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) on additional steps to be taken by the Borrower. Another important
outcome of the MOU was a GOI agreement to add three expatriate consultants to the TOE. The
TOE's terms of reference were to:
a.    examine construction quality, adequacy of quality control and supervision
arrangements;
b.   review construction methods and the adequacy of construction equipment with
contractors, and their overall capability of achieving the desired progress;
c.   identify bottlenecks and suggest measures for accelerating progress;
d.    examine the fulfillment of stipulations made in the Bank's letter of August 31,
1988;
e.   recommend organizational and institutional improvements;
f.   review and evaluate all aspects of construction supervision; and
g.    examine the project's planning and design for the canals and distribution system,
with particular reference to, inter alia, the design of a selected number of major
canal structures, sizing and operational control of the water delivery and drainage
system, altemative types of structures for major river crossings of the main canal
and branch canals, the practicability of designs and sequencing of construction,
uniformity of design standards, and procedures for intemal checking of designs.



16
6.4   On March 23, 1989, the nine-member TOE finalized its report after visiting the project
areas. The TOE found construction of the main canal to be substantially behind schedule because
of "teething problems" encountered with the machine lining equipment. However, it expressed
hope that such problems would soon be resolved, and felt that the recently expanded SSNNL
would be able to handle the increased work load. The team also declared that work quality on the
canal structures was generally satisfactory and that the quality of canal lining had been improved
considerably. The team concluded that the Nigam staff had the necessary capability to implement
the project, and made a number of recommendations to further enhance project implementation.
6.5   From 1990 onwards, after the initial start-up problems were overcome and the TOE
recommendations were implemented, construction quality improved significantly and high quality
standards were maintained for the construction of the main canal and major concrete structures,
including bridges, regulators, cross-regulators and aqueducts. Construction quality on branch
canals also improved substantially over time, and could be considered good at the time of the PCR.
The introduction of mechanized concrete lining for the main and branch canals, along with PVC
insertion in the longitudinal and transverse contraction joints concurrent with concrete placement,
helped to achieve good progress and excellent quality. Mechanizing the construction of the major
hydraulic structures also helped to accelerate the pace of implementation. Because hand placement
of concrete was eliminated, the quality of concrete lining on the main canal and the quality of cons-
truction on major hydraulic structures were both higher than normal for Indian irrigation schemes
and could meet international standards.
6.6   By the time of the PCR mission, the performance of the Borrower was encouraging.
Performance of contractors had improved considerably, the overall pace of implementation was
good in relation to Indian standards, and the institutional arrangements for quality control and
quality assurance were in place and staffed by competent engineers. These achievements were due
to the introduction of several innovative features relating to:
a.   the mechanization of canal lining, which included the use of: (i) cement in bulk,
conforming to upgraded standards recommended by an Experts Committee on
Cement and Concrete (ECCC), (ii) centralized concrete batching plants, (iii) transit
mixers, (iv) paver machines, (v) PVC water stops in contraction joints, and (vi)
chemical compounds to ensure the proper curing of concrete;
b.   the construction of major hydraulic structures, which benefitted also from
innovative and state-of-the-art technologies;
c.   the establishment of a competent Quality Control and Quality Assurance
organization with well equipped laboratories to supervise and control the use of
these technologies; and
d.   the development of an MIS that allowed tight control of operations and contract
performance.
6.7  In September 1991, the Credit Agreement was amended to include the partial construction
of 7 additional blocks (52,600 ha) within the initial reach of the main canal. This was done
because of concem that the 12 irrigation and drainage blocks financed by the Bank might not
receive water when completed, due to delays in the construction of the Orsang Aqueduct.
Although construction work could not be initiated by the Nigam before the Credit closed, in
February 1993 the PCR mission leamed that the Nigam had let the contracts for the construction of
both the 7 additional and 12 original blocks, representing 52,462 ha out of a total CCA of
9,900 ha.



17
6.8   The pace of project implementation was reduced somewhat after the Credit closed, due to
shortage of funds, it was further reduced after the Borrower requested the Bank, on March 29,
1993 to cancel the undisbursed balance of the Loan for the Dam and Power project. In any case,
the record pace of construction achieved in 1992 could not be maintained, and many ongoing
contracts began to suffer from lack of payment. Only a few essential contracts were kept active on
the main and branch canals and in the development blocks, in order to have a minimum of 15,000
to 20,000 ha ready for irrigation by June 1995, when water is expected to be released for the first
time in the main canal. All contracts on the main canal beyond the Mahi River (kam 144) and on the
Saurashtra branch, which were to form part of the project's Phase lI, were suspended. These
contracts were in the process of being reinstated in February 1994, after the Nigam was able to
raise additional funds from the financial markets.
6.9   The SSNNL was timely in its preparation of the 3-volume draft plans of operation and
maintenance (POM) for the canal system and head works. In addition, the drafts of this document,
compiled in loose binding, were periodically revised and updated by the Nigam through the
incorporation of Bank comments, review and comments of Engineer-in-Chief Designs, and
suggestions given by BOC from time to time. The Nigam's Mechanical Consultant estimated the
equipment and personnel requirements for establishing workshops in the various areas of the canal
system. Once the remote control and monitoring system for canal operation is fixed, the Nigam
wilU need to update the POM again to incorporate al the specifications of this state-of-the-art
system involving fiber-optic telecommunications, computers operating in real time, sensors, and
electrical equipment for gate operation. This would include the establishment of a special O&M
wing within the O&M unit, and intensive training for specialized Nigam staff.
Procurement
6.10  There were no major procurement issues during project implementation. The SAR gave a
clear description of the packaging of works, and there was clear agreement regarding the
prequalification of contractors. Initially, there were some problems in finalizing the model bidding
documents, but these were discussed and resolved satisfactorily. The Borrower followed the
Bank's guidelines diligently and most contracts progressed well, with two exceptions ( Main Canal
from 58 to 82 km, and 4 Main Canal Structures). In these cases, the contracts were foreciosed and
alternate contractors were hired.
6.11 Local shopping was provided for in the Credit Agreement but force account was not
contemplated. For future irrigation projects, it would be better to provide for force account for at
least 10 to 15% of civil works. The reason being that, in India, the Irrigation Departments are
geared to carry out some of the civil works departmentally. The Irrigation Departments can in
many cases implement special works for which contractors have no experience or are not
responsive, or complete works on behalf of contractors when these fail. Natural calamities, such
as floods during the monsoon season, may require emergency works to be carried out at short
notice with departmental equipment and staff.
Project Cost Budgeting and Financing
6.12   The project cost estimates and expenditures, component-wise, are presented in Part m,
Table S. At appraisal, the total project cost - including the completion of the Main Canal up to
Mahi Aqueduct, branch canals, and the 12 irrigation and development blocks (96,900 ha), as well
as physical and price contingencies -- was estimated at Rs. 6,251 million, the cost of the 3-year
time slice was Rs. 3,059 M, or about 50% of total costL At Credit closure, the revised estimate for
total project costs had increased to about Rs. 13,720 million, a 220% increase over the appraisal
estimates. By the Credit Closing Date, the sum of Rs. 6,613.35 million had been spent, 48% of
the revised total cost, to complete about 60% of the SAR physical targets for the 3-year time slice.



18
A balance of Rs. 7,106.65 M remains to be spent for achieving the SAR physical targets. In dollar
terms, the revised project cost is estimated at US$486.4 M, compared to the appraisal cost of
USS520.9 M. This reduction in dollar costs is due to the devaluation of the rupee against the
dollar, from Rs.12 at appraisal to about Rs.36 expected at completion in June 1995.
6.13  Financial implementation of the project, component-wise, is indicated in Table 6, Part Im.
An IDA Credit of SDR149.5 M (US$150.0 M) was signed on May 10, 1985 and became effective
on January 6, 1986, to finance about 30% of total project cost, net of taxes and duties. No co-
financing arrangements were made for the canal project. On December 5, 1991, the Credit amount
was reduced to SDR 144.7 M, through the cancellation of SDR 4.8 M. On September 17, 1992,
the Credit balance was fully disbursed. An expenditure of Rs. 6,613.35 M (approx. US$289.60
M) was incurred by the Credit Closing Date, compared to the SAR estimate of Rs. 3,058.72 M
(USS254.86 M). Though in rupee terms this expenditure represented an increase of 116% as a
result of the higher cost of project components mostly due to the high quality standards applied in
civil works. The effect in dollar terms was small - an increase of only 13.5% - due to continued
depreciation of the rupee against the dollar. On September 1, 1990, the disbursement percentage
for the civil works category was increased from 60% to 90%. Actual disbursements for other
Credit categories are given in Part Ell, Table 6. The civil works category was fully drawn down,
but only 36% of the technical assistance category was spent. This under-utilization was due
chiefly to the Borroweres administrative difficulties in recruiting international consultants, and also
to the fact that the major consultancy for the design and installation of a remote control and
monitoring system for canal operation could not be implemented during the Credit disbursement
period. The financing of this consultancy was then transferred to the Dam and Power Project,
because of its importance for the project's overall operation. However, on March 30, 1993, just a
few days after the technical and financial proposals were evaluated and submitted to the Bank, the
Borrower decided to cancel the Dam and Power Loan. The training component was not adequately
disbursed, due to delays in finalizing the training programs, the construction of buildings, the
procurement of training equipment for O&M (including the remote control and monitoring system),
and in implementing the R&R and environmental project components.
6.14 Disbursements were slow during the first four years of project implementation but picked
up at the end of the project. In fact, during the last two years SDR 101.5 M was disbursed,
representing 70% of the revised Credit amount. However, the fast pace of implementation could
not be maintained for lack of funds, particularly once the Dam and Power Loan was closed. In
view of this shortage of funds, the Borrower appears to have given priority to the completion of
the Sardar Sarovar Dam and, therefore, only 20,000 to 40,000 ha will be ready for irrigation by
July 1995, the scheduled date for the release of water from Sardar Sarovar Dam into the main
canal. In October 1993, after a long delay, the SSNNL issued bonds at an attractive rate of 17.5%
over 30 years on the local market. The bond issue succeeded in raising Rs. 3,700 M (USS 120M).
This amount, though small when compared to total requirements, should alleviate the shortage of
funds and allow project implementation to regain momentum in the short-term. In view of the
success of its first fund raising operation, SSNNL intends to issue bonds on a yearly basis.
7.   Environment
Backgtound
7.1   The environmental aspects of this project received an unusual amount of attention from its
inception and particularly from 1989 onwards. More specifically, the project came under heavy
criticism by advocacy groups and NGOs, first within India and then from abroad, who charged the
Bank with failing to address important environmental concerns or to satisfy the R&R needs of
project-affected people.



19
7.2    At the time the project was being prepared and appraised, forest clearance was required
under the Indian Forest Conservation Act of 1980. Shortly after the Board approved the project,
India passed the Environmental Protection Act of 1986 which required that an Environmental
Impact Assessment be prepared as part of the environmental clearance process. During the period
leading to project approval by the Bank in March 1985, a number of environmental studies were
prepared by the Borrower to obtain the required environmental clearancell. During the protracted
identification phase of the project and for most of its preparation stage, Bank environmental
guidelines were practically non-existent. The Guidelines prevailing at the time of project
Negotiations (November 1984) and Board Presentation (March 1985) were those contained in
Operational Manual Statement (OMS) 2.36 issued in May 1984 entitled "Environmental Aspects of
Bank Work".
Evolution of Bank Environmental Policies
7.3   OMS 2.36 recognized that the Bank's environmental policy was still evolving.
Nevertheless, the basic environmental concerns and principles for processing projects were well
covered. In particular, OMS 2.36 required that projects with unavoidable adverse effects on the
environment should contain a compensatory component adequate to mitigate these effects. It
indicated that at the identification stage, such projects should be identified and the investigations
needed to prevent or mitigate the adverse effects should be determined. During preparation, the
Borrower was to carry out the necessary enquiries, and Bank staff was to outline in the Project
Brief the measures needed to avoid or mitigate serious environmental risks or enhance
environmental benefits and point out any problems that merited further studies at this stage. At
appraisal, Staff was to assess the environmental findings, evaluate the future magnitude and timing
of adverse effects, and assess whether the preventive, mitigatory or remedial measures
recommended were adequate. The SAR was to describe the environmental measures being
provided. At Negotiations, the environmental aspects were to be discussed with the Borrower and
the legal agreements could contain covenants or other provisions concerned with these aspects.
Finally, OMS 2.36 indicated that supervision missions were to routinely review the environmental
aspects with the Borrower and must ensure that the measures agreed upon were adequately and
responsibly administered.
7.4   Thereafter, the Bank issued in October 1989 Operational Directive 4.00 with an Annex A
on "Environmental Assessment". Annex A outlines the Bank's policy and procedures for the
environmental assessment (EA) lending operations, and related types of environmental analysis.
The purpose of EA is to ensure that the development options under consideration are
environmentally sound and sustainable, and that any environmental consequences are recognized
early in the project cycle and taken into account in the project design. The Annex states that the
detail and sophistication of the analysis should be commensurate with the expected impacts and that
there could be either project-specific EAs or regional and sectoral EAs. It recommends institutional
strengthening, staff training, involvement of affected groups and NGOs, and for major projects
with serious multi-dimensional environmental concerns, the recruitment of an Environmental
Advisory Panel of independent, internationally recognized, environmental specialists to review and
advise on, inter-alia, the TOR and findings of the EA. Each project is to be screened in four
categories (from A to D) based upon the nature, magnitude, and sensitivity of environmental
issues. Category A, under which the SSP falls, requires the preparation of a detailed EA prior to
appraisal and the inclusion of an environmental annex in the SAR summarizing the EA. The
Annex specifis that the detailed EA should comprise, inter alia, a mitigation plan and a monitoring
plan to be carried out during project implementation. Furtlhermore, Category A projects requires a
formal clearance from the Regional Environment Division before Negotiations can proceed
11    The lst of envirnmental studies cuned out by the Bonower is outlined in the Environmental
Inlormation Volume prepuWd by T.P. Whittington, July 1992.



20
7.5  In July 1991, the Bank published an Environmental Assessment Source Book in three
volumes to provide guidance throughout the EA process described in OD 4.00. This Source Book
is comprehensive and provides checklists, outlines and samples for a number of typical
environmental studies and EAs. FinaUy, on October 1991 the Bank issued Operational Directive
4.01 to replace OMS 2.36 that confirms the policies and guidelines provided in Annex A of OD
4.00 and the Source Boolc
7.6   Thus, the Bank policies and procedures became more stringent between Board Presentation
and Project Completion of the project. In a sense, the SAR was ahead of its time when it
specifiedl2 that the Borrower (NPG) was to prepare, during project implementation, a detailed
environmental assessment and necessary actions for protective measures for the command area as
well as an afforestation plan for the command area, including special zone use. However, the
Legal Documents failed to mention the need to prepare a detailed EA within a fixed time-frame but
required that Gujarat should take all such measures as shall be necessary to minimize the risk of
malaria, filaria, schistosomiasis, and other water-related diseases that may result from the
implementation of the project"3
Thme Boffowers Environmental Cearce
7.7   The Water Delivery and Drainage project and the Dam and Power project were approved
together in March 1985 and became effective on January 6, 1986, without the Borrower's formal
forest clearance as per the stipulations of the Forest Conservation AcL Thereafter, the Ministry of
Environment and Forests (MOEF) gave a conditional environmental clearance for the canal and
Dam Projects on June 24, 1987, while noting at the same time that existing surveys were
incomplete and that full details would have to be submitted by 1989 as per an agreed schedule.
The additional studies related to the preparation of a: (i) rehabilitation master plan, (ii) phased area
catchment treatment scheme, (iii) compensatory afforestation plan, (iv) command area
environmental assessment, (v) survey of flora and fauna, (vi) report on the carrying capacity of
surrounding areas, (vi) report on seismicity, and (vii) report on health aspects. The clearance also
indicated that the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) "will ensure that environmental safeguards
measures are planned and implemented pari pasu with progress of work on projects". SSNNL,
NCA and NPG interpreted this to mean that all further environmental studies needed were to be
finished as and when required and in any case not later than the dam's completion date. Finally,
the clearance emphasized that it did not cover the release of forest lands, which would be subject to
a separate clearance in line with the Forest Conservation Act of 1980.
7.8   Subsequently, on September 8, 1987 the MOEF gave the requisite forest clearance for the
submergence of 13,385 ha by the Sardar Sarovar Dam, subject to the following conditions: (i)
detailed compensatory afforestation plans would be submitted by September 30, 1987; (ii)
compensatory afforestation would be double the area affected in degraded forest and once the area
in non forest areas; (iii) a catchment area treatment plan would be prepared by November 30, 1987;
and (iv) no forest lands would be utilized for the resettlement of project-affected people -- even
though this condition contradicted Legal Agreements with the Bank under the project stipulating
that forest lands could be released for the settlement of people forced to relocate. Finally, in
October 1988, te Government of India Planning Commission also gave its formal endorsement to
the project, again subject to several conditions relating to envirounment and R&R.
12    See pam. 3.3 above
13    Gujat Project Ageement. Section 2.16 of May 10. 1935.



21
7.9   The Borrower's coordination of environmental work, under the aegis of NCA, remained
weak through-out project implementation. Many individual studies and plans were completed by
the Impact Division of MOEF and the implementing agencies and were reviewed by the
Environmental Sub-group of NCA. These studies concerned compensatory afforestation,
catchment area treatment, fisheries, wildlife and archaeology in the upstream part of the project,
and groundwater modeling and drainage in the first phase command area up to Mahi'4. However,
these efforts were not directed in a coherent manner towards the preparation of a detailed EA as
requested in Table 1 of the SAR. As a result, there exists at present a provisional EA prepared
with the assistance of consultants as part of the benchmarks that were to be met by March 31,
1993. However, the final detailed EA is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
7.10  In 1987, the Bank commissioned an Overview of the environmental aspects of the project,
leading to a report and recommendations published in 1989 Is. The Bank's Consultant recommen-
ded, in particular, that the Bank intensify its supervision and enter into supplemental agreements to
strengthen the environmental aspects of the project. The report also stressed the need to better
define the usable groundwater resources, determine the recharge quantities, develop techniques to
successfully manage water table levels (to mitigate the potential impacts of surface water irrigation
including the effects of water logging), and sharpen the policies for conjunctive use.
7.11  Bank supervision missions concentrated their reviews on upstream and downstream
impacts, and also on the waterlogging, salinity and drainage problems in the command area. They
repeatedly stressed the need to recruit technical assistance in the environmental field and to
strengthen the NCA. The missions also noted that the lack of an environmental work plan was
hampering the monitoring of environmental studies. Initially, little attention was paid to health
impacts or to environmental training programs. In these two areas, the Bank missions relied
heavily on the reports of the Borrower. It was only at the end of the project that the Bank engaged
a malaria specialist, who concluded that this component had not been treated adequately and made
recommendations to correct the problem.
7.12 In response to project critics, the Bank staff answered a large volume of queries from
NGOs as well as from member-countries through the Bank's EDs. The Staff also organized
regular briefing meetings with the Bank's EDs and participated in a number of hearings in the US
and abroad to give an account of the situation. Despite such efforts, pressure mounted. Finally in
1991, the Bank commissioned an Independent Review of the project, directing an Independent
Review team to provide an objective account of project implementation in the R&R, environmental
and health fields.
The Indendent Review
7.13 The Independent Review team, headed by Mr. Bradford Morse, ex-Administrator of the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP), initiated its field work in September 1991 and
submitted its report in June 1992. With regard to the Water Delivery and Drainage project, the
Review Team's report made a number of points. First, it noted that by the time of the review,
most of the Bank's 1985 legal requirements and most of the conditions attached to MOEF's 1987
14    [bese studies with their date of publication ae listed in the Sadw Savw PFoject Environmetal
Overview and Priondzed Action Plan ppaed by the Narnada Control AntAidty with the uasiae of
Environmental Resoumes Limrited, Marc 1993.
15    Overview Evironmental Aswessment Serdar Sovwr and Nsmna Sagw Pojcts, Nams River Basin
India by a Consultant to the World Bank 1919.



22
environmental clearance had not been met. This situation was unacceptable by any standards, and
existed despite the fact that by late 1988, all required agreements had been reached between the
GOI, the States, the implementing agencies including NCA, and the Bank to ensure that an
adequat assessment of the environmental impact of the Sardar Sarovar Projects would be made by
1989. Second, the report criticized the "pari pasu" approach, on grounds that it subverted any
acceptable notion of environmental planning and defeated the purpose of preparing environmental
assessments, namely, to anticipate negative impacts and prevent them by incorporating remedial
measures in the project design. Third, with respect to technical studies made under the project, the
report noted that several good studies had been prepared by consultants worling on the first reach
of the main canal up to the Mahi River - but that pre-feasibility studies beyond the Mahi indicated
that serious soil and water-logging problems will be encountered in the coastal Bhal areas, in the
north Gujarat areas as well as along the Saurashtra and Kutch branches. It also indicated that water-
logging, salinity and drainage problems had not yet been addressed through adequate drainage and
groundwater studies, as indicated by the Bank's own supervision mission reports. The report
added that though conjunctive use is proposed to be one of the most important mitigative measures
to counteract water logging in the command area, the detailed information needed (relating to water
quality, mixing regimes and private sector pumping) was not yet available. Fourth, the team
concluded that some good work had been done on specific topics in Phase I of the command area,
but that it fell short of the requirements of a good environmental assessment. Finally, the report
expected this project to replicate the deficiencies of previous projects in India.
7.14  On health aspects, the report stated that at the time of the project appraisal, the dangers of
water-borne diseases in irrigation projects were well known and documented, particularly those
related to malaria and schistosomiasis. The report quotes a status report on malaria and other
health-related aspects prepared by the Bank's consultant in January 1992, stating that the project
had been planned, designed and executed without incorporation of health safeguards and that the
incidence of malaria in villages near the dam site was nearly double that of the other villages served
by the health center in that area The report concludes that the Bank and the state governments had
failed to adequately address the issue of public health.
Management's and Borrower's Response
7.15 On June 23, 1992 the Bank issued a Management Response to the Independent Review
Repor. The Management agreed with the Independent Review report on the description of the
delays in completing the mandated environmental studies, and on the need for a more effective
central management and coordination function in the Narmada Basin on environmental impact
studies and mitigation programs. The Management also agreed on the need to accelerate work on
health matters in Gujarat. However, there were major points of disagreement as well. The
Management did not share the conclusions about the severe environmental consequences of the
study delays. In particular, the Management noted that the pari-pasu approach to environmental
assessment was adequate in view of the long gestation period of the project and the difficulty of
assessing impacts that will develop over time. The Management believed that, with adequate
environmental monitoring systems, most impacts would be identified and mitigated long before
reaching significant dimensions. Bank staff also rejected the idea that black cotton soils would
inevitably lead to water logging and salinity, and noted that the Independent Review team appeared
to be unaware that water logging problems had been tackled successfully in the neighboring Mahi
command area. As for the saline soils of regions 3, 7, 10, 11 and 12, Bank staff believed that
these could be developed adequately through leaching and drainage, and if the more detailed
surveys revealed particular problem areas, that these areas could still be omitted. On health
aspects, Bank staff argued that there was still adequate time to deal with health aspects before
irrigation began.
7.16 Thereafter, the Bank mounted a major mission in July 1992 to review the status of
implementation and compliance with the Bank's Legal Agreements, in light of the Independent



23
Review findings. The mission reported that the Borrower had completed 22 environmental
studies prior to the MOEF environmental clearance in 1987, that 11 had been completed since then,
and that 15 more were underway or proposed. The mission concluded that the study delays had
not caused severe environmental consequences to date. Nevertheless, the mission provided terms
of reference and recommended that a detailed Environmental Management Plan be produced as
soon as possible. It also noted that the SSNNL was embarling on an Environmental Impact
Assessment for the command area, in accordance with Bank current guidelines, in view of a
possible Phase II Canal project. On health aspects, the mission noted that the Government of
Gujarat had accepted the findings and recommendations of the January 1992 mission, which
included setting up a Health Planning and Monitoring Cell in SSNNL, preparing an environmental
health management plan, and setting up an anti-malaria unit at the dam site (Kevadia), to be
followed by others in the command area later.
7.17 The Borrower, in a letter of September 1, 1992, ensured the Bank it would address with
urgency the concerns raised by the Independent Review and Bank missions, and that management
and organizational weaknesses in the R&R program would be corrected. The attachment to the
letter indicated that a comprehensive environmental action plan had been prepared and was
currently under review by NCA. Also attached was a bar chart showing a list of environmental
studies completed, ongoing and proposed. However, the preparation of an EA specifically for the
command area was not mentioned at that stage.
ne Benchmarks
7.18 The Management Response, the mission's findings, and the Borrower's action plan were
presented to the Board, together with three options for action, in a document entitled Review of
Current Status and Next Steps. On October 23, 1992 the Board discussed this document and
agreed with the analysis of the Independent Review, which had identified a number of deficiencies
in the Bank's appraisal and the Borrower's implementation of the projects. The Board also agreed
to Management's third option of continuing to support the projects, subject to the Borrower's
compliance with a series of benchmarks by March 31, 1993. Though the Water Delivery and
Drainage project had been closed since July 1, 1992, the Board fixed three benchmarks relating to
the environmental aspects of this project: (i) completion of a prioritized environmental overiew
report for the Sardar Sarovar Projects; (ii) satisfactory progress in completing an Environmental
Impact Assessment for the Gujarat command area; and (iii) adequate implementation of Gujamt's
malaria control program at the SSP project site, in line with the specific recommendations of the
July 1992 Bank mission. The Board also requested that a special review mission visit India during
April 1993 to assess progress in implementing the agreed action plan, and indicated that
continuation of the Bank's support after April 1993 would depend on meeting the agreed
benchmarks.
7.19 The Overseas Development Agency (ODA) of UK then opened a Trust Fund with the Bank
of  1.0 million to assist the Borrower in meeting the benchmarks. Two consulting firms were
recruited by the Bank and completed their work by mid-March 1993. On March 29, 1993, the
GOI requested the Bank to cancel the remaining portion of the Dam and Power Loan, thus
terminating the Bank's lending for the Sardar Sarovar Projects. By that time, the Bank consultants
had completed their field work and submitted the major part of their draft reports to NCA.
However, NCA did not send the Bank its final response to the benchmarks until August 5, 1993.
After reviewing this document, the Bank was satisfied that the Borrower had met all three
benchmarks. Shordy after, NCA requested and the Bank agrmed to extend the completion date for
the command area EA to December 31, 1994 as several important studies remained to be carried
out with regard to groundwater modelling, water logging, secondary salinization, conjunctive use,
and quantity and quality of agricultural drainage water.



24
Major Imnpacts and Mitigating Measures
7.20 The project will provide irrigation water to about 5 million direct beneficiaries, as well as
domestic and industrial water to about 30 million people in the most drought-prone areas of Guja-
rat. Water supply and agricultural intensification is expected to have an overall positive impact by
reducing the effects of drought on the command area and on the health of the rural populations.
The enhanced agricultural production will also generate employment opportunities and thereby
reduce population encroachment on sensitive and critical areas. Larger quantities of fodder derived
from crop residues will reduce over-grazing. rree plantings along canals, roads and farrns will
improve the permanent vegetative cover and reduce wind erosion, while the construction of a
drainage system will somewhat reduce sheet and gully erosion during heavy monsoon downpours.
However, the project will also have some negative impacts on water quality, soils, groundwater,
forest and other aspects which will need to be mitigated in ways described below.
7.21 Health. The advent of irrigation and improved access to domestic water supplies can yield
substantial public health benefits, particularly by reducing the incidence of diseases such as
dysentery and diarrhoea that are related to poor hygiene, poor sanitation and lack of drinling
water. However, there are health risks as well, because without proper control, the transport and
storage of water can lead to increased incidence of water-related diseases such as malaria, filaria
and schistosomiasis. These aspects have been reviewed in a number of studies carried out between
1986 and 1992 (see list in Annex 2). The overall conclusion is that schistosomiasis is confined to
one location outside of the command area, while filaria is confined primarily to the coastal areas.
Therefore, these two diseases do not appear to be a threat in the project area.
7.22  However, several studies have identfied malaria and Japanese encephalitis as the greatest
potential health threat in the project area. Though the incidence of these diseases is already
relatively high in Gujarat, special measures will be required to control their spread. To that end,
the Borrower has informed the Bank that the Gujarat Health Department has prepared an Action
Plan for surveillance and control of malaria, encompassing the creation of additional anti-malaria
units at district level, the appointment of additional staff, and an increase in spray operations. In
addition to these measures, sound engineering practices will be needed to limit canal seepage,
water logging, and pools of all kinds. In view of Gujarat's relatively poor track record in these
fields, the incidence of water-related diseases, particularly malaria, will have to be closely
monitored. As the command area will not receive water before 1995, at the earliest, there is still
time for Gujarat to implement the measures required and to establish an efficient monitoring
system.
7.23 Water Quality. Water quality in the Narmada River is good (200 mg/l to 400 mg/l TDS).
However, the rivers flowing through the command area such as the Dhardhar, Mahi and
Sabarmati, tend to be polluted by agriculture, urban and industrial waste. This is so in their down-
stream reaches, and during the dry season when flows are reduced due to upstrearn uses. The
quality of groundwater varies substantially from reasonable (1,000 mgfl TDS) in the southem part
of the command area near Vadodara, to bad -- with salinity levels increasing towards the north-
west and towards the coats (3,000 mg/l to 30,000 mg/l TDS). The use of agricultural inputs such
as fertilizers and pesticides is not expected to have a significant impact in view of the type of
extensive irrigation which will be practiced, except in the northern arid areas where natural leaching
will be limited.
7.24 The impact of irigation and drainage on water quality in the rivers traversing the command
area will be negligible during the rainy season, and may even have beneficial effects during the dry
season through the increase of return flows. However, the major impact of irrigation on water
quality will be in those areas where irrigation will be used to leach saline soils and where surface
water will be mixed with groundwater to mitigate salinity. In those areas, particularly near the
coast and towards the Rajasthan border, special measures will be required to dispose of drainage



25
water and to ensure that salinity is not transferred to other locations within or outside the command
area, as in the case of the Rann of Kutch.
7.25 The Borrower is aware of these anticipated impacts. Consequently, surface water quality is
being monitored on a regular basis by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board, and groundwater
quality by the Gujarat Water Resources Development Corporation. Additional studies are currently
underway with the assistance of Bank consultants, to determine the levels of salinity resulting from
irrigation in various parts of the command area. Procedures for conjunctive use and water quality
control are yet to be spelled out and integrated in project design.
Soils and Salini
7.26 The upper reaches of the command area up to Mahi generally have heavy black clay soils,
which have excellent potential for agricultural production and respond well to irrigation with certain
precautions. The soils of the Saurashtra Branch are lighter, their suitability for irrigation is
demonstrated by the fact that most of the land is already dry farmed, and some areas have been
irrigated for many years. The soils of the northern part of the main canal and of the Kutch Branch
(Regions 10, 11, and 12) are more problematic and often affected by salinity. Nevertheless, these
soils have been developed wherever irrigation water was available and have been able to produce
salt-tolerant crops such as wheat, cotton, sorghum and maize, as well as special crops like cumin
with adequate leaching from irrigation water. The soils most affected by salt are located in the low
lands and along the coastal line of the Gulfs of Khambat and Kutch (Regions 3 and 7). The
productivity of these soils is marginal, and their development will require substantial drainage
works.
7.27 The Borrower has carried out detailed soil surveys up to Mahi (Phase I, about 450,000 ha),
and a rapid reconnaissance soil survey for the rest of the area. An integrated review of soils
studies is being carried out by a leading soil scientist to determine more precisely the critical areas
and mitigating measures needed. Should water availability become a limiting factor, the best
solution would be to limit some of the areas affected by saline soils in Regions 3,7,10,11, and 12.
Groundwater and Waterlogging
7.28 The aquifer system underlying most of the Command Area, except for Regions 8,9 and a
large part of Region 1, consists of a layered complex of alluvial sands and clays. Over much of the
area, the alluvium is more than 100 m thick Broadly, the system may be said to comprise an upper
phreatic aquifer overlying a lower confined aquifer, with the clay that separates the two aquifers
becoming progressively less permeable towards the northwest. Yields of shallow wells tapping
the alluvial aquifer are reported to range up to 15 liters per second while yields from tubewells
tapping the confined aquifer range up to 30 liters per second or more. Gross abstraction for water
supply and irrigation in the command area is estimated by the Gujarat Water Resource
Development Corporation to have totalled 2,100 Mm3 in 1991. Sections of the command area
where the water table rises within 5 m of the ground surface are at present rare, and are found
mainly in lower lying tracts adjacent to the sea and to the Rann of Kutch. In addition, there is also
some surface waterlogging in inland areas where heavy clay soils occur. The major impact of
irrigation on groundwater will be a substantial increase in recharge of about 1,600 Mm3 per year
(75%), and a resulting rise of the water table in critical areas.
7.29 To examine project impact on groundwater, the Borrower has developed four mathematical
models. Although there are some inconsistencies with regard to input parameters and border
conditions, the models do provide reasonable indications of which areas are potentially vulnerable
to waterlogging and where pumped drainage may be required in the future. With the help of Bank
consultants, the Borrower is now establishing an overall groundwater model which will determine
with improved accuracy both the groundwater availability and the boundaries of critical areas in



26
which pumping will be required to control water levels through vertical drainage. A drainage
specialist will also be employed to review current plans for surface and subsurface drainage.
Forest. Flora and Fauna
7.30 The total forested area directly affected by canal alignments is unlikely to exceed 100 ha,
according to SSNNL estimates, the planned afforestation program far exceeds this figure. Because
the affected forest area is so small, no baseline studies have been produced. However, the
Forestry Department has sufficient information on species and related forestry issues to carry out
such a study, determine the exact project impact, and recommend appropriate remedial measures.
SSNNL, in conjunction with the Forestry Department, should now fill this gap by preparing a
study of forest areas directly and indirectly affected by the advent of irrigation. This study should
be based on a "land-cover/land-use map" showing the forest areas, the canal alignments, and the
command areas, among other things.
7.31 Two designated wildlife reserves lie within the Command Area: the Nal Sarovar Bird
Sanctuary and the Velavadar Black Buck Sanctuary. The adjacent Little Rann of Kutch has been
designated a Wild Ass Sanctuary, and the Great Rann the Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary. The
adjacent Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary in the Great Rann also holds wild ass, but is particularly
noted as the breeding site (Pacham Island) of perhaps one-half the world's population of Greater
Flamingo. The now rare Great Indian Bustard is reported to inhabit the plains of Kutch, where
compensatory afforestation has created a suitable habitat for this bird, and Saurashtra which is
outside the Command Area. During the winter months there is a wide diversity of bird life in the
command area, particularly in irrigated fields (especially paddy rice) and other small water bodies.
This type of habitat will be expanded by the projecL
7.32 The major impact of irrigation on flora and fauna is the possible restriction of animal
movements due to canal and drain alignments. This concem is relevant to the Wild Ass Sanctuary,
where the Kutch Branch Canal crosses the passage between the two Ranns, and to the Velavadar
Sanctuary which will be traversed by canal systems served by the Vallabhipur Branch.
Consideration may be needed for providing crossing points or changing the alignment of canals
and drains where feasible. Fertilizers and pesticides are unlikely to increase pollution by
agricultural runoff and drainage, but this topic is the subject of a separate study. Also requiring
careful consideration is the proposal to link Nal Sarovar to the irrigation system to allow it to be
used as a storage pond. However, the ability to provide permanent water over a limited area
throughout the year could be beneficial to the reserve.
7.33 Four studies relating specifically to the command area have been prepared: a general study
of the Command Area as a whole (which also includes floristic aspects of the sanctuaries), and
detailed studies on the Nal Sarovar, Velvadar and Wild Ass Sanctuaries. The studies are required
to determine the baseline situation, possible impacts, mitigation measures if required, and plans for
monitoring and management. A detailed study now needs to be made of the existing runoff and
drainage systems over the Nal Sarovar catchment. Monitoring of the quality of the water in and
draining to the lake should be started as soon as possible to determine the baseline situation, and
also to detect possible impacts from adjacent ongoing irrigated and rainfed agriculture. The design
of the proposed surface drainage network for the region should also be advanced to the point at
which its impact on the pattern of drainage into and out of Nal Sarovar can be determined and
modified if necessary. Information on water quality from other studies must also be provided to
the agencies and groups that are doing the various flora and fauna studies.



27
8.   Canal-Affected Families
Backgrnd
8.1   At project inception, there was little data regarding the number of families to be affected by
the canals and other infrastructure of the project, or any assessment of the exact manner in which
such families would be affected by the projecL As the NWDT had made no reference to canal-
affected families (CAFs), the Borrower considered that the CAFs in this project would be treated
similarly to those in previous Indian infrastructure projects. The usual practice consisted in
compensating those affected by the construction of canal systems in accordance with the
procedures of the Land Acquisition Act of 1894, as amended in 1984. The Borrower assumed that
cash compensation provided under the Act would be sufficient for CAFs. The Bank's OMS 2.33
of February 1980 specified that the Bank's policy on R&R applied to canals (para. 3, sub-parae),
and that the number of affected people, the adequacy of land acquisition and compensation
procedures, and the preparation of a resettlement plan agreed with the Borrower through
negotiations (para. 26), were all part of the project cycle. As neither the SAR nor the Legal
Documents of the Water Delivery and Drainage project made any special provision for the treatment
of CAFs, Bank staff also assumed that the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act of 1894 for
compensating CAFs were adequate.
8.2   During implementation, it became clear that in many cases the compensation paid to CAFs
did not fully cover the cost of buying new land, nor did it include an adequate value for the fixed
assets required to develop replacement land and regain the previous standard of living. Although
there was a legal appeal procedure for redressing inadequate compensation, with lawyers often
moving into villages ahead of the survey teams, it became clear that the Land Acquisition Act was
inadequate for the proper R&R of CAFs and that a new policy would have to be developed.
Implementation
8.3    As a result of NGOs' increasing criticism of R&R implementation in the Sardar Sarovar
submergence area, a Bank supervision mission raised, for the first time in December 1989 the
issue of adequate R&R planning and compensation of CAFs in the command area This mission
recommended that a survey be carried out to determine the socio-economic impacts of land
acquisition on CAFs and examine the need for related R&R measures. From that moment onwards
an awareness was created and GOG hired an Indian management institute in 1991 to assess the
number of CAFs and their needs. The institution's report gave what appeared to be an excessive
figure of 222,786 persons affected and made a number of recommendations for establishing an
R&R policy that went far beyond the GOG's intentions. As a result, GOG did not publish the
study and proceeded to explore the issue on its own.
8.4   Since then, the impact of canal construction has been estimated with greater accuracy by
GOG and the Bank. According to present estimates, about 170,000 persons will be affected and
the area to be acquired will be about 73,910 ha (about 4% of the 1.87 million ha of the command
area). This.figure is likely to further increase when the land required for drains, roads, quarries
and other such needs is taken into consideration. These figures may be compared with the 37,590
ha of land that will be submerged by the Sardar Sarovar Dam and the 127,500 persons to be
affected by it. Based on present surveys, it is estimated that about 24,000 CAFs (or 15% of the
total number) will be losing more than 25% of their land. More accurate figures are expected when
GOG publishes the results of a socio-economic survey which was completed in July 1994.
8.5   The studies of CAFs carried out so far have stressed the difference between the persons
affected by the Sardar Sarovar Dam and those affected by the construction of the canal system. In
the first case, relocated families lose all their land and are often resettled in a totally different
habitat They must be provided with a rehabilitation package th enabls them to regain a standard



28
of living at least equal to that enjoyed before the move. In contrast, the majority of CAFs remain in
their usual habitat and their land receives the benefits of irrigation. As a consequence, GOG has
long resisted giving special benefits to such families, apart from paying them under the Land
Acquisition Act for lost property. However, in light of the socio-economic studies and outside
pressure, GOG has now revised this position, recognizing that CAFs can be affected not only by
the loss of land but also by the disruption created by the division of their holdings into one or more
uneconomical parcels. Often, land holdings are not viable even though they are of adequate size,
because some parts of the holding are on the other side of the canal and not easily accessible.
'Me Indepndent Review
8.6  In addition to analyzing general environmental and R&R aspects of SSP, the Independent
Review also addressed the issue of CAFs. It criticized the Bank for failing to adequately address
the displacement of CAFs during appraisal and to introduce provisions for CAFs in the legal
documents. It also was critical of the incremental approach followed by the Bank for not yielding
the expected results in a timely manner. GOG was criticized for not having prepared a reliable
database and for not adequately compensating and rehabilitating the CAFs.
The Bank's and the Borrower's Response
8.7   The Bank's Management response acknowledged that adequate resettlement plans had not
been prepared by the Borrower or appraised by the Bank under the project Management also
agreed that the strategy for incremental progress had, on balance, yielded results too slowly. The
Bank's major mission of July 1992 reviewed the status of R&R implementation and proposed a
number of actions to be taken by the Borrower in light of the Independent Review report and the
prevailing situation. The mission's findings and the Bank's Management response were discussed
by the Bank's Board during their meeting of October 23, 1992. The Board agreed with the
Management's assessment and established 19 benchmarks relating to R&R. including one that
addressed the CAF issue specifically. The Board requested that by March 31, ' )3, GOG should:
(i) conduct a socioeconomic survey of CAFs and formulate a final policy packa, , (ii) identify the
CAFs who had been made landless, marginal farmers, and those who had lost more than 25% of
their land, and (iii) announce an interim policy for small and marginal farmers whose land had
already been acquired. Though these benchmarks were established after the closure of the Water
Delivery and Drainage project, the extent of compliance with them would have an effect on the
Dam and Power project which was still continuing at that time.
8.8  In September 1992, shortly after the return of the Bank review mission, GOG produced a
document in which the number of CAFs was reassessed at 169,500 (excluding those affected by
drains, roads, quarries, etc.), of whom only 24,000 would be losing more than 25% of their land
(with most of these actually benefitting from the irrigation). At the same time, GOG issued an
interim R&R policy for CAFs stipulating that: (i) compensation for land lost would be based on
market value determined by Land Purchase Committees, and (ii) CAFs who had lost more than
50% of their land and were left with less than 1.0 ha in the command area would be allocated 0.5
ha in addition to compensation.
Current Status
8.9   On March 29, 1993, the GOI requested the Bank to cancel the remaining portion of the
Dam and Power Loan. By that time, the Bank had determined that, while most of the benchmarks
would be met, the socio-economic survey of CAFs would not be completed. At the time of this
PCR, NCA reported that the socio-economic survey of CAFs had been completed and that a
comprehensive report, including a proposal for a final CAF R&R policy would be submitted
shortly. According to the latest NCA estimates, about 68,000 persons have so far been affected by
the construction of canals. Until the results of the socio-economic survey are published, it is



29
difficult to say precisely how these families have been affected. However, it can be presumed that
a large number of CAFs have filed court petitions for additional compensation. Because only a
few such court cases are likely to be resolved before a final policy on CAFs is issued, the
remaining CAFs probably have not yet regained living standards equal to those before land
acquisition. The 15% of CAFs who lost more than 25% of their land are the most adversely
affected. This situation is provisional and is likely to improve as soon as the policy is issued, and
to improve still further when irrigation is ultimately provided. In some cases, the lag time before
receiving irrigation will be less than five years, but in other cases it may be more than ten years.
8.10 The experience gained under this and other projects suggests that the final policy should
consider the acquisition of land by consent award based on market price, together with the
allocation of an ex-gratia amount for the purchase of replacement land by the CAFs The ex-gratia
amount is required because the land value is bound to increase with the advent of irrigation. It can
be deposited in a managed account so that it becomes available to the CAF only when it has
identified the replacement land. This procedure is recommended because it avoids litigation and
provides the CAFs with the financial resources required for purchasing replacement land. It also
relieves the Borrower of the burden of finding and allocating replacement land on behalf of the
CAFs.
8.11 One other aspect that should be explored in developing the final CAF policy is the
possibility of reducing the impact of land acquisition through a system of land consolidation.
With land consolidation, aD beneficiaries contribute a smal percentage of their land toward the area
required for the acquisition of rights of way. There would be no need for payment of
compensation or provision of replacement land. In addition, the process would allow farm
boundaries to be realigned to give each holding access to a canal for irrigation, a drain for disposal
of excess water, and a farm road for transporL Land consolidation provides the optimum layout at
the minimum infrastructure cost. The main drawback is the time usualy required for updating the
land records and redistributing the land. Farners also initially tend to resist this operation, but
with appropriate incentives, they can be convinced of the benefits of having a farm properly laid
out with direct access to irrigation, drainage and roads. Land consolidation has been implemented
on a large scale in Punjab and Haryana, and in Orissa more recently. It has also been used
systematically for the development of modem irrigation schemes in North and West Africa and
Thailand.
9.   Project Achievements
9.1   Project achievements are shown in Part m, Table 4. Overall, the achievements of this
project were good in some components, and average to less than satisfactory in others. With
regard to the construction of the main canal up to Mahi River (144 kIm), the project achieved
practically all of its objectives and also set high quality standards for machine- placed concrete
lining. With regard to the construction of seven major cross drainage structures, overall
performance was much below expectations with about 35% achievement of objectives, due to the
delays and poor performance of one contractor. For the Mabi and Orsang Aqueducts, the contracts
were awarded late in March 1991 but works progressed well right from the start However, for
four other hydraulic structures, though the contract was awarded prompdy in October 1989, the
contractor did not perform satisfactorily and the Nigam had to retender the works. Performance
was also below expectations on the construction of branch canals, where about 60% of the
appraisal targets were met.
9.2   The most severe lag occurred in the construction of the 12 irrigation and drainage
development blocks (96,900 ha). The SAR had anticipated that 45% of the distribution network
and 25% of the village level service areas of these blocks would be completed. However, no
construction had started by the time the Credit was closed. This was due, &a,. to delays in
fmalizing the designs, even though the Nigam had engaged 23 local consultants for that purpose;



30
segond to the time taken by an independent consultant to rectify design deficiencies in the
rotational water supply (RWS) to which the consultants were not accustomed; and, ihd, to the
rejection of the local competitive bids due to what the Nigam considered excessive cost. The
positive aspect was that the Nigam was able to complete the layout, planning and designs of macro
and micro distribution networks in line with SAR standards. However, the negative aspect is that
the Nigam may not be able to maintain high quality standards for the construction of the irrigation
and drainage blocks if technical specifications are changed to obtain lower costs.16
9.3   Regarding the design, installation and commissioning of a remote control and monitoring
system for canal operation down to the 8.5 m3/sec level, the Borrower finalized the terms of
reference and invited bids, but could not appoint the consultants for lack of time. The Narmada
Planning Group has also prepared a 3-volume Plan of Operation and Maintenance for the canal
system and headworks, which is periodically revised and updated.
9.4   Even though the project failed to accomplish all of its objectives by the extended Credit
Closing Date, it achieved many positive results and set new standards in India, particularly in the
fields of engineering and construction management:
a.    Machine-placed concrete lining on the main canal and branch canals, supported with
full mechanization of back-up operations, has been successfully introduced for the
first time in India. This innovation resulted in a high level of construction quality as
well as accelerated progress, and is now being used as a model for other irrigation
projects in India. In addition, technology transfer was successfully implemented
through the introduction of PVC insertion in both the longitudinal and transverse
contraction joints of canal lining, and use of membrane-forming curing compound
to enhance progress and quality.
b.    Technical specifications of works were upgraded; improvements were made in the
designs of hydraulic structures; O&M features were incorporated at the design
stage; improved technical specifications on construction planning, use of
construcion equipment, and definition of milestones were introduced in the bidding
documents. The Nigam made and continues to make optimum use of the Board of
Consultants for timely resolution of design, construction and O&M problems.
c.    The designs of the main canal complex (including concrete structures, hydraulic
structures, and mechanical installations) as well as the branch canal complex were
centralized under one head through the posting of an Engineer-in-Chief for Designs
in the Central Designs Organization. This arrangement was especially helpful for
introducing improved design and drawing standards, and for adjusting design
standards to facilitate O&M and structural safety. In addition, it also helped in
standardizing sizes and capacities of gates to facilitate the inter-changeability of
parts and accessories. Another notable achievement was the production of
comprehensive and high-quality technical memos by the Nigam's Central Designs
Organization, based on the BOCs recommendations, with regard to a wide variety
of issues including investigations, planning, materials, studies, designs,
constrction, operation and maintenance.
d.    The Nigam has prepared consolidated guidelines on the planning, design and layout
of distribution networks folowing the basic principles of RWS. The Central
Designs Organization has also developed and made use of computer-aided design
16    Mh Boonower feels that the rejection of bids due to high cost does not affect the quality nd that if
specifications w changed these would remain within the project equirements.



31
systems for preparing standard designs of escapes, head regulators, cross
regulators, cross regulators cum falls, syphons, drainage culverts, road and
bridges. In addition, a stability analysis of splaywaaUs and retaining walls, transient
studies, simulation models, and cement and steel requirements for multi-barrel
cross drainage structures have been computerized.
e.    An excellent computer-based management information system (MIS) has been
established by the Nigam, through the operation of 15 computer centers for both the
Water Delivery and Drainage Project and the Dam & Power Project. The MIS
makes it possible to obtain tabular and graphical displays as well as printouts of
physical and financial progress of all works in progress. Besides the preparation of
an overall SSP construction schedule and detailed implementation schedules for
respective project components, the MIS has also introduced procurement and
contract implementation schedules which are updated every month. Most
importantly, the MIS allows feedback on critical points that require specific actions
by the construction staff as well as the contractors. The MIS has proved useful and
has had a significant impact on project performance since it became operational in
1991. It enabled the Nigam engineers at all levels to focus attention on any
shortfalls, deficiencies and bottlenecks in project implementation. More activities
including finance, administration and R&R are being brought within the framework
of MIS.
f.    Te Nigam-appointed Experts Committee on Cement and Concrete (ECCC) made a
valuable contribution in all aspects of quality control and quality assurance on the
project, including the on-job training and training in the National Council for
Cement and Building Materials (NCCB) laboratories near Delhi. Based on the
guidelines framed by ECCC, the NCCB prepared a comprehensive document
entitled, 'Guidelines for Management of Quality Control and Quality Assurance
System for Concrete in Sardar Sarovar Project." This is an excellent document and
can serve as a model for use on other irrigation and power projects in India. The
management of Nathpa Jhakri Power Project (Loan 3024-IN) has already taken
action to base its QC/QA set-up on this document.
9.5 Barring funding constraints, the project has now progressed to a stage where all works left
unfinished on July 1, 1992 could possibly be completed by June 1996. To achieve this result, the
Borrower should now prioritize the completion of the conveyance and distribution systems in the
initial seven blocks (CCA 52,600 ha) up to Orsang Aqueduct (km 49 of main canal). This would
allow the supply of irrigation water through the completed canal head powerhouse when the dam is
expected to reach elevation 112.50 m by June 1995 if no further delays occur due to R&R
implementation. The Nigam should also strengthen its Command Area Development Wing and
improve co-ordination with the Water and Land Management Institute to train the motivators
required to establish about 100 water users associations in the initial 50,000 ha by July 1996.
However, a major commitment on the part of the Command Area Development Wing will be
needed to get this done.
Project Benefits and Revised Economic Analys
9.6 The project is still in its initial construction stage and no components have yet been put into
operation. At full development, with current project objectives and scope, nearly 5 million people
will benefit directly from the irrigation of about 1.87 M ha, and about 30 million people from the
D,M&I componenL The appraisal team considered the cropping pattern proposed by NPG too
conservative and therefore modified it to introduce more cash crops and a higher irrigation intensity
(106%). The main crops under the SAR cropping pattern are wheat 22.3%, cotton 24.4%,
sorghum 13.0%, paddy 10.9%, groundnut 7.4%, pulses 5.2% and other crops such as tobacco,



32
vegetables (potatoes and onions), oilseeds (mustard and castor), bananas, fodder, chilies and
sugarcane, the latter being minimal with only 0.5%. This cropping pattern appears realistic and
expected yields of irrigated crops have been reasonably estimated at paddy 4.0 tons per hectare
(tlha), wheat 3.5 tlha, cotton 2.4 t/ha and sorghum (rabi) 3.1 tlha. The annual food grain
production is expected to increase by about 2.5 million tons within 25 years. It should be noted
that this rather large increase represents only 1.3% of India's current annual food grain production
of about 188 millon tons, and less than one-half of the present annual incremental production of
about 2.5%.
9.7   The revised analysis, which was completed in April 1993 as part of the benchmarks set by
the Board, is based on the incremental agricultural benefits outlined above and the hydropower
benefits described in the Dam and Power Loan/Credit Completion Report (LJCCR). Adjustments
were made to the SAR economic analysis to take into account changes in quantities, prices and
phasing, since it was originally done in 1984. The base year of the analysis has been brought to
1992 prices. The revised analysis has paid particular attention to the environmental costs or
benefits which might have been under-estimated or omitted in the original analysis, such as estuary
changes, fisheres costs and benefits, fuelwood, wildlife, etc. The Economic Rate of Retum (ERR)
of the revised analysis is 12%. This is marginally lower than the 13% found in the original SAR
analysis, but falls within the range of acceptable ERRs for a project of this type. It represents a
large scale of benefits relative to any feasible altematives, and has substantial multiplier effects. It
should be noted that had the SSP been conceived as a power project alone, its ERR would have
been 14%. The command area, if analyzed by itself, shows a somewhat uneconomical ERR of
i 1% relative to the 12% Opportunity Cost of Capital for India; in fact, parts of the command area
would be lower than this. If expenditure to date is treated as a sunk cost, the ERR is 17%.
9.8   Because the project is an integral part of the larger SSP in Gujarat, the assessment of
benefits resulting from irrigation, D,M&I water supply and power generation would cover the SSP
in its entirety since all functions are interdependent through their joint reliance on the Sardar
Sarovar Reservoir. The benefits would accrue in stages over a 15 year period from 1995 to 2010,
upon phased completion of the dam, phased commissioning of respective units of canal head
powerhouse (CHPH) and riverbed powerhouse (RBPH), and phased completion of the water
delivery and drainage systems including the command area development, D,M&I water supply
schemes and upstream development. Irnigation and agricultural benefits are expected to begin in
July 1995, with the partial release of water from the Sardar Sarovar Dam through the canal head
powerhouse. Initially, not more than about 50,000 ha of distribution system is likely to be ready
to receive water for irrigation. Power benefits would also start flowing from July 1995 upon
commissioning of the first unit of CHPH and diversion of water to the main canal for irrigation
after generating power. However, as the Dam and Power IJCCR and this report have indicated,
there is a strong likelihood that dam and irrigation development will not be completed within the
economic analysis time frame because of slow R&R implementation in Maharashtra and MP, as
well as delays in finalizing the financing arrangement for the riverbed powerhouse turbine
generating sets and in the construction of the irrigation and drainage systems. Under these
circumstances, irrigation and power benefits may not start before July 1997. The sensitivity
analysis shows that a 5 year delay in the development of irrigation would reduce the ERR to 10%
and a 10 year delay to 9%.
9.9   Although one of the principal objectives of the project is to supply D,M&I water to about
30 million people in 135 urban centers and 8,215 rural villages, the Gujarat Water Supply and
Sewerage Board (GWSSB) and the State Industries Department have prepared only preliminary
plans. These plans are based on national norms and show the major offtake points along the main
and branch canals, the layout of the distribution systems and location of booster stations. At
present, there are no detailed plans or cost estimates for the Phase I of the project up to Mahi and,
although water supply will benefit particularly the drought-prone Saurashtra and Kutch areas,
water supply in those areas will be possible only after the branch canals of these areas are



33
completed in 1997 and 2002, respectively, under the most favorable circumstances. Because there
appears to be no realistic alternative to D, M&I water supply on the scale provided by the project, it
has therefore been difficult to put a value on this water component. The other options, such as
desalinization or out-migration and resettlement, are more theoretical than realistic. Consequently,
the benefits of DM&I water may still be substantially underestimated.
9.10 The revised economic analysis has been based on the SAR cropping pattem and water
requirements for a CCA of 1.79 M ha. However, as explained in the section on Hydrology and
Water Resources above, for various reasons the project as currently designed may exceed the
estimated water requirements by at least 20%. At full development, the project may need more
than the 9.0 MAF allocated by the NWDT. The question, therefore, arises as to whether some
adjustment should be made to the cropping pattern by giving more emphasis to kharif irrigated
crops or to the scope of the irrigation component or to more efficient water application methods
such as sprinkler and drip irrigation. In the initial years, enough water will be available to satisfy
the total SSP requirements, but this situation may not hold by year 2024 when the NWDT is to be
revised. However, it is also probable that water usage upstream will be lower than projected, and
therefore the NWDT award can be revised accordingly. Given the satisfactory flexibility permitted
by the multipurpose nature of this project, it would be wise to handle these uncertainties by 'under
shooting" initially on the size of the command area rather than "over shooting," and approach the
fal command area size gradually on the basis of emerging actual performance"'.
9.11 The economic analysis indicates that extensive irrigation yields a marginal ERR and there-
fore may not be the best economic solution. However, this approach was chosen deliberately at
the outset. Part of the Saurashtra branch and the whole of the Kutch branch were included largely
for social reasons. The economic analysis shows that the economic benefits resulting from power
generation are higher than those derived from irrigation, while the lack of any alternative suggests
that economic benefits derived from municipal and industrial water supply are likely to be more
substantial than initially anticipated. As the main canal and command area are still in their initial
stages of construction, it may be worthwhile to readjust the irrigation and water supply compo-
nents so that the project could become more profitable economically by reducing the command area
in the higher cost and/or lower benefit zones and giving more importance to the DM&I aspects of
the project,  It is reasonable to expect that the demand for D,M&I water will continue to increase
over time and the SSP could become a major water supply project. This is a world-wide trend. In
this context it would be prudent to consider reducing irrigation water requirements and eannarling
more water for the high value D,M&I needs. Various options are available:
a.    use less water demanding crops, by giving more importance to Kharif crops;
b.    improve water use efficiencies by promoting sprinkler and drip irrigation; and
c.    limit the command area to the most economically viable areas.
9.12 As suggested above, once further studies have refined some of the data, attention should be
turned towards how far to develop the final phases of the command area. At that point, an updated
economic analysis should be made on the basis of the refined studies that are currently underway.
These include the revised operational studies, the groundwater modeling, the drainage water
17    See following footnote.
18    lbe Borrower emphasizes that the question of reducing the command ae in the higher costlower
benefit zones does not arisc since the objective is to make adequate water available to the drought prone
reas.



34
quality and quantity studies, the downstream water requirements, and the detailed Environmental
Impact Assessment which is expected to be completed by December 1994.
10.  Project Sustainability
10.1 Because the construction standards were good to excellent during project implementation
the irrigation infrastructure created so far is expected to provide reliable service and ensure a
productive life for the project. Government officials are committed to maintaining the present
construction standards for the major canal and structures. However, funding constraints after the
closure of the Credit, as exemplifid by the rejection of construction bids for the irrigation and
drainage blocks on account of high cost, may lead to lower construction standards. If the quality
of existing infrastructure is maintained, the sustainability of the project appears to be guaranteed for
the next 40 to 50 years. However, the ultimate sustainability of the project will, of course, depend
on the adequacy of its operation and maintenance for which India, as many other developing
countries, does not have a good track recordl9. It is believed that the exceptional nature of this
project and the standard of excellence developed by the SSNNL staff will enable new trends to be
set for O&M.
10.2 At Credit closure, SSNNL had established a core O&M wing. Moreover, its 3-Volume
Plan of Operation and Maintenance provides a good assessment of O&M services and budgeting
requirements, based on the enhanced funding norms sanctioned through GOG Resolution of
December 20, 1988. SSNNL has also determined the procedures for filling the canal system,
which are critical to its longevity. On this matter, SSNNL should follow the Bank's
recommendation not to close the main, branch and distributory canals annually, as initially
contemplated, because such action would inevitably accelerate the deterioration of the linings of the
larger canals. For the macro-distribution system, SSNNL has until July 1995 - when water is
expected to be released for the first time - to strengthen its O&M wing by providing adequate staff,
equipment, funds and training. An Action Plan to this effect is under preparation. For the micro-
distribution networks, SSNNL intends to transfer the O&M responsibilities to water users
associations and there is every reason to believe that these associations, acting in their own interest,
will keep the irrigation and drainage systems in good operation and repair. However, to achieve
this result and in view of the proposed diversion of water in July 1995 WALMI and CAD staff
must give more emphasis to motivating and training the farmers who will have to establish the 100
WUAs required for the first 50,000 ha to be inigated. This will be a daunting task
10.3 The detailed Environmental Impact Assessment, which is currently underway with the
assistance of international consultants, will enable the Borrower to further improve the
environmental sustainability of the project. Experience shows that irrigation schemes in India are
never allowed to degrade to the point of becoming unproductive. Waterlogging and salinity has
affected parts of some systems and reduced productivity, but remedial measures have usually been
taken (as in the case of the adjoining Mahi command). The implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan, to which the Borrower is committed, should prevent even the partial
degradation which is observed in some other projects.
10.4 Though much more needs to be done on health issues, the Borrower has agreed with the
recommendations of the July 1992 Bank mission. These require strengthening existing health
services and opening new anti-malaria units, first, near the Sardar Sarovar Dam site and,
thereafter, in the command area. The Environmental Overview prepared by the Borrower, with the
assistance of intemational consultants, states that the increased availability of fresh water supply in
the drought prone-project area is likely to have a positive net impact on the health of its inhabitants.
19    The BoIOwer does not believe O&M may be affected by fuDding constraints and disagres that India has
a poor O&M track record.



35
10.5 Financial sustainability, which was a serious issue, appears now to have been at least
provisionally resolved. Enough funds have been recently raised to complete the 1993-94 work
program for both the canal and dam components. However, should funding become scarce again,
there is considerable flexibility in the rate of development within the command area. From the
economic point of view, priority should then be given to the power component, because a slower
rate of command area development gives a somewhat higher ERR. However, this aspect conflicts
with the NWDT award which gives priority to irrigation over power generation, and would cause
further hardship on CAFs dependent on forthcoming irrigation to regain their prior standards of
living.
10.6 This PCR has suggested that the project may use more than the NWDT water allocations.
This risk could be reduced by strictly enforcing rotational water supply, or by adjusting the
cropping pattern to less water demanding crops, or by using more efficient water application
methods such as sprinlder and drip irrigation. However, the latter measures will require additional
investments which do not form part of the project design at present. The alternative would be to
reduce the size of the command area to limit the excessive spreading of water. This approach
would improve the project's economic viability and long-term sustainability2D.
11.   Bank Performance
11.1 Overall, the Bank's performance was excellent in the engineering fields, where high
standards of construction were developed and implemented. In the R&R, environmental and
health fields, however, Bank performance was mixed or poor particularly in the early stages.
With regard to the environment, the Bank failed to: (a) ensure that the project had been adequately
cleared by the Government before proceeding with the financing; and (b) adequately assess
environmental effects. This initial weakness continued during project implementation, and the
Bank initially failed to take the measures required to assist the Borrower in preparing an
environmental management plan for the command area. When it finally did so in 1992, it was too
late to act within the framework of this project Accordingly, it was decided that the preparation of
proper EA and Environmental Management Plans for the command area would be considered
under the then-proposed Canal Phase n1 project which has since been postponed to an unspecified
date.
11.2 The Bank demonstrated its willingness to respond to outside criticism when it appointed an
Independent Review of the project. This unprecedented decision has had beneficial repercussions
in the way business is conducted within the Bank. Although the findings and recommendations of
the Independent Review were not fully accepted by either the Bank or the Borrower, both
recognized a number of shortcomings in their actions and strove to address problems that had been
identified.
11.3 Throughout the project cycle from preparation to completion, the Bank made a large
commitment of staff. Tables 8 and 9 of Part III show that project appraisal required 191 staff
weeks and supervision 269 staff weeks, i.e., an average of 38.4 staff weeks per year for portfolio
management. This latter figure may be underestimated in view of the large staff input that was
required following the publication of the Independent Review report and the various actions to
monitor the implementation of the benchmarks after project closure. With this high level of staff
input, the Bank has had a constructive impact on project formulation, planning and implementation
in many fields such as hydrology and hydraulics, structural designs, irrigation and drainage
system design, institutional planning, cost estimates, R&R, environment and health. However, it
should be noted that throughout the project cycle, Bank missions showed some bias, largely
shared by the Borrower as well, toward the engineering aspects of the project. To be sure, many
20    Mm Bomwower reatas that the question of reducing the command we does not  e snce the objctive
of the project is to rechb the lrgest number of prsos in the drought pron maw.



36
supervision missions included an environmentalist and eventually both R&R and malaria
specialists. However, their recommendations never achieved as much impact as those of the
engineers.
11.4 Bank supervision missions provided valuable technical assistance and contributed to
establishing high standards in a number of engineering fields. Bank missions also had an impact
on institutional, environmental and R&R aspects of the project. It was at the Bank's insistence that
a number of committees were established: (i) the high level Narmada Planning Group, which made
a significant contribution to the project design; (ii) a Team of Experts, which led to the drafting of a
Memorandum of Understanding in December 1988; and (iii) the Board of Consultants and the
Expert Committee on Cement and Concrete, which allowed improvements in the quality of cement
and concrete structures. The Bank also had a large impact on the Borrower's overall awareness of
environmental, health and R&R aspects, which led to the drafting of an interim policy on CAFs,
the initiation of the command area EA, and the creation of malaria control units.
11.5  In retrospect, the Bank may have been over-ambitious in attempting to finance a project of
such scope and complexity. In its eagerness to proceed quickly with this large project, the Bank
considered the project in its entirety, as it resulted from the NDWT, without making a sufficiently
critical review of shorter term viable sub-projects. Smaller scale options such as financing the
Sardar Sarovar Dam for power generation only, or funding a smaller irrigation scheme which
initially did not rely on the construction of the Narmada Sagar Dam, were not given enough
attention. The Bank could have considered the expansion of the command area in stages if and
when other investments upstream (such as the Narmada Sagar Dam) were made. Rather than
divide the project into separate economically viable subprojects, the Bank preferred to consider the
economics of the project as a whole, in spite of the possibility that ultimately it may not be
implemented as originally planned. This uncertainty is still alive because of Gujarat's present
financial constraints, and also because of MP's reluctance so far to share certain project costs and
allow Gujarat to construct the irrigation bypass tunnel at a lower level or allow the dam to be
constructed to the full height. Fortunately, adjustments can sti}l be made in the project design and
size to improve the project's performance and viability2l.
11.6 The wisdom foi splitting of the project into two interlinked loans with only one economic
analysis appears debatable. It has created some confusion in the application of conditionalities but.
above all, has increased the paper work and demand on staff resources throughout the project
cycle. When an ED raised the splitting issue during Board Presentation, Management responded
that it was not because of a financial limit on the amount of Bank loans/credits but because different
agencies were involved in the implementation of each project. This answer needs to be qualified.
In fact, SSNNL (previously the Nannada Development Department), a Government of Gujarat
undertaking, was the sole agency for implementing the civil works of both projects, whereas the
R&R and environmental components were to be implemented by each of the participating states.
However, a more important issue is whether it was justified for the Bank to consider the SSP in its
entirety as planned by the Borrower or whether different planning approaches should have been
considered. From the Bank's point of view, the best solution would have been to finance a self-
contained Dam and Power project with an independent economic analysis - which would have
yielded a higher rate of retum - and a smaller and more intensive self-contained Water Delivery and
Drainage project - which also would have yielded a higher rate of retum. However, this view was
not shared by the Borrower who wanted the Bank to consider the SSP project in its entirety as per
the ruling of the NWDT. The Bank ultimately accepted the Borrower's comprehensive plan as a
package.
21    The BorwwoLs of the rnu opunon that the w  no rmaon for the Bark to review sborter tem or
anDer sub-projet or to finace only the power component sine al tbaee upects had already been
omosidcd by tbe NWDT.



37
11.7 The Bank was unrealistic in thinking that the partial completion of Phase I could be
accomplished in only three years. The overall job was large and complex, not only by Indian
standards, but by any standards. The design of the main canal, which is the size of a large river,
made it the largest canal in the world. Machine-placed lining was introduced for the first time in
India on this canal. Despite international competitive bidding (ICB) procurement, no foreign
company even participated in bidding, because of the special conditions and difficulties of
implementing large civil works in remote parts of India. This was perhaps not predictable, but as
a result, Indian contractors new to such technology needed two to three working seasons (viz.,
more than half the original time slice) to experiment with and perfect the technique of using
machines for the placement of lining. The machines initially imported by the contractors, on the
basis of their performance in industrialized countries, were not adequate and had to be replaced by
heavier ones with higher capacities. To achieve 55% physical completion of such a large canal --
from km 21 to 144 including excavation, embankments and lining -- in just three working seasons,
as stipulated in the SAR and DCA, was too ambitious. It was also unrealistic to expect GOG to
ensure 55% completion of seven major cross-drainage structures in three years. Each of these
structures is a project in itself. Some are large and require complex foundations, with associated
problems. In addition, inadequate time was provided for finalizing designs, and most of all for
implementing the BOC's recommendation. In fact, in the case of the Orsang Aqueduct, the design
for pre-stressed concrete was not accepted by the BOC and had to be entirely redone on the basis
of reinforced concrete. The redesign led to a delay of more than one year for this particular
structure.
11.8 The time required for ICB procurement procedures was also misjudged by the appraisal
team. Despite strict pre-qualification standards, some of the construction agencies did not perfonn
satisfactorily, such as the contractor engaged to build km 58-82 of the main canal, and another
responsible for the construction of four major cross drainage structures on the main canal. Both
these contractors had to be terminated and actions taken to award these works to other contractors.
In the case of branch canals as well, the prescribed time frame and completion schedule were over-
optimistic. Similarly, it was not feasible to meet the SAR criteria and standards for the planning,
design and implementation of the twelve distribution and drainage development blocks, within a
three-year time frame.
12. Borrower2z Performance
12.1 Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory in the engineering and irrigation
works, but much less satisfactory in implementation of the R&R of CAFs, environmental and
health aspects of the project. With regard to these latter project components, however, the
Borrower has argued that it can not be accused of doing an improper job since these aspects were
not adequately described in the original project and legal documents. Throughout the project cycle,
the Borrower was over-optimistic about its capacity to implement the project within the proposed
time frame. Even after the two-year delay due to Indian environmental clearance and the other
implementation impediments, the Borrower was still optimistic about completing the whole project
by the year 2000. At present, the Borrower may have revised its optimism in light of current
financial constraints, and may realize that the completion of this large project will take many more
years. During project implementation, the Borrower took a number of positive decisions which
helped project implementation. Among the most noteworthy was the creation of the Sardar
Sarovar Narmada Nigam, a public corporation with considerable flexibility in dealing with
administrative, personnel and financial matters.
22    In actual fact, 001 is the Borrower. Gujarat is the implenenting State and SSNNL is the implementing
Agency. Rather than to differentiate the roles played by each cntity, the gencric term 'Borrowera wu
used in this Section.



38
12.2 Throughout project implementation, the Borrower was responsive to the Bank's
suggestions regarding the engineering aspects of the project and at a later date to those relating to
the environmental, R&R and health aspects of the project. When the Independent Review mission
was in the field, the Borrower did its utmost to satisfy its demands in all respects and with genuine
openness. The Borrower was disappointed by the Independent Review report and, although
publicly muted in its response, felt that this report was biased. Nevertheless, the Borrower
responded positively to the Independent Review's findings and recommendations by recognizing
many shortcomings and doing its best to meet the benchmarks set by the Board of Directors.
However, at the end of March 1993 the Borrower requested the cancellation of the remaining Dam
and Power Loan.
12.3 In conclusion, the Borrower's performance for the SSP project, particularly in the field of
engineering, has been superior to that of any other irrigation project in India. Its performance with
regard to canal-affected families and some aspects of environment and health was weak, but is now
improving to a large extent.
13.    Project Relationships
13.1 The relationships between the Bank and the Borrower's implementing agencies, including
MOWR, NPG, NCA, SSNNL and the state governments, were good at all times - even during
the most difficult periods following the publication of the Independent Review report and the
creation of benchmarks by the Board. The Bank's and the Borrower's project staff have
maintained excellent professional, amicable and open relations all through the project cycle, thereby
enabling frank discussions and presentation of each other's viewpoints. The Borrower was
always diligent and open in responding to the Bank's technical suggestions, as well as the
numerous requests relating to R&R implementation and other sensitive aspects such as the
Borrower's dealings with critics of the project. Project management continued to give full
consideration and highly encouraging response to the Bank's observations and suggestions,
though these were not always consistent with the Borrower's view. Notwithstanding some minor
stresses and strains, strong professional ties between the Bank, Gujarat and SSNNL existed
throughout the operation of the project, allowing the satisfactory resolution of many issues.
14.    Consulting Services
14.1 The Borrower made extensive use of local consultants, as well as of local research
institutes and consulting firms, for planning, studies, and designs in the engineering, socio-
economic and environmental fields. Individual foreign consultants were also recruited from time to
time, though with some difficulty, to serve on the BOC and advise on some high-tech aspects of
the project. The Borrower initiated the recruitment of a foreign consultant firm to work with local
firms on the remote control and monitoring of canal operation. However, the Credit closed before
this consultancy could materialize. The services of National Council of Cement and Building
Materials (NCB) were also used for training Nigam engineers and technicians in NCB laboratories
on QCIQA aspects. The other major consultancies related to: (i) the recruitment of 23 local
consultant firms for the design of the irrigation and drainage development blocks; (ii) the
recruitment of an independent consultant to review the work of those 23 consultants; and (iii) the
establishment of an integrated MIS to monitor project implementation. It should be noted that the
consultancy under (i) was not financed under the Credit, due to a failure to follow the Bank's
guidelines. At Credit closure an amount of SDR 0.298 million was disbursed under the Technical
Assistance Category of the Development Credit Agreement, against an allocation of SDR 0.850 M.
15.   Project Documentation And Data
1.1 Tlhe SAR, with its two Supplementary Data Volumes, gave a good description of the
project as planned and served as a good basis and reference document for project implementation.



39
However, because the Water Delivery and Drainage project was closely associated with the Dam
and Power project, the SAR documents failed to differentiate adequately what belonged to each
project - particularly with regard to the sensitive areas of resettlement, environment, and health.
In addition, within the Water Delivery and Drainage SAR, it has been difficult to separate clearly
what was part of Phase I up to Mahi, and what was part of the three-year time slice that was to
receive only partial financing from IDA. For example, it was difficult to determine whether the
project actually achieved the target of constructing 55% of a large structure, when the works were
subdivided into excavation, concrete and masonry for foundations and superstructure. Each sub-
component progressed at a different pace and no average could be calculated. In retrospect, it
would have been preferable to finance entire structures within the framework of a longer
disbursement period.
15.2 Another defect of the SAR concerns the lack of clarity on the crop water requirement
calculations. The supplementary data volume does not include an annex on irrigation. The figures
on water requirements are spread out in parts of the SAR and annexes dealing with surface water
resources, groundwater resources, project criteria and plan of operation, and even in the economic
analysis. The conjunctive use component has not been well explained and, except for economic
calculations, little detail was given on the important DM&I component.
15.3 As indicated, the legal documents of the Water Delivery and Drainage project were quite
comprehensive on the irrigation and institutional aspects of the project. However, they were weak
on the R&R, environmental and health aspects. Some confusion arose because these aspects were
dealt with separately in the legal documents of the Dam and Power project
15.4 The Borrower produced quarterly progress reports which gave a clear picture of project
implementation. The Borrower also produced all the necessary information and latest data for the
preparation of this PCR.
16.  Lessons Learned
General Lessons
16.1  The fi= lesson is the need to set realistic implementation schedules: not according to the
most desirable implementation pace but according to the most probable pace -- one that assumes
day-to-day difficulties and innumerable physical, administrative and financial setbacks. The Bank
appraisal team was unrealistic in estimating the Borrower's ability to complete the project works
within three years. The Borrower was also unrealistic in agreeing to such a tight work schedule,
knowing the likelihood of frequent administrative and financial difficulties. In addition, in a
drought-prone area like Gujarat, the occurrence of severe droughts usually upsets any pre-
established implementation plans. The appraisal team did not make sufficient allowance for
predictable delays in the finalization of designs, procurement, non-performing contractors, re-
bidding, land acquisition, and introduction of new technologies.
16.2 The W&ond lesson is one that applies to many irrigation and drainage projects: the need to
complete the final designs for all major structures and distribution networks as early as possible in
the project cycle so the irrigation system can be substantially constructed by the time the dam is
completed and water becomes available. In the case of this project, the designs of some major
structures, as well as those of the irrigation and drainage blocks, were not ready until several years
after project inception. Due to procurement and other delays, the basic field irrigation systems
were not started during project implementation and therefore only a marginal area will be ready for
irrigation. The failure to prioritize designs and construction of lower level irrigation systems will
have a negative impact on the economic returns of the project's irrigation component.



40
16.3 The lbiM though not a direct lesson from project implementation (since irrigation has not
yet started), relates to the marginal ERR from the irrigation component. This rate is lower than it
might be primarily because of the extensive nature of the irrigation design. Though the design
reflects a deliberate decision aimed at increasing equity and meeting widespread needs for domestic
water, higher returns would probably be achieved through the use of more intensive irrigation
within a smaller command area. As there is still time to make this adjustment, a gradual approach
to developing the command area would be wise, given the uncertainties about ultimate efficiency
levels, the unknowns about upstream storage and utilization and the fact that the economics do not
require rapid establishment of the full command area. Fifteen years after the project was originally
conceived, a mid-term review of the initial assumptions should be conducted and adjustments made
to the present project design, consistent with current Bank practice. Such adjustments should
integrate the findings of the ongoing environmental impact assessment which is due in December
199423.
16.4 The fourh lesson concerns the need for the Bank to rely on the Borrower's commitment
and capacity for effective implementation of the R&R and environmental components of major
projects. Assessment of these aspects should be given the highest attention during appraisal. No
project should go to the Board unless the Bank is satisfied beforehand that the Borrower has fully
developed sound strategies and policies for dealing with key issues like R&R and environment.
The implementation of the SSP projects has clearly demonstrated the Bank's limited ability to make
up for the weaknesses of the Borrower in these fields in spite of a supervision input about ten
times the Bank average.
Lessons on Environment
16.5  The fa  lesson relates to the need for ensuring that all the Government clearances have
been obtained before negotiations, particularly in such sensitive areas as environment. The lack of
environmental clearance by the MOEF led to a two-year delay in project implementation. This
situation has damaged the project's image considerably, although it has not affected the possibility
of arneliorative action in the future.
16.6 The second lesson relates to the need for projects with environmental ramifications to have
a proper Environmental Impact Assessment as part of the normal feasibility studies, and to ensure
that corresponding mitigative measures are adequately integrated in the project design. One of the
major criticisms that emerged from the Independent Review Report was that the project was
approved without a proper Environmental Impact Assessment for the command area. Undertaking
an EA, as required under the present more rigorous Bank guidelines, and including a separate
environmental component in the project's design are the best ways of ensuring that the requisite
environmental mitigating measures will be implemented in an adequate and timely manner.
16.7 The iCilid lesson relates to the need for the Bank to use highly qualified environmental
specialists to supervise the environmental component and, as needed, to provide guidance to the
Borrower in the resolution of special environmental issues.
16.8 The h lesson relates to the need for a separate health component in large irrigation and
drainage projects. Though this aspect was covered to some extent in the SAR and legal
documents, it is essential for the Bank and the Borrower to consider the inclusion of a separate
health component and employ qualified health specialists to supervise, monitor and evaluate its
implementation.
23    In addition to the points made in pevious footnotes, the Bomwower states that the ERR cannot be the
only yard stick for deciding the size of the command area, particularly under Indian conditions.



41
Lesons on Canal-Affected Persons
16.9 The fi lesson is that projects involving R&R require considerable preparatory effort,
including affected persons' involvement, a sound policy base, adequate budgeting and financing,
good R&R component design, precise and detailed legal document conditionality and consistently
good supervision to increase the chances of success. Particular attention should be given to the
application of the prevailing Bank guidelines during preparation, appraisal and negotiations of large
muli-purpose projects (and others). If the guidelines change during project implementation and
supervision, the Bank should approach the Borrower to see in what way the new guidelines can be
applied.
16.10 Th second lesson is that canal-affected persons need to be adequately compensated and
provided with the additional resources for purchasing land to replace what they have lost. Special
attention should be given to the impacts of canals, drains or roads on the viability of farm holdings.
Finally, alternative solutions such as land consolidation and field boundary realignment should be
considered, at least in a pilot fonn, to minimize land acquisition and facilitate access of holdings to
irrigation, dminage and roads.
16.11 The liir lesson is that there are some differences between canal-affected and reservoir-
affected persons. In the canal-affected case, persons are usually partially affected and villages
often not at all, whereas in the reservoir-affected case, persons and villages arm fully affected and
must be relocated often in a completely different enviromnent and habitat. Though the basic
objectives and principles should remain the same in each case, the substance of such policies may
differ.






43
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT FOR THE SARDAR SAROVAR
PROJECT FOR WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1553-IN)
PART-II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(A)   Adequacy and accuracy of factual infornation in Part-r. -
Information contained in Part-im of the PCR is adequate and accurate.
(B)   Comments on analysis contained in part-I of the PCR
The comments on the paras other than those on which NCA has given the
conmments to commissioner (PP), Ministry of water resources vide letter No.
D-19(2)/93-94/dtd. 24/27 october 1994, and on the paras on which GOG like to react
are as under:
Evaluation Summry
Environment:-
Para-12 to 14 (Piv)
With reference to para 12 to 14 of the PCR this is to inform that the concern of the
SSP authorities for assessment of environmental impacts was demonstrated by the fact
that in 1983, i.e., long before the loan agreement withthe World Bank was signed, and
clearance by the Ministry of Environment and Forest were considered, a preliminay
impact assessment study was completed through the M.S. University, Baroda. This
study was commissioned by the Narmada Planning Group.
The bank credit and loan agreement in 1985 for SSP covered certain envionmental
issues. Based on this, the Government agreed to prepare a work plan by December,
1985 dealing with enviommental issues. Consequently, GOG had prepared the work
plan in February, 1986 and were fumished to MOE&F and World Banl.
Themafter, the clearance for the project was received from MOE&F and Planning
Commission. Since the work plans for environment related mitigative measures were
ready, Gujarat was able to launch immediate implementation of these.
While implementing these measures in re  spirit, main thrust was laid to fulfil the
conditions stipulated by GOI, so that these are implemented pari-passu with engineering



44
components of the project.
Canal Affected Families:
Para-16(P.iv):
Regarding para-16 it is to inform that land acquistion procedure is governed by L.A.
act. compensation for the land to be acquired is determined as provided by section 23
of the act. This section provides not only simple market price of the land but also
provide cushion against inflation in form of 12% increase per year compulsion of
acquision in form of 30% soletium, compensation for structures such as well,
buildings, pipelines etc. It also provides compensation for severing the land and
compensation for the expense incidental to change of residence or business.
Therefore, sufficient provisions are made in L.A. Act, so that the compensation
determinedunder these provisionscan cover the replacement cost and additinal cost of
developing relacement land.
Lessons leamt:
A. General Lessons:
Para- 35 (P. viii)
Regarding Para -35,several reasons can be ascribed for the delay in implementation of
the project within specified time schedule. Of course, fact remains that the time schedule
for implementatin itself was over ambitious considering the nature of work involved.
Most of the other reasons for delay were extraneous in nature and generally beyond the
control of the project authorities or the bank and in certain cases arose out of procedural
requirements which could have been curtailed. Some of them are listed below:-
(a) The environmental clearance for the project took unduly long time. Not only that but
as compared to any other river valley projects in the country, this project was made a
special target for requirement conceming enviommental measures. The enviornmental
clearance was obtained in April 1987 only.
(b) Even after environmental clearance to the project in the instances where some forest
area was required for canal, large delays occured in release of such land required for the
purpose.



45
(c) The construction work mainly involved earthwork, lining and construction of
structures. The earthwork could be done at the desired speed. However, the lining had
to be done by using mechanical equipments. There was no previous experience of
mechanised lining on such a large scale in the country. Naturally, formulation of the
equipments most suited to the project needs took some time. In the initial stage the
problem arose out of the fact that there was a considerable gap between rated capacity
and the actual output of the machine. There were also problem of mis-matching of
inputs in the form of labour requirements, preparation of subgrade for lining, transit
mixers for the transportation of the concrete from the batching plant etc. There were
certain other problems of comparatively minor nature like treatment of contraction joints
etc. However, with the joint efforts of the bank the project officials and the agencies
implementing the construction, all these problems have now been overcome. Although
in this particular slice of the project the above problems led to the delays, satisfactory
solutions of the problems led to an all round improvement in the ability of the project
authorities and the contractors to achieve progress consistent with high quality in the
remaining part of the work of the project.
(d) The problems relating to land acquisition were not as acute as in case of the dams.
However, as mentioned earlier the transfer of forest land required for the purpose
remains a bottleneck. Even though the land classified as forest is forest in the name sake
only.
(e) Procurement procedure -
The present practice of procurement involves several steps in pre-qualifying the bidder,
invitation of bids, evaluation of bids and awards of contract. It is felt that there is scope
for some improvement in this area so as to curtail the time required. Atleast in case of
critical works some flexibility is needed.
Para-36 (P. viii)
Regarding pam -36 it is to inforn that in this project, due to large capacity of canal,
some of the structures on river crossing are un-precedented in size. Finalisation of the
Designs of such structures some times take nore than expected time. Examples can be
cited of Orsang and Unch river crossing structures. In the case of aqueduct on Orsang
river doubts were expressed about the advisability of going in for prestressed concrete
for such a huge hydraulic structure. It was ultimately decided to go in for RCC
structure. Similarly the type of foundation was changed from well type foundation to
pile foundation. Not only that, at a later date dynamic analysis of the structure had to be
carried out which is generally done for large dams only in irrigation projects. In case of
Unch, doubts about the ability of foundation to take imposed load without un-due



46
settlement which can result in distress of structure were expressed. In case of both
structurtes opinion of expert of repute had to be obtained. Certain field studies and same
specified studies were required to be carried out, as also changes in designs. Instances
can be cited about changes in design for other structures as well.
B. Iessons on Environment:-
Para-39 (P.ID):
Regarding para-39 there were some delays because of the nature of basic work
changing EIA guidelines which made the work much more detailed, a development in
post-Morse Berger Review period and other factors.
Para-40 (P.IX):
Regarding para -40, it is to inform that a work plan for the environemental aspects was
prepared soon after the agreement with the World Bank and this was finalised and made
available to the World Bank and the Ministxy of Environment & Forest in February,
1986. These work plans did not follow an impact assessmnent in the sense being talked
now since the procedures for environmental impact assessment were in a state of
development and for example, the Guide lines of the World Bank came later but, the
work plans were prepared by the experts in the respective fields. The database was
further strenghtaned by detailed studies by a multi- discriplinary team of scientists of
eminence belonging to M.S. University, Baroda.
In fact downstream impacts could not have been appreciated in depth without
assessments by NPG/SSNNL/CICFRI and M/s. HR Wallingford. Most of the
command area studies are nearing completion and infact, impacts and broad
management approaches have already been documented in the EIA Interim Report
preparedd by NPG in April, 1993 and fumished to GOI, NCA etc. The said reportis
now published in one volume by Mr.Y.K. Alagh - Mr.Mahesh Pathak - Mr.D.T. Buch
and is a priced publication. There were some delays because of the nature of basic work
changing EIA guidelines which made the work much more detailed, developments in
post Morse Berger Review period and other factors. Detailed management plans are
being framed and these will be ready well before irrigation commences under SSP in
conformity with the pari- passu clause governing the clearance of the project. It is also
to be noted that reports of M/s HR. Wallingford on agrochemical pollution and more
detailed ground water modeling are yet to be received.



47
Para - 41 (P. ix):
Regarding Bank's comments in para 41, it can be said that contribution of M.S.
University team in Environment impact study has been acknowledged by several
knowledgeable intemational experts on environment. A multi-disciplinary team of about
a dozen professional experts worked for almost two years to produce an authentic
report on the environmental impact on the submergence area
Para -42 (P-ix)
The work plan on health have already been prepared in 1986, which covers monitoring
of the malaria also. The state apex body viz. Commissionerate of Health and Medical
services is inplementing the preventive measures and also monitoring the malaria and
other water related deseases. The infrastructure at commissionerate level wil be
strengthend before the irrigation commence as requirement. SSNNL has already created
prevertive Health organisation at Kewadia.
C. Lessons on Canal Affected Families.
Para-44 (p.x):
Regarding para-44 comments are given in para-16. Further it is to state that it is ot
possible to apply consolidation system at this stage because most of the lands for
phase-I are already acquired and more than 25% of the lands for phase-Il are also
acquired. Holdings of lands in phase-I are very big and are spread over large areas.
Therefore the suggetion is not feasible for implementation.
Part - I Project Review from Bank's perspective:
5. Project Design and organisation:
Para- 5.36
In Para 5.36, it has been mentioned that ground water development was yet not
integrated in the design of initial 52 irrigation blocks and the omission needs to be
redressed by carrying out detailed groundwater survey of each of the initial blocks
indicating where private and public ground water development is expected to take place
and the quantum to be extracted. This statement does not consider the basic fact that
groundwater studies are done for reasonably large aquifer systems (in this particular
case, the acquifer underlying parts of region 1, 2 and 3). Further, it has been made clear
to the World Bank that for flexibility and decentralised progressive development, the



48
Govt. of Gujarat has decided to leave ground water development to the farmers
themselves without avoidable carrage of groundwater to VSA heads. The Nigam/Govt.
of Gujarat would intervene in the form of public development only when the
conjunctive use has not come up as expected and water tables have reached a level 5m
below the ground levels. Obviously this would take a long time and in any case not less
than 10 to 15 years. Specially the present scenario of overdrawal of groundwater and a
large ground water use in the command area already developed (over 1.0 MAF) has to
be appreciated. The borrower, therefore, does not consider that such a scheme of
advance blockwise planning is feasible or required before actual irrigation has
commenced. After irrigation has commenced and ground water assessment made is
fully validated, it would be certainly possible to operationalise ground water use.
Farmers intending to drill tubewells very early will be certainly permitted to do so
within overall constraints of sustainable recharge estimates already available. In our
knowledge, there is no project in the World, where such advance planning is attempted.
Even vertical drainage measures (pumping out unusable saline water), would arise only
after the experience of irrigation.That is why we have an elaborate groundwater
monitoring network or piezometeres in the command area.
Para -7.9
Report does not take note of fact that the GOG/NPG with assistance from SSNNL has
already produced EIA Interim Report for the command area of SSP in April, 1993. This
is a comprehensive document based on discussions with the world Bank experts, initial
assistance from Dr. Whitington , technical assistance from M/s HRW and many other
departments and institutes of Gujarat. Part-I of the Report may note that M/s HRW are
refining drainage study and are also doing agro- Chemical impact study for the
command area. After the receipt of the outcomes of more detailed ground water and
other impact studies (through M/s HRW ) and after completion of EI A studies on flora
an fauna, fisheries, public health integrated command area development (all in advance
stage of completion ), GOG and the Nigam will produce an Environmental Management
plan which will be ready well before the commencement of irrigation.
Para 7. 10
Even regional ground water studies themselves are being further refined through M/s.
H.R. Wallingford. Obviously, the environmental implementation can be tuned up after
irrigatin has conmenced With the aid of vigilant monitoring, it would be more
meaningfull to operationalise environment - oriented water management so that most
appropriate and targetted measures are taken- Given the basic documented planning,
designs and the commitment on the part of GOG/Nigamn, how can we conclude that the
borrower would wait for unexpected levels of groundwater rise? Also, when surface



49
drainage systems are being constructed side by side with irrigation network, how can
we conclude that we are waiting for unacceptable outcomes? we feel that such
conclusions are premature, though we certainly agree that very careful monitoring and
analysis will have to be pursued on an annual basis for the first 5,10 or 15 years to plan
sustainable withdrawals required based on actual water use and ground water
behaviour.
Para- 7.14
Basically the health plan for the project was formulated as early as in 1986 and the cost
is provided as early as in 1986 and the cost is provided in the basis project Secondly,
Dr. Kalra's observation that level of malaria in villages near the darn site were nearly
double that of other villages was clearly refuted by Gujarat because in that year almost
all Gujarat areas had experience increased incidence of malaria in a characteristic cyclic
fluctuations as observed in India & Gujarat. Besdes Kevadia Hospital has the basic
infrastructure for malarial control & prevention and more posts for strengthening were
also approved.
Para-7.22
The work plan on Health has been prepared in 1986 and it covers monitoring and
control of malaria. The state apex body viz. CHMS is implementing the preventive
measures and also monitoring the malaria and other water related deseases. The
infrastructure at comnissionerate level will be strengthened before the irrigation
commences as per requirement. SSNNL has created preventive Health organisation at
Kewadia.
Para- 7.24
After irrigation has commenced and ground water assessments made are fully validated
it would be certainly possible to operation alise the ground water use. Farmers
intending to drill tubewells very early will be certainly permitted to do so within overall
constraint of sustainable reacharge estimates already available. In our knowledge, there
is no project in the world, where such advance planning "by microsystem " is
attempted Even vertical drainage measures (pumping out unusable saline water), would
arise only after having obtained the experience of irrigation. That is why we have an
elaborate groundwater monitoring network or piezometers in the command area.
Para -7.29
After comletion of review studies being carried out by MIs. HR Wallingford. It would



50
be possible to operationalise surface and subsurface drainage plan. A drainage specialist
will be employed to review surface and subsurface drainage after getting reports from
M/s HR Wallingford.
Para- 7.32
Special studies for Environmental Impact Assessment on following three sanctuaries/
National Park have been undertaken by GEER foundation
(i) Nal Sarovar Bird Sanctuary
(ii) Velavadar National Park
(iii)Wild Ass Sanctuary.
The report on above studies are likely to come in March 1996. After getting these
studies completed necessary mitigatory measures will be taken up and accordingly the
plans for monitoring and management will be prepared.
8.0 Canal Affected Families
Para- 8.2
Regarding para 8.2 of PCR, The land acquisition for canal is governed by the Land
Acquisition Act, enacted by the Government of India, and applicable all over the
country for roads, canals, drains & other public purposes. Compensation for land and
structures, if any acquired has normally to be determiined strictly according to this Act.
Compensation of the land to be acquired is paid taking into consideration provisions
made in L.A. Act. vide section -23. According to Section-15 of the L.A. Act, Land
Acquisition officer has to consider these provisions while determining the amount of
compensation. Section-23 of the L.A. Act. reads as under:
"Matters to be considered in determining compensation- (1) in determining the
amount of compensation to be awarded for land acquired under this Act, the
Court shall take into consideration:
first, the market-value of the land at the date of the publication of notification
under section 4, sub- section (1).
secondly, the damage sustained by the persons interested, by reason of the
taking of any standing crops or trees which may be on the land at the time of the
Collector taking possession thereof;



51
thirdly, the damage (if any), sustained by the person interested, at the time of
the Collector's taking possession of the land, by reasons of serving such land
from his other land;
fourthly, the damage, (if any) sustained by the person interested, at the time of
the Collector's taking possession of the land, by reason of the acquisition
injuriously affecting his other property, moveable or immoveable, in any other
manner,or his earnings; and where the person interested is a tenant of the land,
only the damage sustained by him by reasons of the acquisition injuriously
affecting his right as a tenant;
fifthly, if, in consequence of the acquisition of the land by the Collector, the
person interested is compelled to change his residence or place of business, the
reasonable expenses (if any) incidental to such change;
sixthly, the damage (If any) bonafide resulting from diminution of the profits of
the land between the time of the publication of the declaration under section 6
and the time of the Collector's taking possession of the land;
and
Seventhly, in the case of any land which according to the terms of the tenure on
which it is held is not transferable or partible by metes and bounds without the
sanction of the state Govemment or any competent officer, the market value of
similar land held without such restriction.
(IA)   In addition to the market value of the land, as above provided , the Court shall
in every case award an amount calculated at the rate of twelve percent per annum
on such market value for the period commencing on from the date of the
publication of the notification under section 4, sub- section (1), in respect of
such land to the date of the award of the Collector or the date of taking
possession of the land, whichever is earlier.
Explanation-In computing the period referred to in this sub-section any period
or periods during which the proceedings for the acquisition of the land were
held up on account of any stay or injuction by the order of any court shall be
excluded.
(2) In addition to the market-value of the land, as above provided, the Court
shall in every case award a sum of thirty percent on such market value in
consideration of the compulsoury nature of the acquisition.



52
Thus it is not true that the compensation paid to CAFs does not fully cover the
cost of land. It is clear that an adequate value of the fixed assests acquired, is also paid.
However land- loosers are free to approach courts of law for enhancement of
compensation. Thus fair dealing is always assured to the land-loosers
Para-8.3
Regarding para 8.3 of PCR, the Nigam (and not Govt. of Gujarat as mentioned)
had hired DIM for study of canal affected people. It was found that full scale
extrapolation was made from the limited data available. This was prima facie unrealistic
due to widely different characteristics of sample area from related area on the full scale
project area. Obviously, more comprehensive and representative data were required to
have as large and representative sample as possible. A detailed report explaining why
the IIM's findings and recommendations are not acceptable was forwarded to the World
Banks representative Mr. Don Gamble vide a Fax message
Para- 8.4
Regarding para-8.4 of PCR, the figure of the canal affected persons and that of
land to be acquired for the whole canal system are not likely to be higher in future,
because the works of drains, roads etc. are carried out simultaneously with the canal
works and hence these figures includes such works also.
Para-8.5
Regarding para 8.5 of PCR, It is strong belief of the Nigam and Govt. of Gujarat
that the persons affected by dam & those affected by the canal system are not
comparable. Therefore the question for revising this stand does not arise. Means and
ways are provided at the canal sites for accessing the canals at certain distance. Thus a
person having land on both the sides of canal can cultivate his whole holding easily.
Therefore the question of disruption created by Division of holdings into uneconomical
parallel does not arise. Moreover there is a provision of paying severance charges
insection-23 of the L.A. Act.
Para-8.9
Regarding para 8.9 of PCR, it is the stand of the Nigam and Govt. of Gujarat
that only those persons loosing more than 75% of their land should be considered
severely affected persons and those loosing less than 25% of holding should not be
considered severely affected, because most of the canal affected people will get benefit



53
of the irrigation directly or indirectly.
Para-8.10
Regarding para 8.10 of PCR, it is emphasized by the Nigam that more and more
acquisition cases are disposed off by consent award . Govt. of Gujarat has already
resolved that if land holders give consent for a certain market price, incentive upto 35%
of the maket price can be added to the compensation.Nigam has formed tier committees
to determine the compensation to be paid in such cases, and Nigam has been fortunate
to get consent from land holders in many cases, avoiding court-references.
Para-8.1 1
Regarding para 8.11 of PCR, Land acquisition work in phase-I (i.e. in Bharuch,
Baroda & Panchmahal districts ) is mostly completed. Most of the lands for
distributories & Minors in phase-I are acquired through private negotiation. Therefore
the question of applying a system of land consolidation in phase-I does not arise. In
phase-lI also, most of the lands (in Kheda, Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Surendranagar
& Mehsana districts) are acquired either by awards or by private negotiation. Moreover
in the rest of the area of the canal system, the holdings of the land are very big and are
spread over large areas. Therefore it would not be possible to apply a system of land
consolidation as suggested.
9.0 Project Achievement
Para-9.6
Regarding para-9.6, crop requirements were worked out on effective rainfall and
not on average rainfall. Further, work done by WALIH, Maharashtra and others
indicates that, if at all, the modified Penmen method in many situaions overstimates the
crop water requirements then those that would be actually needed. There is thus, no
underestimate of water requirements either on account of rainfall considerations or uses
of Penman's approach. In fact practical limited experience in the country indicates that
with volumetric supplies and even with good RWS, farmers would better optimise
rainfall contributions and also prepare their fields better for efficient surface water
application.



54
12.0 Borrower's performance -
Para- 12.3
Regarding para-12.3, Gujarat is well ahead in implementation of compensatory
afforestation plans, catchment area treatment plans and formulating fisheries and public
health plans, apart from the need to update some of these in light of more detailed
assessments. Command area impacts are also clearly identified now & management
plans are under preparation as discussed hereafter. Before irrigation commences, all the
required management interventions are being worked out fully in conformity with the
'pari passu' approach. For R&R, Gujarat plans are now being considered as models in
the country & the party states of Maharashtra & Madhya Pradesh are also gearing up.
16.0 Lessons Learned
Comments are given under "Lessons Learned " of 'Evaluation Summary.'



55
Annexure - 1:
Hydrology and water Management:
Risk Analys:
Para-28
In Para-28, the PCR states that even assuming that the water availability and size of
command area have been matched, to reduce the risk of SSP not operating as planned
strict water use policies must be established, closely monitored and enforced by NCA.
As the NCA has been constituted for close monitoring of all such aspects there is no
question of SSP not operating as planned and the availability of water not matching
with the size of command area. These, being assumptions made by the PCR mission,
should be excluded from this para. It is stated in the PCR that the detailed rules for
conjunctive use have not yet been worked out or ground water integrated in the design
of the initial 52 irrigation blocks. This statement doesnot consider the basic fact that
groundwater studies are done for reasonable large aquifer systems (in this particular
case, the acquifer underlying parts of region 1,2 and 3). Further, it has been made clear
to the World Bank that for flexibility and decentralised progressive development, the
Govt. of Gujarat has decided to leave ground water development to the farmers
themselves without avoidable carriage of groundwater to VSA heads. The Nigamn/Govt.
of Gujarat would intervene in the form of public development only when the
conjunctive use has not come up as expected and water tables have reached a level 5m.
below the ground levels. Obviously this would take a long time and in any case not less
than 10 to 15 years. Specially the present scenario of overdrawal of groundwater and a
large ground water use the command area already developed (over 1.0 MAF) has to be
appreciated. The borrower, therefore, does not consider that such a scheme of advance
blockwise planning is feasible or required before actual irrigation has commenced. After
irrigation has commenced and ground water assessment made is fully validated, it
would be certainly possible to operationalise the ground water use. Farmers intending
to drill tubewells very early will be certainly permitted to do so within overlall
constraints of sustainable recharge estimates already available. In our knowledge, there
is no project in the World, where such advance planning "by microsystems" is
attempted. Even vertical drainage measures (pumping out unusable saline water), would
arise only after the experience of irrigation.That is why we have an elaborate
groundwater monitoring network or piezometeres in the command area.



56
Annexure-2:
Evironnrnental im=aats and Maagrnient:
Independent Review Report
Para-21
In para 21, the view of the IRR is reflected stating that prefeasibility studies beyond
Mahi have indicated that serious soil and waterlogging problems will be ecnountered in
the costal Bhal areas, in north Gujarat areas as well as along the Saurashtra and Kutch
branches. This paragraph may clearly bring out that under assumptions of matching
conjunctive use, the waterlogtging shown by the models is not large and in the
culturable command area this would be manageable even using conservative
assumptions of related parametres. We have clearly brought out in the interim EIA
report now available in the form of a book entitled "Namnada & Envimonment : An
Assessment" - Har-Anand Publishers, New Delhi. prepared in April, 1993 of the
command area (Chapter No.5) that overall, the waterlogging in CCA is not likely to
exceed about 5 to 7 percent with conjunctive use of ground water and with vertical
drainage measures. Banks management response may also indicate that M/s.
H.R.Wallingford is further refining the modelling studies in a composite command area
model using more consistent and realistic sets of parameters in respect of rainfall,
irrigation recharges, transmitivity and storage coefficients etc. Infact in absence of the
project, the watertable would continue to decline and thereby create serious problems
for domestic water supply and irrigation as presently occurring in the northern part of
the command area. We totally agree with the assessment. Management response, thus,
to IRR may include this aspect.
Para-22
Para-22 reflect the concerns of the IRR on health aspects stating that the project has
been planned, designed and executed without incorporation of health safeguards and
that the levels of malaraia in villages near the dam site were nearaly double that of the
other villages served by the health centre in that area: Gujarat had also at that stage given
its response to IRR. Basically the Health Plan for the project was formnulated as early as
in 1986 and the cost is provided in the basic project. Secondly, Dr. Kalra's



57
in 1986 and the cost is provided in the basic project. Secondly, Dr. Kala's
observations that level of malaria in villages near the dam site were nearly double that of
other villages was clearly refuted by Gujarat because in that year almost all Gujarat
areas had increased incidences of malaria in a characteristic cyclic fluctuation as
observed in India & Gujarat Besides Kevadia Hospital has the basic infrastructure for
malarial control & prevention and more posts for strengthening are also approved. The
bank response, thus, in para-28 may be suitably amplified to reflect the real situation.
Para - 42
Para 42 of Annexure-2 of part-I discusses the borrower's performance. It says that
with modem computer simulation and remote sensing technology, it is possible and
necessary to study atleast the most critical impacts so that the project design can
incorporate the most likely impacts. This statement once again does not take note of
fact that based on soil surveys and existing data, the project design does identify the
vulnerable areas from productivity and waterlogging considerations e.g. region 4, 7, 11
and already therein. For these areas, the water allowances are about 70% of normal.
Groundwater modelling grids are already set up. There is also definite built-in
provision for tubewells for vertical drainage and pumping out unusable water,
Obviously the planning and design have considered these aspects. For a developing
country deficient in resources, anticipatory structures cannot be put in before seeing
sustainable actual irrigation recharges and actual groundwater behaviour as discussed in
the preceding paragraph. Even regional ground water studies themselves are being
further refined through MWs. H.R. Wallingford. Obviously, the environmental
implementation can be tuned up after irrigation has commenced. With the aid of vigilant
monitoring, it would be more meaningful to operationalise environment-oriented water
management then. So that most appropriate and targetted measures can be taken.
Given the basic documented planning, designs and the commitment on the part of
GOG\Nigam, how can we conclude that the borrower would wait for unexpected levels
of groundwater rise? Also, when surface drainage systems are being constructed side
by side with irrigation network, how can we conclude that we are waiting for
unacceptable outcomes? We feel that such conclusions are premature, though we
certainly agree that very careful monitoring and analysis will have to be pursued on an
annual basis for the first 10 or 15 years to plan sustainable withdrawals required based
on actual water use and groundwater behaviour.



58
Annexure-3
Resettlement of Rehabilitation of canal afffected Families.
Para4
Regarding para-4, It is to inform that the figure of the canal affected persons and
that of land to be acquird for the whole canal system are not likely to be higher in
future, because the works of drains, roads etc. are carried out simultaneously with the
canal works & hence these figures include such works also.
Para-6
Regarding para-6, it is not true that Normialy the value of land is based on the
R.D's records of past transactions to determine appropriate compensation. Only the
transactions of the land width just similiar in many repects and just near the acquired
land are considered for valuation of acquired land moreover factors like potentiality
towards non- agricultural development, availability of irrigation, fruitility etc. are also
considered.
Para-7
Regarding para-7, it is to inform that in Gujarat there is nothing like 'Collective'
land ownereship. It is not true that many people in a village may share a piece of land.
Any act cannot discriminate among different socio-Economic classes.
Para-8
Regarding para-8, it is to inform that Means and ways are provided at the canal
sites for accessing the canals at certain distance. Thus a person having land on both the
sides of canal can cultivate his whole holdig easily. Therefore the question of disruption
created by division of holdings into uneconomical parallel does not arise. Moreover
there is a provision of paying severance charges in Section-23 of the L.A. Act.
Para-36
Regading para-36, it is not true that the issue of CAFS surfaced in 1987 only
when non-tribal land was acquired alongwith tribal land. GOG & Nigam have always



59
taken more care for tribal people.
Para-38
Regarding para-38, it is to inform that the land acquisition for canal is governed by
the Land Acquisiton Act, which is enacted by the Government of India, which is
applicable all over the country for roads, canals, drains and other public purposes.
Compensation for land and structures, if any, acqquired has normaly to be determined
strictly according to this Act. No exception can, therefore, be made for canals for a
particular project except for special, features, which are not common to other canals,
roads etc.
The Nigam has been quite liberal in determining compensation for land and other
properties, if any, to be acquired. Nigam has been fortunate to get willing cooperation
of land holders in handing over possession of land to enable canal works to proceed.
NO doubt, the land holders are free to apporoach Courts of Law for enhancement of
compensation. Thus, fair dealiing is always assured to the land holders.
Para-39 & 40
Any policy that may finally emerge for compensation to CAPs must be firstly
implementable and secondly it should not hinder the progress of obtaing land by
private negotiations as is being done today. Government of Gujarat and the Nigam are
open on this issue, but it would be difficult to accept recommendations of IIM in toto
since some of them have State and Nationwise implications. We believe that for branch
canals and distribution net work no change in policy is called for as the impact of
acquisition is negligible. Only in the cases of main canal some few hard cases may have
to be considered on merits. It is only for main canal and SBC where the land width is
greater and so the policy may have to be evolved after collecting data regarding
altemative source of income for total or near total land losses.
Para-49
Regarding para-49, it is emphasized by the Nigam that more & more acquisition
cases are disposed off by consent award. G.O.G. has already resolved that if
landholders give consent for a certain market price, incentive upto 35% of the market
price can be added to the compensation. Nigam has formed two-tiered committees to
determine the compesation to be paid in such cases, and Nigan has been fortunate to
get consent from landholders in many cases, avoiding court references.



60
Para-50
Regarding Para-50, land acquisition work in phase-I (i.e. in Bharuch, Baroda &
Panchmahal districts) is mostly completed. Most of the lands for distributories and
minors in phase-I are already acquired through private negotiation. Therefore the
question of applying a system of land consolidation in phase-I does not arise. In
phase-IH also, most of the lands (In Kheda, Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Surendranager
& Mehsana districts) are acquired either by awards or by private negotiation.Moreover
in the rest of the area of the canal system the holding of the land are very big and are
spread over large areas. Therefore it would not be possiblee to apply a system of land
consolidation as suggested.
Annexure-4
Revised Cost-Benefit Analysis:
Para-6
Though in theory and in narrow economic terms, ERR would improve with
restirction of commnand area and more intensive irrigation as mentioned under para 6,
GOG would not like to curtail the command area. Narmada waters provide the last
dependable opportunity for the backward and drought prone areas of the command
located in North Gujarat, Saurashtra and Kutch. The social objectives of SSP can not
be diluted merely on the score of narrow economic cost benefit analysis. It is clear that
social benefits to these distant areas in the form of human misery during consecutive
drought spells, large scale migration of cattle population, health problems arising from
lack of drinking water or from drinidng non-potable or saline water by people cannot be
evaluated in economic terms. Even after inclusion of these areas in the command, the
overall ERR and benefit cost ratio are favourable (ERR 12%, B/C ratio 2.0). Our
studies indicate that many of these areas may need only 2 to 3 watering for irigation
(overall depth not exceeding 12") and even in economic terms, the gains or the benefits
would be very high per unit of water supply in terns of yield increments of cereals,
fodder and fiber crops. Local water harvestng will also be integrated as recently
decided. The views of NCA on this issue, forwarded separately to the Bank, are also
on these lines.



61
The social objectives of SSP are equally sacrosant. As regarad ERR with power project
alone, it may be stated that irrigation is the primaray objective of SSP and power
generation is a necessary adjunct in a multipurpose frame work, "Power alone" option
only strengthens the case of completing hydro-power component on priority.
Para-7
GOG does not agree that with the firm scheme of advance water allocations and
management through farmers organisations, the efficiency of water use would be lower
as brought out under para 7. With the quality work of lining being implemented (as also
documented by the World Bank), there is no apprehension that the efficiency of water
transmission will be lower than planned. In fact the seepage norms considered have
much higher values for lined Canals compared to these under California Aqueduct.
USA. We fully agree that the seepages that may occur would be available for conjuctive
use by farmers. Regeneration waters in streams and rivers will be utilised to the extent
needed by the farmers bodies with GOG and SSNNL providing full support.
(C) Evaluation of Bank's performance and lessons learnt -
(i)   Bank Personnel were recognised as Professional in all respects. Mission
Members, were always highly qualified in their respective fields. They
have made extremely useful suggestions for improvement in
implementation of project.
(ii)  Involvement of the bank has led to several steps being taken in the areas
of Planning, Design and Construction of the project. Some of the
important achievement are listed as under:
a)    The involvement of the bank led to the formation of the Narmada
Planning Group (NPG) for project formulation and preparation of the
background to achieve the targetted objectives of socio economic
development using State of the art techniques and standards for
'modernization' of the concepts of the project planning. In many ways
some of these studies carried out by the NPG were taken up for the first
time in the river valley development projects in the country.
b)    Management Information System (MIS)
At the instance of the bank efficient MIS has been established. This has



62
helped in objective evaluation and monitoring of the various aspects
relating to the implementation of the project. This has also helped in
identifying the grey areas requiring special attention.
(c) Designs:
A Board of Consultant was established on the recommendation of the
bank. The formation of such a board helped the project in proper
scrutiny of the design carried out by the project authorities. For this
board, services of consultants of repute have become available to the
project.
(d) Quality Control:
In the field of quality control, during initial stages bank expressed
certain concems. The project authorities promptly reacted to these
concerns and established a committee of experts on cement and concrete.
For this purpose also renown experts were drawn from the country. The
committee has made extremely useful suggetions in the area of use of
cement, manufacture and placement of concrete, testing of concrete and
has also led to formations of quality control standards and prrocedures
to be adopted on work. The committee also helped in arranging training
of project personnel in concrete testing and related topics.
(e) Introduction of new technologies:
For achieving speed in construction consistant with adherence to the
quality, for the first time in the country mechanised concrete lining of
canal on a large scale was taken up. Use of curing compound and PVC
induced crack joints are other areas which can legitimately claim to be
pioneering achievements so far as this country is concerned.
(f)   The involvement of bank also led to better appreciation of the role of
equipment planning. Earlier, this area did not receive adequate attention.
However, gradually, procedures were evolved under which at the time
of evoluation of bid itself this aspect is given its due importance.
(iii)  Involvement of the Bank has acted as a catalyst for attracting
intemational contractors and financers from outside sources. It has also
helped in adopting latest technical know-how as well better practices
being followed the world over.



63
(iv) The following lessons have been learnt from the experience:
a)    The time schedule required has to be a little bit realistic. In certain cases
the problems can be complex; e.g. Design and construction of major
cross drainage works. They are bound to be some surprises when the
actual work of such structures is taken up. The problems might require
consultancy at the highest level. It might also be necessary to carry out
some special study which in turn takes its own time. These factors need
to be considered in the time schedule. Another point is the procurement
procedures. The time required for fmxing agencies is always more than
anticipated at the time of formulation of the project
b)    To avoid delays and surprises during implementation, it is necessary that
survey, investigations and designs are carried out with utmost care. If
this has been done it can be of great help in the future.
c)    The resources required should be commensurate with the quantities
involved. This applies to physical, financial as well as human resources.
d)    The pre-qualification for the bidders has to be very stringent. There were
certain examples when the agencies could not measure up to the
expected requirements. In certain cases the contracts were required to be
terminated resulting in delays as well as other complexities.
e)    It is also felt by the project authorities that no new major conditions may
be imposed after the agreement is signed. This creates lot of problems in
certain cases. Moreover, once the agreement is signed there should not
be any doubts about its implementation particularly at the instance of
outside forces.
f)    The project authorities feel that there is need for flexibility of approach
on the part of the bank to change mutual procurement closed to suit the
local conditions. Some of the suggestions are listed as under :-
1)    Price escalation on key materials like cement, steel, etc. shall be co-related with
the base price of material and not with the price indices of the material, since the
indices do not reflect truly the fluctuations in the prices.
2)    Security for performance in civil work contracts shall be reduced from 10% to
6% as provided in non-world Bank aided contracts.



64
3)    Clause for paying secured advance on materials shall be included to avoid
blockage of cash flow of contractors.
4)    To convert security deposits recovered from intermediate bills into interest
bearing GovtlSSNNL securities or interest bearing deposits with scheduled
Indian bank taken out in the name of Engineer-in-Charge or into Bank guarantee
in installments of Rs.10 lacs each.
5)    Drawal of mobilisation advance shall be allowed upto six months from the date
of notice to proceed with the work. This period may be extended further for
three months if considered reasonable by the Engineer-in-charge.
6)    Recovery of advance and interest there on shall be made at a suitable percentage
not exceeding 30% of each bill including price escalation.
7)    Recovery of advance with interest shall be completed by the time work equal to
90% of the tender amount is completed instead of 80%.
(D)   Evaluation of borrower's own performance and lessons learned.
i)    The overall performance in project planning, design, execution and
implementation is good. Training rquired as suggested by Mission has
been well organised by the Nigam. For efficient management
information system of canal, computer centres are established.
ii)   Project Consultants provided valuable assistance in project
implementation. A good relationship existed between the consultants and
the NiganL
iii)   The work of surveying, design, planning and estimation (SDPE) for the
distribution network upto 40 ha. was entrusted to 23 private consultants
during 1989-90. The output given by most of the consultants was as per
the guidelines given by the Nigam. Submission by some of the
consultants was not upto the mark. However, due to the changes in the
concepts of planning finalised after discussions with the World Bank
review/supervision missions and the previous consultants, the reports
prepared by private consultants for SDPE are subsequently modified by
Nigam's in-house team.



65
iv)   The work of SDPE for the channels down to 40 ha. has been entrusted
to private consultants in 1991 and the submission of reports therefore by
them is underway at present. The planning to be done for this has also
been discussed at length with World Bank recommended Independent
review consultant, and his suggestions are being implemented.
v)    Procurement procedure for distribution and drainage for 12 blocks as
included in SAR and subsequently added seven initial reach blocks was
started in Sept'92 and the bid documents therefore have been cleared by
the Bank by June'1992. However, the formalities of invitation of bids
and fixing of agencies therefore could not be completed till the expiry of
extended date for the credit No.1553-48N.
vi)   It will be necessary to create the infrastructure in advance, especially for
"distribution and drainage" so that targets set forth may be achieved.
E)    Effectiveness of the relationship between the Bank and Borrower during the
evaluation and im=lementation of the proiect :-
The overall relationship with the bank was quite good and cordial during the
evaluation and implementation of the project.
(F)   The performance of co-financiers. and assess the effectiveness of their
relationship with the Borrower during the evaluation and implementation
There was no co-financing agency, no comments are offered.






IBRD 17939
FESRUAY 1984
I N DIA
R  4                                                                 NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT
P  A  K I S T A  N                                                      ,-                                     J                                                     W                      GUJARAT
WATER QUALITY AND AQUIFER TYPE
jbt-t_-_ \ y &_-/ 8FANASKANTHAWater Quality and Aqutfer Ty;pe
NTHA                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sol'n.  ater of all levels - aquifer
mo or mray not be present
-~~~~~~~~~                                                               Pr*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,l "Oto, at all lene1s in all-val
isAll.qvtal aq.ifer ,ith poor q,,ality ..t.,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                                                                                         *1                                       i   n upper layers
SnIton.* au.i., with fresh ..IS, at
KUTcH                                                                                                                                             NA 9 .        ..... Hordrock  que,r with fresh  ate,
GAR| SAARAANTHA 
Projecl  Area  Boundary
H    RAIKUOT   r7t                                    Mahi Commo,nd                                                        -   }         -   Destric I Boundjaries
JAMNIAGARP                ',                 !--                                                                                    ,     rS -~-         -   State  Bou/ndaries
J  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
-AJkOr                                                                                                                          Dis t      BdHARUCH  i Dt Bom   arr S
(              ,..   AMREl/II                                               r- r
JUNAGADY L N                                                                                        J
\ > 4   \                               ~~~~~~~SU/RAT                         X 
AMREL/DMAN >5/                                          /45,~                                                                        I N D t A   e
KIllOETEES                                                                                                          -              4                   -                                                NOt
o          4,0        50        '?                                       L         I
o      16     32      a5     64                                                                                                           LI
??W mmo t.e beon prerpared or The Borl* Bwd 0 O  euck.e lor St conn*wtce or                                                                                    rto
Ste oredero anod exI eusaw   ori. e,id isow ol rhe 59l BeaGE eId Ire Otirneorre                                                                                                                           So
Foince Corpor.07 rhc dw.rut uod arM i bsoe  Mta on lo s rtlp o nol51tAh
orM* on nt per ofhe WoldB.* end 1tb,trhloe Fnr~  Cuwrutreon. r  ,dor                                                          r~Lnl
on nO ealuaGE0  r IwoJ sruv or en wdownw,t or eurepccaro ncE 01 bovd n r.ree
SURA r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o






MD 17940R
I N D I A
R  A                                                   NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT
P A  K I S T A  N                                                                                                                                     GUJARAT
t 4. .. g S                             DEPTH TO WATER TABLE
jX'l  _ F-'  y          '_.y             X    AA~~~NAStAANHA           -"/Y 
ANASKANr.1JA                    "       '"                   tDEPTH TO  WATER TABLE:
v \"    rs ' g ~~ >>                                                      t n   han S meters
5 - 10 moters
HURCW                                 26  sAESANA  2                   \ * Greater thon 10 moters
- n._P:il;I~~AGAR  S/A8APANrHA 
Project Area Boundary
ti -/                        L  PANCAIMAHALSV     r              =    Dom  Site M
Proposed Mi   oo
s ' hSUR/Vt R                                                           >- Lu      ,_ __   Proposed Branch Conals
..   ..   .....  ~~~                          10Rivers
H ) RAjO -  fx                         2Mor7  C                           l            4        -  -  District Boundaries
L                                           M,h Crm   d                                                    neiogs13,,d,,
]AMNAGAA'               A                          j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                      eStat. Boundaries
f                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
r  W                            7                                    5 0IA7UCH DHA
JUNAGADH  L3         I                                                              -
)  -b                   h               SURA         r                .
J t \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rr \ 
AMREII                                                  VAISAD        _.
DAMANA?            /
O       46                I a                                                                            s  L 
o            g~~~~~o
0     16   32   allJ -4
MIL. ES                                                                                                                                                                           9
_                                                                                                                                              MY  1v94~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY19












