                                                               Report. No. 14160




                           PROJECTCOMPLFTIONREPORT

                                       INDIA

                          NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT
                WATER RIVER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
                                   (Gedit1553-IN)




                              Annexesto Part I, andPart I11




                                   March 29,1995




Agricultural OperationsDivision
Country Department2
SouthAsia Regional Office

                                                                             AI,lwd
                                                                             Page 1of 9

                             PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                              INDIA

                            NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT
                    WATER DELJYERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
                                         (Credit 1553-IN)

                      HYJlROLOGY AND WATER MANAGEMENT


                      Main Points of the Independent Review Report


1.      After setting out briefly the objectives of the multi-purpose SSP project, the Independent
Review Report describes its principal watcr management features. It is indicates that "SSP will
divert, on average, 9.5 million acre feet (MAF) of the Narmada River water out of the total of 28
MAF that has been allocated." (p. 241). The report states that the 40,000cubic feet per second
(cusec) main canal (p. 252) might be too large as it could empty the SSP reservoir live storage in
less than two months. TheIndependentReview Report also argues that the final height of the dam
was fixed at 455 ft without an environmental analysis of the impact on the submergence area (p.
244). In a discussion on water availability,the Independent Review Report hints that the figure of
28 MAF detennined by the Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal (NWDT)could be over estimated
because of a controversy on the quantum of water available and the assumption that the upstream
NSP dam would not be built simultaneously. The report also questions the accuracy of
hydrological data when it states that "no internal or external consistency checks have been made
and none are presently under way" (p. 248) and says that no appropriate understanding of the
hydrology of SSP with or without NSP exists. As a result, the Independent Review Report
suggests that the existing simulation studies should be updated and there is compelling evidence
that the SSP will not operate asplanned. In itsconclusions, the reportstates that there is a need for
a comprehensive reevaluation of the dam,powerhouse and canal system.

Bank Response

Introduction

2.      The Independent Review Report rightly points out that some of the assumptions made by
the NWDT particularly xegarding the stages of construction of NSP and other reservoirs upstream
of SSP are no longer valid due to delays in implementation But the report is not correct when (a)
it questions the accuracy of hydrological data, (b) says that no analysis of storage was done in the
event that NSP would not be constructed, and (c) concludes that there is a need for a
comprehensive re-evaluation of the dam, powerbouse and canal system. In the Bank's response
entitled 'Review of C a n t Status and Next Steps*prepared for the Board's meeting of October
23,1992, The Bank acknowledgedthat hydrologicalmodelling and data would have to beupdated
periodically to reflect changing conditions in the Narmada Basin. However, in the Bank's
opinion, water availabilityin the first 10-20years of the project will be more than adequateto fuE1l
SSP system's requirements under the current design even without further storage upstream, but
there was a risk in the long-term that some water shortage will occur in unusually dry years. The
Bank concluded that the project will have ample water for many years and that the SSP will work
as designed.

3.      Nevertheless, it is now felt that before embarking on the second time slice - including the
extension of the main canal and distribution networks beyond Mahi - it would be necessary to
clarify water allocation policies and update some of the initial assumptions on the basis of more
recent technical and economic data. During this process, it would benecessary to consider various

                                                                                        &lnIuxd
                                                                                        Page 2 of 9

development scenarios upstream of the Sardar Sarovar Dam - with delays for NSP and water
allocation policies between irrigation, M&I, downstream releases and power generationparticularly
during the early stages of development. While considering such development scenarios, it is
importantto realizethat the height and live storage of the SSPdam, the size of the SSPmain canal
up to Mahi, and the quantum of surfacewater (as per the NWDT award) are fixed. The variables
of the development optionswould then be: the releases downstream for environmentalcontrol, a
more precise estimate of groundwater availability at various locations of the command area, the
amountof power generation and the sizeof the command a ~ An                 . economicre-evaluation of SSP
is requiredto give an adequate weightage to possible additional benefits derived from M&I water
supply,peak power generationand revised cropping pattern. The result of this exercisewould be
to rank development options and optimizethe economic, environmental and social benefits of the
project.

Sizing of Dam and Main Canal

4.      The IndependentReview Report recognizes that the height of the dam is a compromise
decreed by the NWDT after having considered various options involvinghigher and lower dam
heights and weighed the costs and benefits of these options. The costs of a higher dam are the
displacementof additional people and thelossof agriculturalland in MP due to submergence. The
benefits are the higher power generation which will benefit Madhya Pradesh and the larger irrigated
areas during the dry season which will benefit Gujarat. This compromise was arrived at after
many years of discussions and can not be revised without contravening the Tribunal's decision.
The dam, theriverbed power house and allappurtenantstructureshave now been designed and"=
being constructedfor a frnalheight of 455 ft.

5.      With regard to the sizing of the main canal, the final figure of 40,000 cusecs (1,120 cu-
mecs) was established after several studies which considered higher and lower discharges. The
final sizing was arrived at by considering peak surface water requirements at full development
which will occur during two fortnights, one in November and another in February. At one stage,
the Bank suggested a larger discharge of 45,000 cusecs for improved operational flexibility.
However, this option was rejected sincethe main canal will be able to supplymore than the actual
demand during the many years preceding full development. The Bank SAR (SDV Annex 6, p. 11)
statesthat safety factorsof 5% to 15%were used in the design of the irrigation system to take into
account the possible inaccuracies in crop water requirement calculations and also the possible
changesof croppingpattern in the future. Thefactthat the main canalcould depletethe mewoir in
two months is not specific to SSP. Similarsituationsoccur with any main canaldesigned, as is the
usual practice, to satisfy peak water requirements. Fortunately, peak water requirements only last
about two weeks and, the rest of the time, water flows will be closely adjusted to water demand
through a relatively sophisticated remote control and monitoring system down to the 8.5 m3Is
level. At the lowervillage level water will be distributedstrictlyin accordanceto the area served.
Therefore, the risk that the main canal will empty the reservoir in less time than it should is
remotel.

Accuracy of Hydrological Data

6.      The Independent Review Report is incorrect in saying that no internal and external
consistencychecks were carried out on the hydrological data In fact, several hydrologicalseries
have been proposed for estimatingthe overall Nannada River water resource. AU seriesare based
on the Garudeshwargauging stationlocated about 14km downstream of the Sardar SarovarDam
and rainfall stations located throughout the river basin. Flow measurements started at
Garudeshwarin 1948and rainfall data has beenrecorded since 1891. The flow estimatesprepared


        1      The Borrower is of the opinion that thm is w risk for the main anal to empty the dun in lcss time than
               rcbadulad.

                                                                            A n u a l
                                                                            Page 3 of 9.

by the NWDT and agreed by the riparian states were based on 79 years of observed and generated
flows from 1891to 1970. Subsequentanalysis of flows were made by a consultantfirm (ORG)
on behalf of NPG and the Bank appraisal team. The consultant used a series of observed flows
from 1948to 1978forthe dam operation simulation studieswhile the Bank'shydrologist based his
analysison an intermediateseriesof 54 years based of observedand generated flowsfrom 1925to
1978. The Bank's rainfall-moff regression analysis was based on 21 years of observed flows
from 1958to 1978. Recently, these estimates were updated by the Central Water Commission
overa seriesof generatedand observedflowsfrom 1891to 1990.

7.      The results of the above analysis regarding Gujarat's 75% dependable share of 9 MAF
(32.14%), as determined by the NWDT on the basis of 28 MAF total utilizable flow, is
summarized asfollows:

               Statistical Analysis of Gujarat's Share of Narmada Waters

                                                    75% Dependable       . 50% Dependable
                                                       Mm3                    Mm3

NWDTUtilizable flow (1)                             11,100(9.0 MAF)              -
NWDT 1891-1970Series(2)                             10,789 (8.7 MAF)          13,961(11.3MAF)
ORG 1948-1978Series(3)                              9,276 (7.5 MAF)           12914(10.5 MAF)
Bank 1925-1978Series(4)                             11,326 (9.2 MAF)          14,460(11.7 MAF)
CWC 1891-1990Series(5)                              10,545 (8.6MAF')          13,083(10.6 MAF)

(1)River flows+Return flows(10%) Carryoverin uls Storage- Evaporation losses
                                      +
(2)Generated flowsup to 1948and observed flowsthereafter
(3) Observed flows only
(4) Observed and generated flows
(5)Generatedflowsup to 1948and observed flowsthereafter

8.      As can be seen, the ORG seriesgives a yield about 18%and 11%lowerthan the Bank's
estimates for the 75% and 50%dependable flows, respectively. In fact, the Bank's hydrologist
had judged the30-year ORGseries to be too shortand not representativeasit contained too many
dry years. Therefore, he preferred to use a longer series of 54 years based on generated and
observed flows. The ORG series also shows some shortcomings when compared to the more
recent CWC series which contains 43 years of actual data . One can therefore conclude that the
ORG series was not sufficiently representative. If the ORG series is excluded from the
comparison, the other seriesarequiteconsistentand allwithin acceptablemarginsof errorof 5.096
for the 75%dependableflows when compared to theNWDT figurewhich was used for sizingthe
project. This margin of erroris much smallerthan the 10% to 15%margin of error made on the
water requirementestimates. It canthereforebe concluded without doubt that the 11,100Mm3 (9
MAF) fued by theNWDT can be used forplanningpurposes.

9.      With regard to the accuracyof flow measurements, several methods have been used since
the creation of the Garudeshwar gauging station in 1948. At present, the station consists of: (i)
threecross sectionslocated at 75 mintervalswithin a straightand well defined sectionof a rocky
riverbed, (ii) a multi-span bridge about 800 m long located about 700 m downstream of the
previous cross sections, and (iii) a cross section about 150 m downstream of the bridge. The
flows were initially measured by the float method and in 1961floats were replaced by current
meter measwments. At present, the flow measunementsare made asfollows: (a)when the river is
low, the velocity is measured by current meter in the first cross sections from an outboard motor
boat, (b) when the velocity increases, the measurements are made by current meter from the
downstream side of the bridge, and (c)when the velocitiesexceed 3.5 mls, the measurementsare
made by float between the bridge and the downstream cross section. In 1970, the bridge was
washed away by an exceptionalfloodand had to be reconstructed. On that occasion, the accuracy

                                                                                        A n w d
                                                                                        Page 4 of 9    .

of the gauging station was thoroughly rechecked and recalibrated by comparing discharges
measured by float and current meter at various cross sections. The rating curves and flow
coefficientswere set and no discrepancieswere observed in theflow measurements.

Reservoir Operation Studies2

10.      A probabilityanalysisof water availabilityfor various componentsof SSP was canied out
by ORG taking into consideration various stages of development. This analysiswas done on the
basis of 10-daily flows for the period June to November and of monthly flows for December to
May, covering the 30-year series of observed flows then available. The Bank's hydrologist
believed that the adopted series introduced a conservativebias into the operation studies since it
yields a lower average flow than suggested by the Bank's estimated long-term series. Some
correctivefactorswere therefore introducedin thecalculations. This belief may be less valid today
in the light of CWC's long-term series.

11.     Sincereservoir operationsand reservoiryields are closely related to upstream abstractions
and regulative capacity, fivedistinctstagesof developmentwere defined in theORG studies: three
of which are based on the NWDTs projected time-frame for developmentwhile the two others
assumed a slower pace of developmentparticularly for the first years of operation of SSP (Stage 1)
and when Gujarat and Rajasthan are at full development but MP remains at an early stage of
development in terms of abstractionsand regulative capacity (Stage 3).

12.     The simulation studies showed that the availability of the 75% dependable share water
under the given 30-year runoff series falls short of the allocations as projected by the NWDT.
Gujarat, for instance could use only about 10,440 Mm3 of its share water at full basin
development,whereas the NWDTs allocation is 11,100 Mm3 at 75% dependability. This result
would tend to demonstratethat other development options need to be studied and the simulation
studiesrefined. As expected, power generation at the RBPH dimhishes dramaticallytowards full
development and unavoidable spills also decrease over the stages. Groundwater extraction
increasesroughly in proportion to projected irrigationuse.

13.     A scenario in which NSP is delayed for the early stages of development resulted in a
substantialshortfallof power generation (-25%), a doubling of spills and a shift of power genera-
tion from dry season to rainy season. Gujarat's share of water would drop by about 20% and
inigated area would decline by about the sameamount. Though this case appearsmore theoretical
now that the construction of the NSP dam has been awarded and the Bargi hydro-power project
now releases from 160to 220 cumecs during the dry season, there is still a risk that NSP will be
substantiallydelayed and that the releasesfrom Bargi will be reduced over time due to irrigation
development.

14.     TheORG simulation studies have somelimitationsdue to: (a) the rather optimisticdevelop
ment scenarios,(b) therather shorthydrological seriesin view of the large variabilityof theNarrna-
da discharges, (c) thechangesin the cropping pattern that are occurring due to the liberalization of
the economy, (d) the inadequacy of crop water requirements held constant on the basis of 50%
dependablerainfall in the command, and (e) the fact that releases of water downstream to control
the ecology in the estuary was not considered. It is believed that the simulationof upstream deve-
lopment should be refined as MP's plans for water use and its development schedule are now
becoming better known. In particular, the power generation aspects in MP and reuse of return
flows upstream should be furtherstudied, together with a more detailed modeling of all reservoirs
in the upstream modeL Ideally, the studies should be integrated into a basin-wide reservoir mana-
gement model which would allow fine-tuning of reservoir operation policies and rule curves for
real-time operation. The objectiveof the operation would be to satisfy all party states' individual


        2       Detailedd t r of thcv studies a n be follad in the SDV Volume 1. Amex 3 'Sufoce Watcr Rcooraces'

                                                                                      A t l w d
                                                                                       Page 5 of 9

demands, and simultaneouslyto optimize the benefits from Narmada water basin-wide over any
given year. Special emphasisshould be given to the operation during the critical build-up and
drought periods.

15.     For the above reasons, SSNNLofficialshave requested ORG to carry out new simulation
studiesbased on more recent hydrological data and revised water requirementfor hydro-power,
inigation,M&I and upstmm and downstreamenvironmentalmitigation measures. Theserevised
studiesshould be based on the decisionsof the NWDTconcerningwater allocationsand the height
of the dam and also on the fact that the main canal up to Mahi has alreadybeen constructed. The
variables of the revid studies would be the amount of power generation, the releases of water
downstream and the sizeof the command area                               -
Water Availability

16.     In its present configuration, SSP is not a water-rich project. In broad terms, the yearly
water resourcdwaterqseestimatesfor Gujaratat full developmentcan be crudely summarizedas
follows:

        a.     WaterAvailability
                                                                                       (Mm3)
               "UtilizableFlow"at Sardar SarovarDam                      11,100                  13,8003
               Groundwaterat various locations                            2,960                   3,700
               En-Route rivers                                           -    320                    400

               Total                                                     14,380                  17,900

        b .    Water Requirementsat Headworks

               IrrigatedAgriculture
               Municipal& IndustrialUses

               Total

17.    The inigationwater requirementshave been estimatedin the SAR on the basis of average
rainfalls, a CCA of 1.87 M ha, an irrigation intensity of 106% (SDV Annex 10,Table 9) and a
water useefficiency of 48% for surfacewater and 60% for public tubewellirrigation (see Water
Delivery and Drainage SAR p.61, para.9.20). In addition, the SAR kept crop water requirements
to a minimum by assuming that farmers will use only 90%of the estimated average water
requirements (SDV, Annex 10, para. 10). On the basis of these assumptions, the average water
requirements are expected to be met. However, a rapid estimate of the 75% dependable water
requirementscarried out by the PCR showsthat at full developmentthere is likely to be an overall


       3       CWC1891-1990 Saia Vergin Fbws
                                     -                                        13.083 Urn3
               Return flow + clny o v a evaporation losrr (+5.3%)
                                       -                                      4
               u-       Flow                                                    13.776 M m 3 say 13,800 M m 3

       4       Not calculated in SAR wr in my suboequent repom such as "Planningfor Prosperity'. Tbe rapid
               a h a t e of the 75%&pWk wata requirementhas been obtrirvd by inumsiag tbc average water
               requirement by 109b.

               Average water requirementshave becn derived from SDV Anaex 10. Tabk 11

               FA0 rrcommends to w tbe effective rainfall for pluming imgation requkemenb, i.e.. tbc 8096
               &padable rainfall rotber thm tbc 509b depcndabk ninfall .rhas been done in tbc SAR. 'Ibe difference
               between ktwo figures can be rigaiflcu~tin drought-prone area ruch at Gujuat

                                                                                   ADnGd
                                                                                    Page 6 of 9

water shortage of about 23% when compared to the75% water availability7. Though there is some
difficulty in estimating precisely water requirements 20 years from now, this difference appears
quite high The shortageof water is recognized in the Bank documentswhich state: "The amount
of water available is not large in relation to the area to be served" (SDV, Annex 1,para.. 4.26) and
"Even at full irrigation development,some crops would still be grown under rainfed conditions"
(SDV, Annex 10,para. 13).

18.     The actual shortage of water at full development may be more severe than indicated. The
above table does not take into account spills at Sardar Sarovar Dam during the rainy season,
downstream releases during the dry season for environmental reasons and power generation, if
any, at full development. A more realistic assumption of water requirementsat fulldevelopment
should take intoconsideration these factorsand thepossibilitythat SSP in its presentconfiguration
may use more water thanestimated in the SAR There is consequently a risk that Gujarat will
requiremore than its shareof 9.0 MAF before the NWDTaward might be revised in 20248.

Revised Operation Studies

19.     Though the review of the project hydrology and water resources was not part of the
benchmarks, the Bank in consultationwith the Borrower engaged a consulting fm to assist the
Borrower in preparing a statusnote on the validity of the issuesraised by the IndependentReview
and their likely impact on project perfonnance9. The findingsof the consultants' report, "Sardar
Sarovar Project Hydrology and Water Resowces" of May 1993, are summarizedbelow.

20.     Simplified operationalstudiesfor the SSPwere carried out by consultantsto determinethe
supplyldemand match during the 1948-1990period of observed flow records. In doing so, the
consultant made reasonable assumptionswith respect to upstream uses in MP and groundwater
availabilityin the command area. In particular, they assumed, based on availabledocumentation,
that by 2024 MP's level of demand willbe more likely between 12,000and 18,000 Mm3 (10 and
15 MAF) than the 22,800 Mm3 (18.5 MAF) indicated by the NWDT. Thus,a level of 16,000
Mm3 (13MAF) was assumed by the consultants. The results of the simplified operational studies
are summarizedbelow.

21.    From 1995to 2005, between the early years of development and completion of the SSP
command area as pnseatly planned, theSardarSarovardam alonewillbe sufficientto provide the
necessary regulation and storage to supply the irrigation and D,M&I demands of the project.
However, from about 2000, as the SSP and upstream demands build up, the risk of shortages in
the drier years increasesprogressively. A ten-year &lay in the construction of the Narmada Sagar
Dam, which assumescompletionby 2002, will have littleimpact on irrigation and DM&I but will
reduce power generation. Provision of a lower level irrigation bypass tunnel, as recommendedby
the Bank, to increaselive storage, will allow increased flexibility during dry years. Beyond year
2005, the Nannada Sagarreservoir becomes a necessity if the command area developsas planned.

22.    Fromtoto, completionoftheSSPcommandareaandthedateofrevision
                              between
of the Tribunal award, the increase in demand comesprimarily from upstream development in MP
and Maharashtm At this level of development, the DM&I demandscan be met every year, except


       7        Borrower does mt accept thc wnclucion that tkcmay k a wata hortrge of .bout 23% for thc 75%
                dependable year.

       8        Tbe Bomwa f a b that this rtrtement is incomdr k NCA will monitor the we of water by thc
                riparianstab .rper tbe NWDT award.

       9        Tbc wnsultawy wu lbdout of ODA Trust Fundf ut .ride to assist thc Borrower in meeting tbe
                knchmPrkr fued by tbe Board by Match 31. 1993.

                                                                                       A l u L l
                                                                                       Page 7 of 9

in the severest droughts such as that of 189911900. The kharif crops demand can be met with a
100% dependability except in the severest drought year, and the rabi crops, with a 90%
dependability. The lowerlevel irrigation bypass tunnel would ensure that at least these demands
are met in full.

23.     m,thekharif           cropsdemand will be met with a 80% dependability and the rabi crops
with a 85% dependability. However, in the long-tern, if MP and Maharashtramake use of their
full allocations, the frequency impact on the kharif crop will remain about the same but the
proportion of years inwhich the rabi demand can bemet in full fallsto between 50-6096.

24.     Theaboveresultsneed to bemoderated by thefollowingobservations: Consultantsmade
several assumptionsin their simplified operationalstudies which arefavorableto the project. In
particular, they used the NPG figures from "Planning for Prosperityw(PFP) of November 1989
and not the SAR figuresfor irrigated areasand irrigationefficiencies which affectto a largeextent
water requirements. The differencebetween thetwo are as follows.

                                                   PEE                        SBB

CCA                                                 2.12 M. ha (1)             1.86 M. ha (2)
Kharif Crops                                      23.8 96 (3)                28.0 96 (4)
Rabi Crops                                        29.1 %                     34.0 96
SummerCrops                                         1.8 %                      7.0 96
2 Seasonals                                       28.0 96                    34.0 96
Perenids                                            1.7 96                     3.0 96
IrrigationIntensity(Total)                        84.4 96                   106.0 96
IrrigationEfficiency (SurfaceWater)               60.0 96 (5)                48.0 96 (6)
Irrigation EfEciency (Groundwater)                67.0 %                     60.0 %
Inigation Effciency (Overall)                     61.8 96                    51.0 96

(1) PFP p. 254
(2) SDV, Annex 10,Table 11
(3)These and thefollowingfiguresbased on PFPp. 24-25 and p. 258-259.
(4) These and the following figuresbased on SDV, Annex 10,Table9.
(5) These and the followingfigum based on Consultants report p. 23.
(6) These and the followingfigures based on SAR,p.61, pm9.20.


25.     As can be noted, the SAR assumptions are premised on a smaller CCA than the PFP by
about 1296and on a higher irrigationintensityby about 26%. In terns of total irrigated area, the
SAR level is 11%larger than the PFP. With regard to overallirrigation efficiencies,the PFP is
10.8% points higher than the SAR. Thesedifferenceslead to a higher water requirement for the
SAR when compared to that of PFP by at least 10% for the irrigated area and 20 96 for the
efficiencieswhich translatesintoa differenceof about 3,150M m 3 (2.6 MAF). Both PFP and the
SARwhen estimatingthe cropwater requirementsbase their calculationson averagerainfall rather
than on effectiverainfall mommended by FAO. In addition, the SAR applied a 0.9 coefficientto
itscalculationsto accommodate the likelihood that farmerswillunder-irrigatetheircrops. Thus the
actualirrigationwater requirementsare likely to be higher than the SARestimateslo.

26.     Finally, the consultantsin their operational studieshas not considered the most likely need
to release water downstream of the Sardar SarovarDam to controlthe adverseimpacts of salinity
inuusion during the dry season and the pollution that will result from the industrializationand the


        10      'IbeBorrowerfeek that thiE wbok     rbould be .mended as it disagreer witb the assumption tbu water
                requirements have been under-eatimad

                                                                                         AxuEd
                                                                                         Page 8 of 9

return flows from irrigation. The same consultantsare studying these aspects in gkater detail as
part of a command area Environmental Impact Assessment which is planned to be completed by
December 1994.

Risk Analysis

27.     The water requirementsusedby the consultantsare likely to be underevaluated by about
30%. When taking into accountthe necessarycorrections,the project as currently designed will
face growing and significant shortages of water as the demand upstream builds and Gujarat is
likely to require more than its share at full development. To avoid that such a situationdevelops,
several options could be considered by Gujarat: (i) hope for an increased allocation when the
Tribunalis reopened; (ii)cut back on theirrigation of rabi cropsand give more importanceto kharif
irrigated crops; (iii) reduce the size of the command areall; or (iv) gradually pursue greater
efficiency through sprinklerand drip irrigation techniques. The last option willrequire additional
investmentsin infrastructureand on farm development. Sincecutting back on irrigationislikely to
be resisted by fanners, thebest option initially,which isimmediatelyfeasible,would be to develop
the command area graduallyby giving priority in the early years to: (a) the areas yielding the best
returns, (b) the developmentof sprinkler and drip irrigation, and (c) D,M&I in the areas lesssuited
for irrigation. Given the low rate of return from the least economic parts of the command and the
high economic value of D,M&I water, this optionislikely to improveeconomic returns. Recogni-
zing the limits of their quick analysis, the consultantsrecommended that these defects should be
addressedin the updating of theoperationalmodel that NPG isdoing with the assistance of ORG.

28.     Even assuming that the water availability and size of the command 'area have been
matched, to reduce the risk of SSP not operating as planned, strict water-use policies must be
established, closely monitored and enforced by NCA particularly during the build-up period 12. It
seems that the detailed rules for conjunctive use have not yet been worked out or groundwater
integrated in the design of the initial 52irrigationblocks. In addition, it appearsthat no agEment
exists between Gujarat and MP on water-use and allocations among power, irrigation and M&I
during the.intermediatedevelopment stages. A logical decision would be that: (i) M&I gets first
priority, (ii) surfacewater releasesfor irrigationare strictly proportionalto the area developed, (iii)
irrigation releases are made first through the CHPH and second through the CHPH and theIBPT
when thedemand is higher than thecapacity of the CHPH, and (iv) the balance of water available
should be used for,,powergeneration throughtheRBPH. A policy decision is also required on the
sharing of spills and downstream releases in the rainy and dry seasonsfor environmental misons.

29.     In addition, as there willbe excesswater in the early stages of SSP development, SSNNL
authorities must determine the water use policies that will apply to the various parts of the
command area particularly with regard to the developmentof groundwaterfor conjunctiveuse. If
such policiesare not established well in advanceand distributionsystemsdesigned and constructed
accordingly, the command areaup to Mahi             -which will    be the first to receive water and which has
the largest groundwaterresources         -will  take more than its share and thus deprive the more remote
command areas of Saurashtraand Kutchl3. An agreement would also need to be reached on the
level and construction of the IBPT, which should enhance the water availability but at the risk of
Gujarat taking more than its shareof water.


        11       Tbe Borrower empbrri that tbe pluming of tbe w m d arm hu been b u d on socioeconomic
                 wmidcsrtiom. taking hb account tbc fact th.1tbe Qought prone   UC.M should be provided with
                 deqrutc water. It concluder that tbeqwtion of nxlucing the wmmmd uu dar not uiK.

        12       Tbe Borrower obsemer th.1as NCA has been wndtutcd b monitor water docations b riparianstates,
                 there is no question of SSP not operating as plumed.

        13       Tbe Borrower believer that ~ c situationsm y not arir with the planned control volume wacept and
                                                   b
                 farmers' participation.

                                                                                        AMcLl
                                                                                        Page 9 of 9


Conclusion

30.     The above points tend to demonstrate that while the basic hydrological data are correct,
simulation studiesneed to be further r e f d to establish more accurately the magnitudeof regulated
flows obtainable from the Sardar Sarovar reservoir, the groundwater availability in various
locationsand the en route rivers. Most of the existingstudies tend to show that SSPin its present
configurationmay not be able to satisfy the 75%dependabilitycriterion beyond 2025and there is a
real risk that Gujarat will require more than its share at full developmentl4. Consequently, the
project may not functionas planned unless the actionsare implemented to: (i) defme the real time
water allocations policies among the various users within the framework of the NWDT, i.e.,
between irrigation, M&I, power, upstream and downstream requirements, (ii) define the
groundwater developmentand conjunctiveuse policiesin thevarious regions of the command, (iii)
refine the ground water models to determine the quantity of groundwater usable and amount of
mining possible for each project location, (iv) refine the river flow and dam operation simulation
model based on realistic development scenariosand updated water flow;groundwater availability
and water requirements, (v) review the water-use policies and the design of the distribution net-
works on the basis of findings from the simulation model, (vi) proceed with the required
adjustments in the initial project design, wherever still possible, and (vii) revise the economic
analysison the basis of the proposed adjustments.

31.     Finally, the PCR concludesthat, with the revisions from the above additionalstudies SSP
will be a soundproposition, not only from a socialpoint of view, but also from environmentaland
economicpoints of view.




       14      The Borrowerthinks that it ispremature to conclude that SSPmay not function as plmed d,
                                                                                                     tbmfore,
               the rt~mmendationsfor improvemeat ur uaclllod for.

                                                                               -LuuwL
                                                                               Page 1of 22

                              PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                                INDIA

                             NARMADA IUVER DEVELOPMENT
                     WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
                                         (Credit 1553-IN)


                  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MANAGEMENT



Project Background and Environmental Context

1.      As part of the preparation and appraisal of theWater Delivery and DrainageProject, several
studies were carried out by the Government of Gujarat (GOG) to examine the environmental
impacts of the project in the command area. These related primarily to standard irrigation and
drainage studies and their impact on water quality, groundwater, waterlogging and salinity. At the
time the project was being prepared and appraised, the environmental regulatory regime in India
and the Bank's operational guidance mechanisms with respect to environment were still being
formulated,or were in the early stages of implementation The Guidelinesprevailing at the time of
project Negotiations(November 1984) and Board Pmentation (March 1985)were those contained
in Operational Manual Statement(OMS) 2.36 issuedin May 1984entitled "EnvironmentalAspects
of Bank Work".



2.      OMS 2.36 recognized that the Bank's environmental policy was still evolving.
Nevertheless, the basic environmental concerns and principles for processing projects were well
covered. In particular, OMS 2.36 required that projects with unavoidable adverse effects on the
environment should contain a compensatory component adequate to mitigate these effects. It
indicated that, at the identification stage, these projects should be identified and the investigations
needed to prevent or mitigate the adverse effects should be determined. During prepaxtion, the
Borrower was to c h q out the necessary enquiries and the Bank staff was to outline in the Project
Brief the measures needed to avoid or mitigate serious environmental risks or enhance
environmental benefits, and point out any problems that merited further studies at this stage. At
appraisal, the Staff was to assess the environmental findings, evaluate the future magnitude and
timing of adverse effects, and assess whether the preventive, mitigatory, or remedial measures
recommended were adequate. The SAR was to describe the environmental measures being
provided. At Negotiations, the environmentalaspectswere to be discussed with the Borrower and
the legal Agreements could contain covenants or other provisions concerned with these aspects.
Finally, OMS 2.36 indicated that supenrisionmissions were to routinely review the environmental
aspects with the Borrower and must ensure that the measures agreed upon were adequately and
responsibly administered.

3.      Thereafter, the Bank issued in October 1989 Operational Directive 4.00 which Annex A
was on "Environmental Assessment". Annex A outlines the Bank's policy and procedures for the
environmental assessment (EA) lending operations, and related types of environmental analysis.
The purpose of EA is to ensure that the development options under consideration are
environmentally sound and sustainable, and that any environmental consequences are recognized
early in the project cycle and taken into account in the project design. The Annex states that the
detail and sophisticationof the analysisshould be commensuratewith the expected impactsand that
therecould be either project-specific EAs or regional and sectoralEAs. It recommends institutional

                                                                             JliMELL
                                                                             Page 2 of 22


strengthening,staff training, involvement of affected groups and NGOs, and, for major projects
with seriousmulti-dimensionalenvironmentalconcerns, the recruitment of an Environmental
Advisory Panel of independent, internationally recognized, environment specialiststo review and
advise on, inter-alia, the TOR and findings of the EA. Each project is to be screened in four
categories, from A to D based upon the nature, magnitude, and sensistivity of environmental
issues. Category A, under which the SSP project falls, requires the preapration of a detailed EA
prior to appraisal and the incorporation of an environmental annex summarizing the EA in the
SAR. The Annex specifiesthat the detailed EA shouldcompriseinter alia a mitigation plan and a
monitoring plan to be carried out during project implementation. Further, Category A projects
requires a formal clearance from the Regional Environment Division before Negociations can
proceed.

4.      In July 1991, the Bank published an Environmental Assessment Sourcebook in three
volumes to provide guidance throughoutthe EA process described in OD 4.00. This Sourcebook
is quite comprehensive and provides checklists, outlines and samples for a number of typical
environmentalstudiesand EAs.

5.      Finally, on October 1991the Bank issued OperationalDirective 4.01 to replace OMS 2.36
that confirms the policies and guidelinesprovided in Annex A of OD 4.00 and the Sourcebook.
Thus the Bank policies and procedures became more stringent between Board Presentation and
Project Completion. In a way, the SAR was ahead of its time as it specified that the Borrower
(NPG)was to prepare, during project implementation, a detailedenvironmentalassessmentand
necessary actions for protective measures for thecommand areaas well as an afforestationplan for
thecommand area, includingspecialzoneuse. TheLegal Documentsrequired that Gujaratshould
take all such meausresas shall be necessary to minimizethe riskof malaria, filaria, schistosomasis,
and other water-relayed dideases that may result from the implementation of the project1 but
omitted to mension theneed to prepare a detailedEA within a fixedtimeframe.

      Borrower's                       P ~ IClea-

6.      In India, meanwhile, a similarevolutionaryprocesswas underway with respectto environ-
mental management Several nationalcommitteeshad analyzedaspectsof India's deterioratingezo-
logy, particularly adverse impacts on forestcover and made recommendationsfor mitigation mea-
sures. These culminated,among other things, in the establishment of a Department of Environ-
ment and Forests (DOEF) in the Central Government and the issuing of the Forest Conservation
Act in 1980. Under this Act, clearance from the DOEF became mandatory for all development
projects. The Ministry of Irrigation also published in 1980 Guidelines for the Preparation of
Detailed Project Reports of Irrigation and MultipurposeProjects which contained guidelinesfor
environmental analysis. However, it was not until 1985that the growing public environmental
awarenessand concern resultedin forceN action at theCenter; in January 1985,a new Ministry of
Environment and Forests (MOEF) was established, and the Prime Minister assumed the portfolio.
Among its responsibilities,the new ministry was charged with environmentalclearance of selected
developmentprojects. In 1986, the Governmentof India passed the Environmental (Protection)
Act, 1986, empowering the Central Government to take necessary measures for protecting the
quality of theenvironment and requiring environmentalclearancefor all developmentprojects.

7.      Prior to project approval by the Bank's Board in 1985,a number of environmentalstudies
were prepared by the Borrower to access the environmental impacts and obtain the internal
required forest clearance for theDam and PowerProject. However, theforest clearancewas not




        1       Gujarat h j e c t Agrcemcnf Section 2.16 of May 10. 1985.

                                                                               AIlIwa
                                                                               Page 3of 22

given and more studies were to be prepared. Nevertheless, the two Nannada projects were
approved by the Bank's Board in March 1985and became effectiveon January 6,1986 without a
formal forest clearancefrom theMOEF. Finally, a conditionalenvironmentalclearance was given
in of June 24, 1987 subject to the completion of several environmental studies relating to: (i)
rehabilitation master plan, (ii) phased area catchment treatment scheme, (iii) compensatory
afforestation plan, (iv) command area development, (v) survey of flora and fauna, (vi) carrying
capacity of surrounding areas, (vi) seismicity, and (vii) health aspects. The letter noted that
existing surveys were incomplete and full details would have to be submitted by 1989as per an
agreed schedule. It also indicated that the Niumada Conml Authority (NCA) "willensure that
environmentalsafeguard measuresare planned and implementedpari pasu with progress of work
on projects." Finally, theletter made it clearthat the release of forest landsfor theproject would be
subjectto the Forest Conservation Act of 1980and to prior approvalby the MOEF.

8.      Subsequently,on September8, 1987the MOEF gave the requisite forest clearancewhich
applied mostly to the submergence of forest land by the Sardar Sarovar dam under the Dam and
Power project. Finally, in October 1988, the Government of India Planning Commission also
gave its formal endorsement to the project, again subject to several conditions relating to
environmentaswell as R&R

9.      TheBank's appraisalreport and legal agreementsalso dealtwith environmental aspects of
the Water..Defiveryand Drainage project in the following ways: the SAR and Supplementary
Volumes contained a summary discussion of the project's environmental impact focussing
particularly on: (a)longtermeffectsof potentialgroundwaterrise;(b) longterm self-accumulation
in the root-zone; (c) proliferationof aquatic weeds in canalsand project area; (d) proliferation of
water-borne diseases; (e) effect of fertilizer, pesticides and insecticides on surface and
groundwater; (f) afforestationprogram in the command area; and (g) other effects on wildlife.
(SAR p. 18and SupplementaryVolume I,Annex 1,pages 55to 56). TheSAR also gives a list of
studies to be carried out by the NPG as part of the environmental work plan to be prepared by
December 1985. Theseinclude, inter alia,the preparation of a detailed environmentalassessment
and necessary actionsfor protectivemeasures forthe commandarea (SARp.18 and Table 1p.82).

10.     The Legal Documentscontainedthefollowingenvironmentalcovenants:

        a                    P.V                                     Rojezt Description, Schedule 2,
                Part B called for the implementation of a suitable training program for staff in
                environmentalsciencesand mitigationmeasm;

                &
        b.                                                                    Section2.02 (d)called
                                                                              1985,and Section 2.16
                required Gujarat to take all measures to minimize risk of malaria, filaria,
                schistosomiasisand otherwater-related diseases.

        However, there was no specificcovenantson the preparation of an EnvironmentalImpact
Assessment and implementationof mitigatingmeasures forthe command area despitethe factthat
the need for such studieshad been coveredin the SAR.

Project Implementation

11.     The project was regularly supervised at six-monthly intervals by Bank missions from
inception to Credit closure. From 1985 to 1987, the Bank put pressure on GO1 to give
environmentalclearanceso that construction works could start. The clearance came on June24,
1987. The fxst Bank review of the environment componentwas made in October 1988and, as
the project was not performing well on several fronts, the Bank and the Borrower signed a
Memorandum of Understanding in December 1988 which stated that: (i) a comprehensive
environmental frameworkand its subsequentinstitutionalizationin the concerned statesshould be
prepared, (ii) studies on fisheries, forest,wildlife and health should be initiated or completed,(iii)

                                                                             JixUEzL
                                                                              Page 4 of 22

appoint an EnvironmentalDirector at the newly created SSNNL, (iv) an Environment Cell should
be created in the DOEF to monitor the activities of SSP, and (v) an expatriate environmental
consultant should be recruited to assist the Environmental Cell in preparing the environmental
framework stipulated in the legal documents. However,the meeting also agreed that in view of the
creationof the Environmental Cellit would not be necessary to engage an environmentalspecialist
in NCA. It should be noted that none of these studieswere directly related to the command area

12.     The Bank commissioned in 1987an overview of the environmentalaspects of the project.
Release of this report was delayed to 1989. It made a number of recommendations, in particular
that theBank shouldintensifyits supervisionand enter into supplementalagreementsto strengthen
the environmentalaspects of the project. The report stressed the need to defrne better the usable
groundwaterresources, determinetherechargequantitiesand develop techniques to control water
table levels successfully in order to mitigate the impact of surface water irrigation and reduce the
effectsof water-logging. The policies for conjunctiveusewould also need to be sharpened.

13.     On March 31,1989 the CreditClosingDatewas extended by three months and then by one
year to July 1, 1990subjectto conditionsrelating to the release of land for R&R in Maharashtra,
R&R policies to be in line with the NWDT award and otherconditionsrelating to rotational water
supply. An EnvironmentalReviewcanied outin April 1989indicated that thespecified time-based
environmental framework was yet to start and its absence was hampering the monitoring of
environmentalstudies. It recommended in an action letter to DEA and MOWR that a consultantbe
recruited as per agreed TOR forpreparing the environmentalwork plan. It alsorecommended that
the plan should be completed before institutionalizingtheenvironmentalcomponentswithin NCA,
DOEF and the three states. The mission recognized that some progress had been made on the
studieson fsheries, compensatory affostation and archeology,but none on health.

14.     Anotherenvironmentalreview mission took place in December 1989. It observed that the
environmentalwork plan that was originaUy duein December 1985wasstillnot started and that the
staffing of NCA and SSNNLenvironmentalcells was still inadequate. It urged the Borrower to
approach USAID to assistin thepreparation of the work plan and made severalsuggestionson the
studies relating to: (i) compensatory afforestation which should include habitat and linkageswith
natural m e s , (ii)catchmentareatreatment, (iii)wildlife in the submergencearea, (iv) upstream
and downstream fisheries, and (v) archeological aspects. Again, no reference was made to
command area The action letter to MOWR of December 13,1989 which stipulatedthe conditions
for a second one-year extension of the Credit beyond July 1,1990 emphasized the R&R aspects
that should be met, such as the release of land in Maharashtra for R&R, but made no reference to
the pending preparation of theenvironmentalwork plan.

15.     The May 1990 environmental supervision report indicated that the preparation of the
environmental work plan had made no progress. However, the Annex on Status of Compliance
with Covenantsindicatedthat the covenantrelating to the work plan was in full compliance. The
report also indicated that the position of Member Environment in NCA was still not filled. The
supervision mission determinedthat the conditionsrelating to R&R had been met and particularly
that 2,700 ha of forest at Taloda had been released for theresettlementof ousteesin Maharashtra;
as a result, theproject wasextended for an other year to July 1991.

16.     In June 1991 the environmental supervision mission paid particular attention to the
progress made on compensatory afforestation, catchment area treatment, wildlife, fisheries,
archeology, health, training and NCA. It indicated that environmentaltraining was yet to start in
spite of the recommendationsof a mission on R&R and environmentaltraining. It also observed
that the Environment Member of NCA had been posted recently, but that this organizationhad no
clear program and was not effective in coordinating and integrating environmental studies. The
June 8,1991 action letteremphasized the need to prepare and implementan environmental training
program. At that time, the Narmada Basin Development project was under discussion with the
three implementingstates. Its objectivewas to carry outenvironmentalprotection measures around

                                                                             AhmdL
                                                                             Page 5 of 22


the SardarSarovarand Nannada Sagar dams and to improve the livingconditionsof the tribal and
rural people living in those areas.

17.     In July 1991,the projectwas extended for a third and last year on the basis of theprogress
made in the civil works component and also in the implementationof the R&R component of the
Dam and Powerproject The January 1992supervisionmission, which included for the first time
a malaria specialist, observed that there was no specific anti-malariaprogram for the project and
that the incidence of malaria had increased in the villages surrounding the dam constructionsite.
He also stressed that the Public Health Servicewas not geared to meet the special needs of the
project and that a Heath Cell should be established in SSNNL.

18.     During the period that preceded the closureof the project and as a result of the commis-
sioning of an Independent Review of the SSP project, the Bank recruited an Environmental
Specialist to assist SSNNL in preparing an environmental impact assessment (EIA) for the
command area in view of a possible Phase I1 of the Water Delivery and Drainage project. The
consultant then published a EnvironmentalInformationVolume which listed and summarized the
large number of existing or ongoing studies and proposed a work program for the preparation of
the command areaEIA. Thiseffort and the presence of the Independent Review Team helped in
focussingthe Borrower's attentionon theenvironmentalaspectsof the project.

19.     The last supervision mission conducted in August 1992,immediatelyafter theclosure of
the project on July 2, 1992determined that neither the environmentalwork plan nor the malaria
controlaction plan requested by the previousmission had still not been formulated.

Independent Review Report

20.     The IndependentReview Team began itsfield work in September 1991and published and
circulatedits finalreport in June 1992. It contains seven chapters dealingwith environment. The
report includesan analysisof the legal background and statusof compliance. It observesthat by
the end of 1988, all required apements had been reached between the GOI, .the States, the
implementing agenciesand the Bank to ensurethat an adequate assessment of the environmental
impactof the SardarSarovarProjectswould bemade by 1989. However,it notes that by the time
of the review, most of the Bank's 1985legal requirements and most of the conditionsattached to
the DOEFenvironmental clearance had not been met and concludes that, by any standards, this
ought to be unacceptable. The report alsocriticksthe "paripasu" approach which subverts any
acceptable notion of ecological planning and defeats the purpose of preparing environmental
assessments to anticipate and prevent impacts and incorporate remedial measures into project
design.

21.      After giving some background information on the project design,the report analyzes in
more detail the major environmentalaspects of the project including soil irrigability,water-logging,
salinity, drainage and conjunctive use. It notes that several good studieshave been prepared by
consultants working on the fust reach of the main canal up to the Mahi River, but pre-feasibility
studiesbeyond the Mahi indicate that serioussoil and water-logging problems will be encountered
in the coastal Bhal areas, in the north Gujarat areas as well as along the Saurashtra and Kutch
branches. In those areas,canal irrigationislikely to result in serioussoil degradation particularly
in the agro-climaticregions where deep black cotton and salinesoils prevail. It noted that water-
logging,salinityand drainageproblems had not yet been addt.essedthrough adequate drainageand
groundwaterstudies as evidenced by the Bank's own supervision mission reports. It also states
that though conjunctive use is proposed to be one of the most important mitigative measures to
counteract water-logging in the command area, the detailed information needed relating to water
quality, mixing regimes and private sector pumping was not yet available. It concludesthat some
good work has been done on specific topics in the fust part of the command area, but it does not
meet the requirements of a good environmental assessment and in the end, this project is likely to
perpetratethe deficienciesnoted in past projects.

                                                                                -
                                                                                Page 6 of 22

  22.     On health aspects, the report states that by the time of the project appraisal the dangers of
  water-borne diseases in irrigation projects were well known and documented particularly those
  related to malaria and schistosomiasis. The report quotes a status report on malaria and other
  health-related aspects prepared by the Bank's consultant in January 1992 which states that the
  project has been planned, designed and executed without incorporation of health safeguardsand
  that thelevels of malaria in villagesnear the dam sitewere nearly doublethose of theother villages
  served by the health center in that rn The report concludesthat the Bank and the state govem-
  ments had failed to addressadequatelythe issue of public health.

  Management Response

  23.     In July 1992theBank mounted a large mission to: (i) review the status of implementation
  of the project and compliancewith theBank's Legal Agreementsin thelight of the findings of the
  Independent Review, and (ii) prepare a final field report for the Water Delivery and Drainage
  Project which had closed on July 1,1992. The mission reported that the Borrower had completed
  22 studiesprior to &. MOEFenvironmentalclearancein 1987.11 had been completed since then
  and 15 were underway or proposed. The mission concluded that there had been no severe
  environmental consequences to date because of study delays. Nevertheless, the mission
  recommended that a detailEnvironmental ManagementPlan be produced as soon as possible. This
  plan should include a synopsis of all the studies completed to date, underway or planned, and
  details of future work needed in the estuary and on health issues. It noted that the SSNNL was
  embarking on an EIA for the command area according to latest Bank guidelines in view of a
  possible Phase 11Canalproject. Themission reviewed and commented extensively on the TOR of
  theEIA.

  24.     On health aspects, the mission noted that the Government of Gujarat had accepted the
  findings of the January 1992mission concerningthe expansion in and around the dam construction
  site, therisk of cerebralmalaria and the inadequacyof theprimary healthcare services. The recom-
  mendations of the mission included the setting up of a Health Planning and Monitoring Cell in
  SSNNL, preparation of an environmental health management plan, and establishmentof an anti-
  malaria Unit at the dam site(Kevadia)to be followed by othersin the command arealater.

  25.     Following the July mission, the Bank sent an action letter on August 10, 1992 which
  requested the Borrower to submit a schedulefor producing an Environmental Management Plan
  within the next six months and a plan to addressthe health issues. The lettercontained a detailed
  draft action program on the R&R aspectsof the project..

  The Borrower's Response

  26.     Following theBank's mission and letter, the Borrower in their letter of September 1,1992
  assured the Bank that GO1 would address with urgency the positive concerns raised by the
  IndependentReview and Bank missions and that management and organizational weaknesses in
  the R&R program would be removed. The attachmentto the letter indicated that a comprehensive
  environmental action plan including such activities as catchment area treatment, compensatory
  afforestation, command area development, health plan, fisheries, flora and fauna, and
  archaeological studies, on which action has already been initiated, has been prepared and is
  presently under review by NCA. Also attached to the letter was a bar chart showing a list of
. environmental studies completed, ongoing and proposed. The preparation of an EIA for the
  command area was not mentioned

                                                                             AnmaL
                                                                              Page 7 of 22


Board Benchmarks

27.     A formal report entitled "Review of Current Status and Next Steps" was then prepared and
submitted to the.Board on October 20, 1992. The report gave a detailed descriptionof the R&R
and environmentalissues identifed by the Independent Review and Bank missions and indicated
the most recent steps taken by the Borrower to remedy the situation. The guiding principle of the
Management's response was to seekwith the Borrower constructivesolutionsto the issues raised
in view of its belief that, even after full allowance is ma& for the costs of the R&R and relevant
environmental mitigating measures, the SSP projects remain economically sound and
developmentally important. The Management's position also recognized that the benefits of the
SSP projects must not be achieved at the cost of reductions in the standard of living of affected
persons. Theenvironmentalcosts and risks- particularly those related to health, loss of fisheries
and possibility of waterlogging and salinity in the command area - had to be handled through an
appropriatecombinationof               studiesand the creationof capacity within the project to take
timely ameliorativeaction.

28.     In the section on Next Steps,the Management presented to the Board three options:

        a.      a formal or informal su'spension of disbursements pending completion of (and
                where necessary, enhancement to) stepsi&ntit3ed in the Borrower's response;

        b.      reappraisal of theR&R and environmental aspectsof the SSPprojects asa basis for
                follow-up projects to support: (i) R&R of those displaced by the reservoir; (ii)
                sustainable command area development; and (iii) implementation of an agreed
                basin-wideEnvironmental Management Plan; and

        c.      continuation of the support for the project on the basis of responses received from
                the Borrower, and subjectto the confinnation of continued improvementsover the
                next sixmonths, to be monitored againstactionsalready agreed and benchmarks for
                assessingprogressin implementation.

29.     The Management stated its preference for the third option which built upon the results
achieved and maximized the prospects forsuccessful implementation of thestepsnoted in the Bor-
rower's response, which arescheduledtobe completed in the next few months. The Management
nevertheless recognized the riskof these stepsnot being taken in a timely or effectivemanner and
proposed that, in that event, remedial action be taken through suspension of disbursements.
Should financial or skill gaps emergewhich prevent timely action,the Bank would be prepared to
consider supplementarysupport.

30.     The Board met on October 23, 1992 to discuss the Review of Current Status and Next
Steps prepared by the Bank staff. The Executive Directors agreed with the analysis of the
IndependentReview which had identified a number of deficienciesin the Bank's appraisaland the
Borrower's implementation of the projects. Many Directorshad concernsabout obstacleswhich
still had to be overcome. They emphasized the need for full consultation with the affected people,
the importanceof satisfactoryR&R programs in all t k statesand theimportanceof atimely and
comprehensiveanalysis of environmentalaspects. The Board a g d to the Management's third
option to continuesupportto the projects because they wished to work with the new Government
of India which had recently made considerable efforts to address the projects' problems and
because it was the best availableoption.

31.     The Board determined a number of benchmarks that the Borrowerwould have to meet by
March 31,1993. ThoughtheWaterDeliveryandDrainageproject was closedsinceJuly 1992,the
Board fixed three benchmarksrelating to this project

                                                                             JiiMQ&
                                                                             Page 8 of 22

        a.        Completion of a prioritized environmental overview report for the Sardar Sarovar
                  Projects;

        b.        Satisfactoryprogress in completing an Environmental Impact Assessment for the
                  Gujaratcommand area;and

        c.        Adequate implementationof Gujarat's malaria control program at the SSPproject
                  sitein linewith the specificrecommendationsof the July 1992Bank mission.

32.     The Board requested that a specialreview mission should visit India during April 1993to
assess progress in the implementation of the agreed action plan. Continuation of the Bank's
supportafter April 1993would depend on meeting the agreed benchmarksfor assessingprogress.
During the Board meeting, the UK Executive Director proposed that the OverseasDevelopment
Agency (ODA)could assist the Borrowerin meeting the benchmarks. Subsequently,aTrust Fund
of E 1.0million was depositedwith theBank for that purpose.

Borrower's Actions and Present Status

33.     Beginning November 1992, a Bank mission headed by the Director, India Department
visited the heads of all agenciesconcerned in India todiscussthe benchmarks and agree on a work
program for meeting these by end-March 1993. Thismission was followed by action lettersdated
November 9, 1992to MOWR, NCA, and the threestatesconcerned which containeda detailed list
of time-bound actionsthat each implementingagency was to carry out

34.     TheBank thereafterprepad detailed TOR and recruited in December 1992two consulting
f m s to assistthe implementingagenciesin meeting the benchmark.^:
                                              . .
        a.       E m         ptaResourceswasrequestedtoassistNCAinpreparing:
                 (i) the Environmental Overview Prioritized Action Plan of the Sardar Sarovar
                 Projects, and (ii) theTOR for the Formulation of a Narmada River basin Environ-
                 mental ManagementPlan.

        b.       Consultantswere requested to assist NCA and SSNNL in preparing: (i) Sardar
                 SarovarProjectsCommand Area Environmental ImpactAssessment,(ii) Environ-
                 mental Changes Downstream of Sardar Sarovar Dam, (iii) Sediment and Back
                 Water Aspects of SardarSarovarProject,and (iv)Notes on SardarSarovarProject
                 Hydrology.

35.     The two consultantf m s worked in India fromJanuaryto March 1993in associationwith
the Borrower's implementing agencies. In spite of the magnitude of the task, the two f m s were
able to submit their reports by end-February and mid- March 1993. However, the Borrower
realizing that it would be difficultto meet all the benchmarksand particularly those relatingto R&R
by March 31, 1993, requested the Bank by letter of March 29, 1993 to cancel the remaining
portion of the Loanfor the Dam and Power project, thus putting an end to the Bank's assistanceto
the SardarSarovarprojects.

36.    TheBorrower's compliance with theenvironmentalbenchmarks was submittedto the Bank
in NCA's letter of August 5,1993 to which was attached the following reports:

        a.       Evolution of Institutional Arrangements for R&R, Environmental Safeguardsand
                 the World BankInvolvement;

        b.       Environmental Overview and Prioritized Action Plan prepared by NCA with the
                 assistanceof ERL,

        c.       EnvironmentalChangesDownstream of SardarSarovarprepared by consultants;

                                                                             AnmxL
                                                                              Page 9 of 22


        d.      SardarSarovarProject Command Area EnvironmentalImpact Assessment,Interim
                Report in three volumes prepared by NCA, GOG with the assistance of
                consultants.

37.     Beginning in August 1993, NCA, SSNNL, the Bank and the consultants discussed the
additionalstudies quired to completethe EIA. These concern the establishmentof an integrated
groundwatermodel of the command area to: (i) identify the extent, severityand location of water
logging, (ii)secondarysalinization, (iii)estimate the qualityand quantity of groundwateravailable
for irrigation,and (iv) investigatethe feasibility of controllingthe water table through conjunctive
use. In addition, two separate studies would be carried out concerning: (a) an estimate of the
quality andquantity of agriculturaldrainage water, and (b) the EM forthe down-streamriver and
estuary reach taking intoconsiderationrevised estimatesof river flows and otherparameters. As a
result, NCA requested and the Bank agreed to extend the consultants' contract forthe completion
of the command area EIA from March 1994to December 1994.

38.     Thefmdings    of the EnvironmentalOverview      by ERLand Interim EIA by the consultants
ate summarized in the chapteron MajorImpacts and mitigating measuresbelow.

Bank Performance

39.     At appraisal the Bank's procedures for environmental clearance were not as rigorous as
they arenow. Additionally, the project was approved without a formalenvironmentclearancefrom
the Borrower. The SAR mentioned the need for preparing an Environmental Impact Assessment
for the command area and for measures to minimize risk of malaria, filaria, schistosomiasisand
other water-related diseases. A covenant relating to the health aspects was included in the Water
Delivery and Drainage Credit Agreement, but the covenant relating to the preparation of an
environmentalwork plan was included onlyin the Dam and Power Project Agreements. Thelack
of clarity in these Legal Documentswith regard to meaning and contentof the environmentalwork
plan actuallyweaLened the efficacyof this importantcovenant

40.       Throughout project implementation, Bank supervision missions paid attention to the
impacts of the project on the upsueam, downstream and command areas. With regard to the
command area, the engineers supervising the project, in agreement with the Borrower, were
confidentthat environmentalconcernshad been taken into acc~untadequately through existingsoil
surveys,groundwaterand drainagestudies. Though these studiesconstitutedthe basis for anEIA,
the actual EIA and Environmental Management Plan on mitigating measures were not clearly
formulatedor included in the project design. It isonly when the IndependentReview was at work
and later presented their report, that the Bank realized that a thorough EIA would be required if a
second Phase Canal project was to be considered. The Bank then recruited a consultantto review
the existing studiesand propose a work plan forthe EIA.

41.     Similarly,Bank supervisionmissions did not pay enough attentionto the health aspectsof
the project and relied too heavily on the Boxrower's assessment. It is onlyto-wards the end of the
project when theIndependentReview team was at work thatthe Bankrecruited a malaria specialist
to assessthe situation.

Borrower Performance

42.     Becausethe project envimnmentalstudieswere not complete, the MOEFagreed to provide
a conditional environmental clearance on June 24, 1987 according to which the preparation of
environmentalstudies and implementationof mitigating measures would be carried out pari pasu
with project implementation. A project of thls magnitude doesnot require that all possibleimpacts
be assessed in detail, particularly for those areas which are to be implemented over 20 years.
However,with modem simulation and remote sensing technologiesit is possible and necessary to
study at least the most critical impacts so that the project design can accommodatethe most likely

                                                                            &4xlw&
                                                                             Page 10of 22

impacts. The Borrower's performance on this point has been weak even though some
groundwater simulation models and drainagestudieswere prepared for the Phase I of the project.
The Borrower had difficultiesthroughout project implementation in integratingthe various studies
intoone comprehensiveEIA It claimed on several occasions that theimpactswould be monitored
closelyduringimplementationand remedial action would be taken as and when necessary. As the
Inkpendent Review suggested, this procedureis not compatible with sound planning and can only
lead to expensivecrisismanagement. For example, one should not wait for the groundwatertable
to xise to unacceptablelevels before constructing drains or digging wellsfor conjunctive use aswas
done in the case of the adjoining Mahi command. It would be preferable and less expensive to
d e t e h as part of a comprehensiveEIA where the criticalareas were and from the start design
theirrigation systemsforconjunctiveuse.

Lessons Learned

43.      The major issues that plagued the implementation of the EnvironmentalAssessment were
the absence of specific detailed covenants on environment and the lack of necessary GO1
clearancesof the projectprior to Board approval. Thoughthe environmental guidelinesin India, as
well as in the Bank, were becoming more stringent, the Borrower and the Bank failed to give
appropriateattention to tbe impactof irrigationover a grosscommand area of about 3.5 million ha
and to incorporate corresponding mitigating measures in the project &sign. The Borrower's
attitude can be explained by the lack of experience in preparing environmental assessments and
management plans for such a large project. However, theBank should have paid moE attention to
the command area by: (i) using environmentalspecialistsfamiliar with large scale irrigation and
drainageprojects during supervision,and (ii)taking remedialactionssuch as.theamendmentof the
Legal Agreementsto addressdeficientcovenantson environment.

44.     Thestrictadherenceto themore recent OD4.01 on Environmental Assessment willensure
that situationsthat occurred under the SSPwill not be repeated. But, supervision by a qualified
environmental speaahst is a prerequisite for the successful implementationof the environmental
components of large scale irrigation and drainage projects. The Bank belatedly recognizd this
necessity by using the services of consultants who are now assisting the Borrower in completing
the command area EIA by December 1994. Once the EIA is completed, the Borrower will then
have to operationalizeand integratemitigating measuresin the project design.

45.     During the preparation of this PCR,different views have emerged on whether it would
have been appropriateto carryout a detailedEnvironmentalAssessment at the time of appraisal or
whether the "pari pasu" approach indicated in the MOEF clearance was not a more realistic
approach. The supportersof thefirst option arguedthat with modem technologiessuch as remote
sensingand mathematicalmodelling it was possible to gain a relatively accurateidea of the impact
on environment and therefore to include in the project's detailed designs remedial measures to
prevent any environmentaldamage. The proponentsof the second option doubted the accuracy of
such forecasting and indicated that the impacts would develop slowly, would be better detected
through a good monitoring system and could be mitigated before any damage occurred to the
environment. The lattersaid that the impacts of groundwaterrising and salinity would not be felt
for many years. It is the view of the PCR that, to the extent possible, all impacts should be
assessed ahead of time even if they may talte many years to develop and in cases where exact
magnitudes of impactare uncertain, furtherstudiescan adjustthe estimateslater. In particular, the
PCR believes it would have been safe to includeat the design stage a certain volume of water for
pollution control downstream of thedam. It is alwayseasierto return part of the water allocations
setasideratherthan takeawaysomeamountswhich may have alreadyfound someotheruse.

                                                                            Page 11of 22


MAJOR IMPACTS AND MITIGATING MEASURES

Introduction

46.    The following section summarizes the findings of the Environmental Overview prepared
byERL and the Interim EIA by the consultants.

47.    The project will provide irrigation water and domestic and industrial water supplies for
millions of people in a drought-prone m a of Gujarat and generate a large quantity of renewable
power and energy. In addition to these environmental benefits, the impoundment of the Narmada
River and the diversion of water will also have other environmental impacts. The following key
areas need to be addressed to assess these impacts and plan the project's environmental
management:

        a.                   -effectofagriculturalintensificationon project area;

        b.     Water-impactondomestic,municipalandindustrialwatersupply;

        c.     Public-impactonhealthduetomalariaandwater-bornediseases;

       d.      n--ground         impact on surface and          water quality within the command
               area;

       e.                             Use impacton heath and waterquality;
                                           -
                                      . .
       f.      Waterlogeine possiblechangesinthegroundwaterregimeandthe
                                            --
                  saltbalance;

       g.      Natural-impactsonriverandcaphuefisheries;

        h.     Forest --Impacton forestedand protected areas;

        i,     ---                impact on natural feservesand endangered specie.; and

       j-      --                   impacton importantcultural and ~ligioussites and buildings.

Agriculture

48.    The project will raise the cropping intensityfrom 105%to 128%and the irrigationintensity
from 20% to 85% as per the PFP and 106% as per the SAR. Agricultural intensification is
expected to have an overall positive impact by .greatlyreducing the effects of drought on the
command area ecology. The enhanced agricultural production will generate employment
opportunities for almost 600,000 persons thus reducing the encroachment on sensitive and critical
areas. Larger quantities of fodder derived from crop residues will reduce over-grazing. The
plantations of trees along canals, roads and farms will improve to a large extent the permanent
vegetative cover and reduce wind erosion, while the construction of a drainage system will reduce
to some extent sheet and gully erosion during heavy monsoon downpours. There will be also
some negative impacts on water quality, soils and other aspects which will need to be mitigated as
described in the followingparagraphs.

Water Supply

49.    The water conveyed by project works will supplement and safeguard the supply of
drinking water to 135 urban centers and 8,215 villages, including all the 100 urban centers and

                                                                              lblmaL
                                                                              Page 12of 22

  5,825 villages in Kutch and Saurashtra The total annual demand is estimated (on the basis of
  2021 population projections)at 1.3 billion cubic meters (bcm).

          M a l l in Kutch and Saurashtrain particular is extremely unreliable. Thereiseffectively
..50.
  no rainfall outside the June-Septembermonsoon period and there are no perennial rivers. Water
  supplies are drawn from tanks and open wells. Only over limited mas in Kutch is supply from
  tubewells feasible. In many cases the water is of poor quality and the variability of the rainfall
  results in drought conditions every third or fourth year when many of the supplies fail. In the
  recent three-yeardroughtof 198485to 1986187water had to be imported by tanker,suppliesin the
  cities of Jamnagar and Rajkot were available only on alternate days; and, in the case of Rajkot,
  over a period of 60 days; water was brought by rail from Gandhinagar. Over Gujarat as a whole,
  more than 15,000villages suffered shortages.

  51.     Under the project, water willbe delivered to offtake along the canal network, and supply
  from these points will be the responsibility of the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board
  (GWSSB). From the offtake, the water will be pumped through piped main supply networks to
  town and villageservice reservoirssupplying the local distributionsystems. The plan is to cover
  all urban centers and villages by 2015. The canal system is also designed to provide water of
  about 0.25 bcm annuallyto anumber of industrialusers. Ofthis, 70%is allocated to fiveGujarat
  Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) estates to be developed in the western parts of the
  State. A feasibilitystudy is now underway as a prelude to initiatingthe design of the water supply
  system. Thisstudywillalso coverimprovementsin the sewerage system.

  52.     The supply of water will be of considerable benefit to the populations of Kutch and
  Saurashtra and the general quality of life, including health, will be enhanced. Recent figures
  quoted from the 1991 All India Census show a marked decline in population growth rates
  compared with the previous decade, indicating substantial out-migration from the region. The
  improved quality of life, together with theemploymentopportunitiesoffered by the GIDC estates,
  may help to stem this. Women, in particular, arelikely to benefit from the provision of convenient
  and reliablesuppliesof water for domestic use.

  Public Health

  General

  53.     Improved access to domestic water supplieshas the potential to yl%ldsubstantial public
  health benefits. However, there arealsohealth riskssincewithoutproper controlthe transport and
  storageof water can lead to inawes in the incidence of water-related diseases. Plans are needed
  to controldiseasevectors and to provide health facilities for migrant constructionworkers and the
  resettled population.

  54.     Health services in India are defined by the National Health Policy (NHP) and national
  diseaseprograms such asthe National MalariaEradicationProgram (NMEP).TheNHPentitlesall
  Indians to accessto medical facilities,the numberand distributionof which aredetermined by local
  population density. The NMEP was developed as a nationwide strategy to combat the spread of
  malaria. The three state governmentswill integrate development of new facilitiesfor the project
  with proposals alreadymade under the NHP and NMEP.

  55.     In addition to the general obligations of the states under national policy, a specific
  requirementfor the projectcontainedin the'Ministryof Environmentand Forests' Environmental
  Clearance Order (1987)was that health facilitiesshould be provided for workers and residents of
  the affected areas. The Credit Agreement also stipulated that each state should take measuresto
  minimize the risk of malaria, fdaria, schistosomiasisand other diseases.

                                                                              AillwaL
                                                                              Page 13of 22




56.     There are four main sources of potential health impact associated with the water delivery
system.  m,pools       of standing water formed during construction and operation of the canals
may provide breeding areasfor diseasevectors.    u,        the spread of irrigationmay exposemore
people to water-borne diseases. Third.construction workers may bring with them diseases or
parasites to which the permanent population has low immunity. Fourth,new cisterns and tanks
built to receive the new water supplies will provide breeding sites unless properly designed.
Diseasesassociatedwithwatera ~subdividedintoseveralgroupsassummarizedbelow:
                                    e

        a.      -:            Water supplies contaminated by feces from a human carrier of the
                infectiveorganism (typhoid,cholera, dysentery, giardia, diarrhoea);

        b.      -:             Infections caused by worms, flukes and trematodes. Feces from
                infectedhumanscontaining worm eggsentersecondaryhost through contaminated
                water. Larvae then invadehuman hosts. (schistosomiasis, guinea worm infection);

        c.      m:             Insectvectorsbreed in or around water and m m i t diseaseby biting
                infected human hosts, then feeding on unaffected humans. (malaria, sleeping
                sickness, onchocerciasis, viral diseases); and

        d.                        Fecal-oral transmission associated with poor hygiene, lack of
                washing. Incidence decreased by improved water availability (diarrhoea, ulcers,
                scabies, trachoma, fungalinfections).

57.     The project is expected to yield ~ i g ~ c apublic health benefits since increased water
                                                        n t
availability will help to reduce the incidence of 'water-washed' and 'waterborne' diseaseswhich
are associatedwith poor hygieneand restricted water supply. Managementof the potential health
impacts of the project willfocus therefore on the exclusion andlor control of the diseasevectors
which spread 'water-based' and 'water-related' diseases. Mitigating measures to control 'water-
related' have been included in the design and implementation of the irrigation and drainage
systems, in addition to the prophylactic measures taken by the Health Department. Borrow pits
along the canal system and natural ponds where stagnant water is likely to accumulate will be
drained as part of the drainageprogram. Openquarries and large excavation works will be either
refilled with spoil earth, drained or converted into village tanks or fish ponds. A handbook on
sanitary engineering is being prepared with the assistance of consultants and the Health
Department, and willbe given to irrigationstaff and contractorsto reduce the impact of malaria and
water-bonze diseases.

Studies

58.     A large number of studieshas been carriedout on the health profile of villages in the three
affected states. Thekey studies     summarizd below:

        a.      Narmada Program - Schistmomiasis - Back-to-mce Report, 1986 describesthe
                schistosomiasis assessment carried out the National Institute of Communicable
                Diseases (NICD) and the World Health Organization (WHO).Thisconfirmed the
                incidence of schistowmiasis in Gimvi Village, Ratnagiri District, Maharashtra.
                This is the only location in India where the disease had been recorded; the report
                found that the Ratnagiri pocket is stable and that concerns expressed over the
                spread of schistosomiasis dueto the project are unfounded.

        b.      Proceedings and Recommendations of the Meeting on Schistosomiasis Research
                and Surveillance 1985. In 1985, the NICD surveyed several Narmada villages in

                                                                             AilmxA
                                                                             Page 14of 22

                Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Several thousand urine samples were tested for
                parasiteeggs with negativeresults.

        c.      Disease Profile of CommandArea by the Commissariat of Health, Medical
                Services and Medical Edrrcation (SCHMS),1986. Thisstudy contained an analysis
                of the disease profile in the Command Area and formed the basis of the Gujarat
                work plan forenvironmentalhealth.

         d.     Sardar Sarovar Narmada Project Studies on Ecology and Environment by MS
                University of Baroh, 1983. To understand the health profile of the Narmada
                River, MSU visited 42 sites from Hanf to the river mouth. Data were collected
                from public health centers and public health units to establish the rates of
                occurrence and distribution of disease over the previous five years. These data
                were used to produce an assessment of the likely health impacts upstream and
                downstream of the dam site.

        e.      Studies on Water Related Diseases in the Command Area including the Area
                Downstreamof the Dam, this is an ongoing assessment of the health impact in the
                Command Area commissionedby SCHMS in December 1992. This assessment
                will includethecataloguing of existingfacilitiesin Gujarat, thecollectionof t i m e
                series data on diseases, the identification of problem areas and a summaryof
                recommendations for additional facilitiesrequhd. A report is expected by mid-
                1993.

Findings

59.     The MS University of Baroda (MSU) study of 1983and other studiesconcluded that the
most commondiseases in the Nannada Basin were malaria, scabies, dysenteryand diarrhoea. Of
these diseases, only the threat of increased incidence of malaria was said to be of concern to the
project authorities. Occurrenceof the other diseases is,in general, related to poor hygiene, poor
sanitation and the lack of drinkingwater. Thestudyconcludedthat the incidenceof these hygiene-
related diseaseswould be reduced by better water availability.

60.     Severalother studieshave alsoidentified malaria and Japaneseencephalitisas the greatest
potential health threats in the project affected areas, but have indicated that timely mitigation
measureswould greatly reduce anyrisk. The SCHMSreport, for example,pointed out that some
of the command area was already under irrigation and that the addition of new areas would not
have a marked impact on malariaincidence. Thereport did recommend however that the incidence
of malaria should be subject to surveillance and recommended that practical measures to be
implementedwhere necessary to protect agricultural communities. A consensuswas reached that
schistosomiasiswill not constitutea serioushealth issue. Thisview was put forward in the MCD
report and confmed by the subsequentWorld BanWWHOmissions.

61.     According to the MSU reportof 1983,fk         isconfmed to thecoastal areasof Saurashtra
and South Gujarat. Filaria has also been reported near the reservoir site, but the studyconcluded
that the disease was unlikely to spread to the memoir area.

62.     Ratesof malaria mmmision in Gujarat arehigh, frequently recording the greatestnumber
of cases in India The principal vectors responsible for transmission are
                                 . .                                                            'in
urban areas and                          in rural areas. Annual parasite incidence rates can vary
widely from year to year. Malaria is found in both urban and rural areas. High trans-mission rates
are generally found in more densely populated (more heavily urbanized) areas, but some less'
densely populated regions also have high transmission rates. There is a marked seasonality in
transmission, incidence appearing to peak in MayIJune and remaining relatively high until
end-October. The causeof the variation is unclear sincethe rise in incidencestartsbefore the rains
begin in June. Comparison of rural and urban populationsin Kheda, the district with the greatest

                                                                              JiimxaL
                                                                              Page 15of 22

area under inigation, appears to indicate that the same influences determine transmission in both
populations and that irrigation may thus have less influence on transmission in this region than
previously believed. There is need for a more detailed study into the main causative factors.

63.     The principal parasite species has in the past been Plasmodiumbut a general trend
towards a greatly increased percentage of the more clinically acute form of malaria,
has been evident recently, although therehas also been a change in the method of d-
obvious differencebetween rural and urban areascan be seen

64.     Malariamntrol isprovided through an establishedand activeNational MalariaEradication
Program under the State Health Authoritia. Implementation is through the Primary Health Center
network Success rates are monitored regularly and there is a national program of research
continuouslyinvestigating and testing alternativestrategies. At present, control measurestaketwo
forms: In the villages, spraying is done in every house twice a year with DDT, Malathion or
benzene hexachloride. It is estimated that some 80%to 85%of village houses are covered in this
way. In urban areas ( m o than 10,000inhabitants)control is by spraying potential b m x h g areas
                            ~
once a week with a larvicidaloil. Potable water tanks are alsotreated.



65.     A study of water-related diseases for the command area is currently being undertaken for
the Nigam by the medicalcolleges in Baroda, Ahmedabad and Jamnagar. Objectives are to study
the current situationwith regard to such diseases and to estimate the extent to which they are likely
to present problems as the result of imgation development. The study will also make
recommendations as to appropriate mitigatory measures, management plans and institutional
arrangementsfor implementingthem.

66.     To minimize creation of new water bodies, borrow material for canal construction will as
far as possible be obtained from existing village tanks. In the majority of tanks,whether used for
borrow or not, shallow waterconditionscan in futurebe prevented through connection to the canal
system. Stocking with fish will be encouraged. Where borrow pits are opened ,they will be
graded to allow drainage. Provisionof surfacedrainageis in fact an integral part of the project and
will generallytend to reduce standingwater followingrain

Water Quality

67.     The water resourcesof the command area may be categorized as perennial rivers, seasonal
rivers, village tanks,groundwater and the estuarine regions into which the rivers discharge.
Perennial rivers traversing the command area itself are the Mahi and the Sabarmati, the flows of
which are partially regulated by the Kedanaand Dharoi dams,respectively. In the case of the Mahi,
at timesof low flow the whole of the dischargeis diverted at Wanakbori, some 15km upstream of
the command area,to supply the Mahi Right Bank Command

68.     The principal seasonal rivers,'in which flow after the winter season is negligible, are the
Dhadar, Rupen, Saraswati and Banas. Within the Command area there are many village tanks and
ponds that play an important role in the provision of water for domestic use and livestock.
Groundwater is used for domestic and industrial water supply, and for irrigation. The command
area is underlain by two aquifers, an upper phreatic aquifer and a lower confined aquifer. While
the quality in the southern part of the command area is generally reasonable in both aquifers,
salinity levels increase towards the northwest and towards the coast.



69.     Information on water quality in the region is currently obtained through the monitoring
programs carried out by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) and by the Gujarat Water
Resources Development Corporation (GWRDC).The GPCB program is oriented mainly towards

                                                                             -
                                                                              Page 16of 22

pollution from industrial and urban effluents. Water quality is monitored regularly at stations on
the Dhadhar, Mahi and Sabarmati rivers, as well as at a number of reservoirs and tanks. It is
apparent that the Dhadharis polluted over much of its length, as are the lower reaches of the Mahi
downstream of the Baro& area The Sabarmati is polluted downstream of Ahmedabad, although
thecurrent enlargement of the sewage treatment worlcs there may offer some improvement in the
futm. Industrial and urban effluentsare also discharged into the Narmada estuary. Groundwater
ismonitored by GPCBonly when specificproblemsoccurorareanticipated.

70.      The monitoring done by GWRDC is principally in respect of tubewell supplies for-potable
use. Under theprogram, chemicalanalysesof samplestaken from some 220tubewells supplying
water for domesticand municipal use throughout the command area are carried out at least once a
year. The salinity of the water in both aquifersis generally in excess of 1,000 mg/l TDS; in the
case of the confined aquifer salinity rises in some areasto more than 3,000 mg/lTDS; and in that
of thephreatic aquifersalinity in excessof 30,000mg/l TDS have been measured. The saltsin the
salinegroundwaterare dominated by sodiumchloride.

71.      Water quality, particularlyin respectof rechargeand drainage abstractions, has also formed
a component of a number of the mathematical model studies carried out to investigate the
susceptibility of the command area to waterlogging followingimport of Narmada water.

72.      The command area surface drainage system will serve the dual purposes of removing
runoff from agricultural land, resulting either from precipitation, excessirrigation applicationsor
operationalwastageh m thecanalsystem, and of lowering thewatertablein the phmitic aquifer to
prevent waterlogging and salinity.

73.      Since the command area is already extensively cultivated in the kharif season, the future
qualityof drainagewater from agriculturalland is unlikely todiffer greatly from the present during
that season. Salinity levels of runoff from surplus irrigation water, even where this is derived
wholly or partly from groundwater, are unlikely to give rise to salinity levels much in excess of
1,500mg/l TDS. Salinity of subsurface drainage water could in such cases however be two or
three times thisfigure. In thekharif season these concentrationswould be diluted by runoff from
rainfall and will leach toa largeextent thesalts duetowinter and hot weather irrigation It has been
suggested that release of N m a & water into rivers during the low flow period could be used to
improvequality.

74.     Discharges from surface drains which outfall to the lower reaches of the Sabarmatiand
those rivers east of it are unlitely to affect significantly the naturally poor quality of the water.
Some surface drainagewater may enter the Rann of Kutch which is also naturally salt-affected.
However, the existing levels of salinity in the soil and in the water duringthe seasonal inundation
are substantiallyhigher than those which would result from disposal of drainage water from the
command a x a

75.     The quality of the groundwater used for irrigation will generally not be as good as that of
the water from the Narmada River (200 mg/l to 400mg/l TDS), and in some areas will require
mixing to bring it to an acceptable level. To control use of poorer quality waters, it is planned to
mix slightlysaline groundwaterwith canalwater and the project should providefor largerwater
applications and adequate surface or sub-surface drainage to leach excess salts. As a result,
aquiferswhere the water is of better qualityshould not beadverselyaffected.



76.     The current water quality monitoring program needs to be extended. This will provide
early warning of any changes in water quality as the project develops and provides data for
calibratingmathematical models. The program would also providefor detection of pollution from
agriculturalchemical residues.

                                                                              -
                                                                              Page 17 of 22

77.     Further consideration needs to be given to the prediction of agricultural drainage water
quantity and quality, and where appropriate,to means of disposal. The impact of recharge from
irrigation on groundwater quality also needs further investigation. These studies could be
integrated into those to be doneon drainagesalinityand waterlogging.

78.     Having ascertained the likely quantity and quality of the drainage water which will be
discharged to the Rann of Kutch, it will be necessary to investigatethe proposed disposal areas to
confirm that there are unlikely to be any adverse effects and if necessary to devise mitigatory
measures. Information on drainage water quality is required for a number of other ongoing
studies,particularly thoserelated to flora and fauna and fisheries. Disposal of increafed quantities
of domestic and industrial effluent resulting from provision of improved water supplies is to be
studied in the forthcoming GWSSB water supply feasibility study.

Agricultural Chemical Use

General

79.     Current monitoring programs ate either of insufficient scope or of too short duration to
determine whether the increasing use of agricultural chemicals over recent years is reflected in
water quality. Cotton, a crop requiring a fairly high input of pesticides, is grown in the command
area, but therewill be only a modest inc-     in the areaunderthis crop. Cereal and oilseed crops
that will expand in area are not heavy users of pesticides or herbicides. Thus, the project is not
likely to lead to a large increase in the use of chemical controls. Fertilizer use will increase but
cultivation practices are such that Indian farmers rn thrifty and efficientin the use of fertilizers.
Furthermore, good progress has been made by the extension services in recent years to train
fanners to keep pesticides to a minimum especially on cotton and to minimize risk of accidents
while handling.



80.     A study will shortlybe doneby the Indian Agriculd Research Institute (IARI), Delhi, to
determinep m n t and likely futurelevelsof agriculturalchemical use by farmersin thecommand
area and to estimateexisting and f u w quality of runoff and infiltration to ground-water. The
study willalso examineimpactsmitigatingmeasures, including the scopefor reductions in the use
of chemicalfertilizersand pesticidesthrough useof bio-fertilkrs and integrated pest management
programs.

Soils, Drainage, Waterlogging and Salinity



81.     Thesuitabilityof thesoilsin the command areafor higated agricultureis demonstratedby
the fact that most of the land is already fanned and p m l s of land overmuch the area have been
irrigated by groundwater for someyears. The more difficult soilsare theheavy claysin thecoastal
areawhich have been for many years devoted toa singlelong-duration cotton crop. These willnot
be irrigated but will be provided with surfacedrainageworks.

82.     There are areas of salinesoilwithin the command area These areas are the result of tidal
incursion or evaporation from depressions. Some salinity is also present in the more arid areas
where there is insufficientrainfallto leach saltsresultingfrom natural weathering. Most cropscan
however be grown without problems up to a salinity of 1,000mg/l TDS, and the majority of the
crops proposed for the project     -- rice, wheat, cotton, sorghum and maize -- can be grown
satisfactorily up to salinity of 2,000mg/l TDS. In the course of the Command area Soil Survey,
thousands of profdes have been obtained through pits and augers. Salinity measured in the soil
profile are less than 1,000mgflTDS over 70% of the area, and only on 15%do they exceed the

                                                                           Ar.uwL
                                                                           Page 18of 22

2,000 mgA TDS level. A significantproportion of these saline areas are in fact to be excluded from
the command area.

                   Waterlogeing

83.     The aquifer system underlying most of the command area,except for Regions 8.9 and a
large part of Region 1,consistsof a layered complexof alluvial sandsand clays. Over much of the
areathe alluvium ismore than 100m thick Broadly, the system may be considered ascomprising
an upper phreatic aquifer overlying a lower confined aquifer, the clay separatingthe two aquifers
becoming progressively less permeable towards the northwest. Yields of shallow wells in the
phreatic alluvial aquifer are reported to range up to 15Ysecond and from tubewells tapping the
confined aquifer, 30 Ysecond or more. Gross extraction for water supply and irrigation in the
command area in 1991 is estimated by Gujarat Water Resource Development Corporation
(GWRDC) to have totalled 2.1 bcm. Inigation planning for the project is based on an annual
averagegroundwater availabilityof 3.3 bcm.

84.     Areas of thecommand area where thewatertableriseswithin 5 m of the ground surfaceare
rare and are found mainly in lower lying tractsadjacent to the sea and to the Rann of Kutch. In
addition, some small areas of surface waterlogging are also found inland where heavy clay soils
occur. These clay soils have restricted drainability and water ponds on the surface until it
evaporates.

85.     In the areaswith usable groundwaterthechancesof waterlogging areremote. In fact, in the
absence of the project, the watertables would continue to decline and thereby create serious
problems for domestic water supplyand irrigation aspresentlyoccurring in the northern part of the
command area



86.     A detailed soil survey isbeing canied out under the control of the National Bureau of Soil
Survey and Land Use Planning. A Rapid Reconnaissance Survey (one pit/4000 ha; one auger
hold1000 ha, mapping at one inch to eight miles) has been camed out over the whole area A
Reconnaissance Survey (one pit/1000 ha, one auger hole4250 ha, mapping at one inch to four
miles) has also been completed over much of area. An integrated review of the soilsstudiesis to
be canied out.

87.     The Gujarat Water Resources DevelopmentCorporation (GWRDC), under contract to the
Nigam has established a total of 220 piezometers over the command area with roughly one
piemmeter every 150squarekm.Theseate monitoredfourtimesa year. Water qualityanalysesare
canried out for samplescollected each May. Results for Regions 1to 4 are available since 1984,
and for the rest of the area since 1991. GWRDC have also installed a number of
hydrometeorologicalstationsin the command areaand are proposing to installpiemmeternests to
investigateverticalleakage through lesspermeablelayers.

88.     GWRDC periodically prepares estimates of the available groundwater resource
abstractions. Their 1991report estimates that total usable recoverable recharge ( that part of the
recharge which can be abstracted from aquifers where the water is of a quality suitable for
irrigation)will be about4 bcm. annually.

89.     To examine further the impact of the project on the groundwaterregime of the area, four
mathematical model studieshave been canied out. Although there are someinconsistencies with
regard to input parameters, the models are considered to provide reasonable indications of areas
potentiallyvulnerableto waterlogging and of the futurepumped drainage fequirement.The models
show that at the expected levels of pumping, the riskof waterloggingis low.

                                                                             -
                                                                              Page 19of 22

90.    Nigam plans to employ a groundwaterexpert to review the various groundwater studies
carried out to date, and to advise on further studies necessary for development of operational
strategies for pumped drainage and conjunctive use over the whole command area. A drainage
expert will also be employed to review detailsof surface and subsurface drainage proposals.



91.    The import of Narmada water to the command area will result in an increase in ground-
water recharge. The volume of this additional recharge will depend on a number of factors
includingcropping pattern, the quantityof water applied, the efficiency of the irrigation system,the
effectiveness of surface drainage and the deep percolation characteristics of the irrigated soils.
GWRDCestimatesthat 85%of the additionalrecharge, amountingto 2 bcm, will be available for
extraction If theincreasein recharge is not matched by an increasein the quantity of water
extracted, groundwater levels might rise, risking waterlogging and salinization of the soil.
Modelling studies have identifled those areas most likely to be at risk and have indicated drainage
pumping requirements.

92.     Provided appropriate inigation managementmethods are used,and water levels carefully
monitored so that potential problems are identified at an early stage and remedial measures taken
promptly, there is no reason for waterloggingand salinity to present major problems.

93.     Provision of surface drainage in areas of heavy soils will reduce the occurrence of
pounding of rainfall,which oftencausesthefarmersto replant their crops.

94.     Experience in the adjacent 212,000 hectare Mahi Right Bank Command is encouraging.
With introductionof perennial irrigation in 1980,in the absenceof drainage, severewaterlogging
developed. A drainage master plan covering 44,000 hectares was drawn up, and as the result of
improved drainage and water control (thequantity of surface water supplied has been halved) the
situation appears to have been remedied to a large extent. Depths of watertable over most of the
command are reported to be between 1.5 m and 3 m, and in 1990a cropping intensity of 155%
was achieved.



95.    There is a needfor furthercompilationof hydmgeological data from the large numbersof
private and public sector tubewells throughout the commanda~eato amplify details in respect of
aquifer geometry, hydraulic properties and groundwater quality. The whole question of recharge,
past and present, should be reviewed, particularly with regard to soilsof different infiltrationintake
and apportionment of rechargetofresh,brackish and salinegroundwater zones.

96.    An integrated model of the en& command areaalluvial aquifer, based on the most up-m
date hydrologicalinformation, ascompiled above, needstobedevelopedincorporating the Mahi
Right Bank Command, Fatehwadi Command and other existing irrigation commands within the
overall extent of the project. The model should be used to investigate groundwater response to a
range of probable recharge rates and variationsin irrigation efficiency. The models would have a
modular structureso that particular regionscan be exmined in detail while fittinginto the overall
physical and development framework. Such a model could then be used, both for drainage
planning and design, and for planning temporary groundwater mining to deal with any periodic
surfacewater shortagesin abnormallydry years.

Natural Fisheries and Aquaculture



97.    The aquatic environment may be categorized as perennial rivers, seasonal rivers, village
tanks and the estuarine regions. Apart from the Nannada River at the command area's eastern

                                                                              AxlmxL
                                                                              Page 20 of 22

edge, only the Sabarmati and Mahi Rivers are perennial. With rainfall effectively occurring only
during the monsoon season, river flows show marked seasonality, with even in the perennial
rivers about 90%of the annual flow occurring between June and September. During the mon-
soon, the remaining rivers carry flash floods, but during the rest of the year are generally dry.
Storage dams have been constructed on the Sabarmati at Dharoi and on the Mahi at Kedana.
Within the command area some4,000 hectares of village tanksand ponds have been established.
The majority are less than 3 hectares in extent with depths of between 1 m and 3 m. The tidal
range in the Gulfs of Cambay and Kutch is some 9 m, and there are extensiveareas of inundated
land. Gujaratas a whole has about 360,000 hectares suitablefor coastal marine aquaculture.



98.       There are at least 77 species of fish from 19 families in the larger rivers, of which 20
speciesare regularlycaught by commercialfishermen. However, littleinformation is available on
their behavioralchamaxistics and interdependence.They willalready have been subjected to some
environmentalchangesas the result of dam construction and theeffects of these changesneed to be
determined. Inland fisheriesinclude catches and stocks from the brackish water estuarine areas
where hilsacongregateat thestart of each monsoon season for their upstream spawningmigration,
and which the freshwaterprawn has to enter to reproduce. Records of inland catchesare kept by
the Department of Fisheries by district. The total catch from the 12districtsin 1991192amounted to
32,000 tons of which more than one-half is from Baruch. Virtually all of the Baruch catch is from
the Narmada The fisheriesshowevery appearanceof being in a good state and over the last few
years have been expanding.



99.       Annual production in 1990/91 in the relevant districts of Gujarat totalled 660 tons.
Productivity rates are low because of continuing water supply problems. There are 10 carp
hatcheriesnow operationalwhich in 1992produced 560 million spawn. In addition,a number of
pond owners have been stocking their ponds withjuvenile freshwaterprawn.



100.      Proposals for development of fisheries in the command area have been put forward by
GOPA Consultants. These included a village pond development program, construction of a
pra-          hatchery and a demonstration farm with a carp hatchery.

101.      A study on fisheries was initiated by the Nigam in January 1993. The study covers both
inland and marine fisheries and aims to assess the present situation, the likely impacts of the
project, mitigating measures if required, management plan and possible plans for further
development.The 12-monthstudyis being carried out by MS University of Baroda in association
with the Central Inland Capture Fisheries Research Institute, Baroda, and Commissioner of
Fisheries, Gujarat.



102.      Surfacedrainage water from the commandarea willbe dischargedback intothe rivers from
where it will flow down to the estuaries. This may enhance flows and benefit capture fisheries
With a permanent water supply, extension services and hatcheries, productivity should rise
significantly and annual yields of 4 tonha are attainable. Hatchery technologies for the Indian carp
speciesare now well establishedand it isprobably desirableto encourage private investmentin the
hatcheryfnursery businessin addition to existing government facilities.

                                                                             AlwLL
                                                                             Page 21of.22




103.     The ongoing study appears adequate. It will however be necessary to ensure that the
appropriate information on water qualityis supplied to the agency carrying out the study in a timely
manner.

Forest

104.     Some canal alignments pass through forested areas in the command area.            SSNNL
estimatesthat the total area directly affected by canal alignments is unlikely to exceed 100ha and
points out that the planned afforestationprogram far exceedsthis figure. Due to the limited ams
of forest to be affected, no baseline studies have been produced. However, it is indicated that
sufficient information is available on species and afforestation with the Forestry Department to
carry out such a study and determinethe exact impact and remedial measures needed. SSNNLin
conjunction with the Forestry Department should prepare a study of forest areas directly and
indirectlyaffectedby the adventof irrigation. Thisstudyshouldbe based on a land-cover land-use
map showing forest areas,canal alignmentsand command areas.

Flora and Fauna



105.     There are two designated wildlife reserves located within the command area: the Nal
Sarovar Bird Sanctuary and the Velavadar Black Buck Sanctuary. The adjacent Little Rann of
Kutch has been designated a Wild Ass Sanctuary, and the Great Ram the Kutch Desert Wildlife
Sanctuary. The Nal Sarovar Sanctuary is a depression some 60km southwest of Ahmedabad,
which duringthe monsoon fills to fom a freshwater lake covering an area of about 120sq km. In
the dry season the lake shrinksto a number of small ponds. More than 120species of migratory
birds are reported to visit the lake in the winter months. The Velvadar Sanctuary, about 30 km
northwest of Bhavnagar, covers 18sq lan and is home for some4,000 black buck. 'IheWild Ass
Sanctuaryin the Lide Rann of Kutch covers4,054sq km. In addition to wild ass, the sanctuary is
reported to hold blue bull, black buck, chinkara and wolves. 'Ihe adjacentKutch Desert Wildlife
Sanctuaryin the Great Rann also holds wild ass, but is particularly noted as having the b&g
site (PachamIsland) of perhaps one-half of the world's population of theh t e r Flamingo.

106.     The now rareGreat Indian Bustard is reported to inhabitthe plains of Kutch and Saurashtra
outside the command area. It is reported that the compensatory afforestation in the Kutch has
created a suitable habitat for this bird. During the winter months there is a wide diversity of bird
life in the command area, e s p d y in irrigated fields (especially paddy rice)and other small water
bodies. This typeof habitatwill be expanded by theproject.



107.     Previous investigations relating to floristic and wildlife aspects of the Sardar Sarovar
Project have largely concentrated on the reservoir submergence area. Four studies relating
specificallyto the command area are now underway: a general study of the command area as a
whole (which also includes floristic aspects of the sanctuaries), and detailed studies on the Nal
Sarovar, Velvadar and Wild Ass Sanctuaries.Thegeneral study has been split on a regional basis
between SardarPatel, Gujarat and SaurashtraUniversities, while the sanctuariesare being studied
by expert groups coordinated by the Forestry Department. The studies are required to determine
the baseline situation, possible impacts, mitigating measures if required, and plans for monitoring
and management

                                                                               -
                                                                               Page 22 of 22




108.    With theland in thecommand area alreadyextensively cultivated, the extension of irrigated
agricultureis unlikely to require much land clearance. Thenon-monsoon regimen will be less arid,
both directly on account of the increase in rabi and summer irrigation, and also as the result of
drainage and retum flows. This is likely to be particularly attractive to birdlife, as will be the
increasein tree density.

109.    Canal and drain alignmentsmay restrict animal movements. Thisis relevant to the Wild
Ass Sanctuary, wherethe Kutch Branch Canal crossesthe passage between the two Ranns, and to
the Velavadar Sanctuary which will be traversed by canal systems served by the Vallabhipur
Branch. Consideration might have to be given to provision of crossing points or to changing the
alignment of canals and drains where feasible. Pollution of agricultural runoff and drainage by
fertilizers and pesticides is unlikely to increase, but this is the subject of a separate study. Also
requiring careful consideration in connection with Nal Sarovar is the proposal to link it to the
irrigationsystem to allow it to be used as a storagepond. The ability to provide permanent water
throughout theyear overa limited areacould however be beneficial to the reserve.



110.    A detailedstudy needs to be madeof the existing runoff and drainagesystemsover theNal
Sarovar catchment Monitoring of the quality of the water in and draining to the lake should be
started as soon as possible to determine the baseline situationand also to detect possible impacts
from adjacent ongoing irrigated and rainfed agriculture. The design of the proposed surface
drainagenetwork in the region should also be talren to a level at which its impact on the pattern of
drainageinto and out of Nal Sarovarcan be determinedand if necessary modified. Information on
water quality from other studieswill need to be provided to the agencies and groups carrying out
thevarious flora and faunastudies.

Archaeology

111.    Gujaratcontainsa variety of archaeologicalrelics and sites. The Archaeological Surveyof
India, Baroda, lists over 80 centrally protected monuments within or adjacent to the Command
area. More than 40 are situated in the town of Ahmedabad, and of the remainder, only 20 are
reported to be located in the command. Of particular note is the Harappan site at Lotha180 km
southwestof Ahmedabad which includesthe uniquefeatureof a brick-lined wharf. Dated between
2,200 and 1,700 BC, this was probably one of ancient India's important ports having trading
links with Mesopotamia and Egypt Alsonoteworthy isthe eleventhcenturysun templeat Modhera
adjacentto the north sideof themain canal 60km west of Gandhinagar.

112.    The Nigam has requested the ArchaeologicalSurvey of India for information on protected
sites in the command area, and these have been listed. Canal alignments are laid out to avoid
interference with any of the monuments listed. A number of monuments listed have been
excavated or are below ground (e-g., step wells) and it will be necessary to lay out the adjacent
irrigation system so as to avoid damagingseepageor submergence. In addition, in monuments at
risk,watertables should be monitored. This is particularly important in the case of Loktal. The
command areadevelopmentstudiesand thework to be doneon drainage and groundwaterare both
relevantin these respects.

                             PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                                  INDIA

                            NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT
                   WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
                                          (Credit 1553-IN)

   RESETTLEMENT & REHABILITATION OF CANAL-AFFECTED FAMILIES



Introduction

1.     The objective of the Water Delivery & Drainage Pmject was to help the Governmentof
Gujarat with the co~tructionof a firstphase of the SardatSarovarirrigation and drainagesystem
(command area). In the firstphase, approximately263km of the460km main canal networkwill
be completed. An estimated 71,757 people will be affected due to the acquisition of 21,031 ha
from them.1

2.     Thissectionaddressesthe Rehabilitation & Resettlement (R&R) of canal-affectedfamilies
(CAF) in the state of Gujarat. The evolution of R&R policy and programs is examined through
interactions between the Government of Gujarat (GOG),               the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam
Limited (SSNNL)and the Bauk. Both theR&R policy background and implementationsections
are organized from the perspectives of the Bank and the GOG, respectively. Following
implementation issues, items still pending on the policy for CAFs are discussed. Finally, the
lessonslearned from the SardarSarovarPtojectwith ~egardtoR&R arereviewed.

3.     A separate section on R&R issues associated with the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power
Project are attached to the Dam and Power Project Loantcredit Completion Report and are not
covered under this annex.

Background



4.     The total estimated number of people affected by the SSPcanal system is about 170,0002
and the area to be acquired will be about 73,910 ha (about 4% of the 1.87 million ha of the
command area). However, this figure is likely to further increase when the land required for
drains, roads, quarries and other such needs is taken into consideration3. Of the 30 Bank-
financed free standing irrigationidrainage projects involving new construction (with overall total
land take of 107,956 ha), the SSPhas the largest land acquisition           -- more than twice that of the
project having the second largest landtake (APInigation II, 41,338 ha) and one of only four
having more than 10,000 ha requirements. Whereas land acquisition (LA) typically in canal
projectsamountsto about 2-396 of the total inigated area, for the SSPit is about 596, probably due


       1       Borrower'satimotc given in it6 comments on th draft PCR.


       2       GOG estimate, quotedin C o n d ~ t ' s"Backto OfticeReport" Scptcmk 23.1992, p. 24.


       3       PCR'r estimate

to the wide right of ways (ROWS)of the main and main branch canals, 250 m and an average 160
m, as opposed to the typical widthsof 50-100 m and 10-50m, respectively.4



5.      TheGovernmentof Gujarat (GOG)has the responsibilityof providing R&R for all project-
affected families (PAFs) as well asCAFs resettling within the stateof Gujarat. The Government
of India has legislation outlining the procedure by which to acquire land and resettle displaced
people through the Land Acquisition Act of 1894amended in 1984('the Act') and the Nannada
Water DisputesTribunal (NWDT) of 1979,respectively. Although the GOG must adhere to the
Act, it has the discretion to decide the degree of R&R compensation it will provide to its PAFs,
including those affected by the project.

6.      Land for the SSPcanal construction has been and is being acquired through the Act. It is
the primary legislationgoverningthe acquisition of private lands for public use. Under Section4
the Government is required to publish a preliminary notice to declare its intention to acquire a
specif~carea of land. Land acquisition is done by the Revenue Department (RD), attached to the
SSNNL, or "Nigam". In principle, the Act provides for valuation of land based upon current
market value and acquisition through mutual agreement between the Land Acquisition Officer
(LAO) and the land-holder and determination of land value on the basis of its productivity.
However;.thisis practically never done by the LAOS.Normally the value of land is based on the
RD's recordsof past transactionsto determineappropriatecompensation

7.      The Act has been widely criticizedfor a number of reasons. In practice, past transactions
rarely represent actual replacement cost, as land is often undervalued for purposes of tax (stamp
duty) evasion. As a result,the land-holderoften pursueslegalcourt action rather than agree to the
low compensation usually proposed by the LAO. Furthermore, the Act addressesthe acquisition
process for an individual rather than for collective land-ownership. Actually, many people in a
village may sharea piece of land, therebycomplicatingthe exerciseof acquisition intendedby the
Act. Lastly, the Act doesnot discriminateacrossdifferent socioeconomicclasses. Consequently,
marginal fanners perceive the Act ai inequitable, as they are more severely affected by land
acquisitionthan are wealthierland-owners.

8.      The process and extent of land acquisitionfor CAFs differs from the PAFs, or "oustees",
in the reservoir in the following ways:

        a.     Land for the canal system has been acquired in phases as the uncertainty of canal
                alignment is gradually resolved. Therefore, compensation is provided to the
               oustees in accordance with the Act only. Differentialcompensation has resulted
               amongthe CAFs through inevitableinflation, but no rehabilitation packagebeyond
               the Act had been developed for CAFs. In contrast,reservoir land was acquired at                     . .
                once providing all PAFs with an R&R package having both land compensationand
               resettlementlrehabilitationcomponents.

        b.     TheNigam estimatestheentirecanalnetwork to require approximately 71,757 ha.
               In contrast, only 7463 ha of the total 37,590 ha of land required for the SSP
               reservoir will be in the state of Gujarat. A breakdown of land required for each
               level of the canal system reveals that only 9,051 ha is needed for the main canal


        4      Natural Ruor~cerDivision. AgriculturedN.trrrd Ruomccs D c m n t
                                                             . .
                                                view of Bank                 [Fv 1985-1992.MJKC~     1993.p. 4.
               'IbcSSP isooe of only 10 4projects. out of 8 total 141.resultingor expected to result in
                'significant rt~tllemeotof people.' p. 14.

               (with major dislocationof people), while more than fivetimes that amount (48,991
               ha)isrequired for the minor and sub-minor canals, which have proportionatelyless
               dislocation sinceCAFsmay lose only a portion of their fields. But operation of the
               farm unit can become difficult if not impossiblewhen the holding is split in two
               parcels with dmcult or no accessto one another.

9.     The NWDT issued a decision in 1979 that stipulated an R&R policy among Gujarat,
Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Under the NWDT award, Gujarat must provide the PAFs of
Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra appropriate R&R if they choose to resettle in Gujarat. The
NWDT however doesnot addressGujarat's R&R responsibilitiestowardsits own ousteesand in
particulartowardstheCAFs.

10.    The NWDT provides awardsto those who are considered oustees. An 'oustee' is defined
as follows:

        An Oustee shall mean any person who, since at least one year prior to the date of
        publication of the notification under Section 4 of the Act, has been ordinarilyresiding or
        cultivatingland or carrying on any trade, occupation or calling in working for gain in the
        arealikely to be submergedpermanentlyortemporarily.5

11.     Canal-affected familiesare not included under the NWDTaward, asthe tenn 'oustee' refers
only to those families threatened by submergence. Although the Water Delivery & Drainage
project makes no reference to oustees or to R&R policy, an alternative definition of oustee is
included in the 1985Credit and Loan AgnxmentsfortheDam and Power project:

        Oustee means any person, whether landed or landless,who...would be displaced from his
        usual habitat due to the carrying out of the project...P

12.     As the tenn "submerged"is~eplacedwith "displaced",theBankmodification of the oustee
definitionappearsto encompassCAFs. However, as the Legal documents of the Water Delivery
and Drainage Project did not include such a defmition the Government of Gujarat, heeding the
NWDT rewarded theCAFsmonetarycompensationunder theexistingAct only. Consequently,
no special provisions were developed forCAFs under Gujarat's own R&R policy.



13.    Guidelineswere outlined by the Bank in 1980concerning involuntary resettlement. This
statementrecognized theresettlement needs of CAFs:

        Resettlement of people is sometimes necessary in order to execu&...the construction of
       canals, highways,transmission linesand the like (OMS 2.33, para. 3).
                    ..
Additionally,               - beyond
                        *              resettlementonly- was introduced:
        ...themajor objective is to ensure that settlers are afforded opportunities to become
       established and economically self-sustaining in the shortest possible period, at living
        standardsthat at leastmatch those before resettlement(OMS 2.33, para. 18).

                                                   .. .
       5       -.                                                                              hues Reptnt
               by tbe     of tbc Executive Diratm (R),S S m Vdodan, Gujarat.Datai February 1992,p.6.


       6       Development Credit A m e a t 1552-INdatd May 10.1995.Article 1. Section l.OZ(g).

The policy also explicitly recognized that a large percentage of displaced people would require an
agriculturallybased resettlementpackage.


 14.    In 1982the Bank developed an OMS that also addressedthe direct needs of tribal people.
The statement also emphasized the responsibility of the Borrower to implement R&R measures
with respect to tribal people, who in the case of the project are mostly Bhil and Nayaks, axe about
 1096of theCAFpopulation (and much largerpercentagesof the PAFpopulations):

        The Bank will assist projects only when satisfied that the Borrower can implement
        measures that will effectively safeguard the integrity and well-being of the tribal people.
        (OMS 2.34, para 5).

Thispolicy statementalso addressed the need to have tribal people participate in the decisions
affecting them (OMS 2.34, para. 11). The activitiesprescribed for tribal-specific R&R includesan
anthropological pre-feasibility study (OMS 2.34, para 10). Furthermore, the capability of the
designated agency to implement a tribal componentshould be assessed at project appraisal (OMS
2.34, para. 12). Additionally, the implementation process should be extended beyond the time-
frameof the project itself and should be closely monitored (OMS 2.34, para. 13).

15.     As with R&R in general, tribal issueswere not addressedin project preparationfor the SSP
canals project, although policies were in place for bo.th in the early 1980s to address the
rehabilitation needs of both tribal and non-tribalCAPS.

R&R Policy at the Time of Credit Negotiations

16.     Negotiations fortheproposed Water Delivery &Drainageproject were held in Washington
in November 1984. The Agreed Minutes of the Negotiations between the Bank and the
Governments of India, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra did not mention the
resettlement and rehabilitation of canal-affected families. The May 1985 Development Credit
Agreement establishedbetween the GO1and the Inpational Developznent Association alsofailsto
mention an R&R component for CAF.

17.     Similarly the SAR for the Water Delivery & Drainage Project of February 1985        -- while
recognizing the need to stipulate policy guidelines for the R&R of reservoir-affected families
(Supplementary Data Volume, Part I, p. 63)    -makes    no mention of R&R forCAFs, includingthe
displacement of familiesor thecostof their R&R

18.     Although neitherxsettlement nor xehabilitation issueswas explicitly addmsedat the time
of appraisal, the Borrower's central assumption appeared to be that cash compensation, provided
under theprovision of the Act, would be sufficientfor CAFs. Canal wnstmction was perceived as
different from the dam as the canal does not require disruptive resettlement of entire villages. It
was also believed that most of the affected families would continue to live in the command area.
Thus, unlilcethef d e s displaced by theSSPxservoir, the CAFswould benefit directly from the
irrigation and drinking water facilities. As a result, the total impact of resettlement would be less
severe in the canal area Theseconclusionswere made however without the benefit of a thorough
socioeconomicanalysisof the commandarea or the amountof land lost by each individualCAF.

19.     The Borrower's and Bank's rationale behind overlooking CAFs at the time of appraisal
was the belief that these would be adequatelycompensated under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.
Later, during project implementation, the Borrower made the followingdistinctionsbetween PAFs
and CAFstojustify its position:

        a      PAFs generally undergowholesale resettlement. CAFs, may not have to relocate at
               all;

        b.     PAFsgenerally lose their entire way of living as their socioeconomicenvironment
               is essentially changed dramatically. The socioeconomic environment of CAFs
                remainslargelyunaltered;

        c.     If PAFsdo not relocatein thecommandarea,they will not receive benefitsfrom the
               SSP. Since most of the CAFs remain in the command area, they will receive the
               benefits of irrigation and improved water supply;

        d.      Sincethe reservoir is being constructed in primarily a tribal and relatively remote
                area, restricted communication often impedes the PAFs' understanding of R&R
                issues. In contrast, CAFs generally live close to urban areas, when communi-
                cationandunderstanding of R&R rights are better; and      .


        e.      PAFs typically have a fairly homogeneous agricultural economy and thus are
                susceptibleto changes in their environment which may si-cantly          affect their
                livelihood. In contrast, CAFs have greater diversity of skills and are therefore
                better able to acclimate themselves to a new environment.

Implementation of R&R Policy for CAFs               -  Bank's Perspective



20.     In 1989,opposition to the SSPwasescalatingin India and elsewhereeven though support
continued, for the project, particularly in Gujarat. The main concernscentered around ensuring
long-term success of R&R through an adequate rehabilitationpolicy for PAFs. In September,
R&R policy concerns raised by the Bank's Board and various NGOs led the Bank president to
commissionan Independent Review of the Sardar SarovarProject.



21.     In 1990the Bank issued an OperationalDirectiveon InvoluntaryResettlement(OD4.30)
which addressedcomprehensiveR&R policy forboth PAFsand CAFs. Thispolicy broadened the
resettlement focus beyond hydropower and inigation projects to includeall typesof investment
operations and re-emphasized and recast the involuntary resettlement policy of 1980. Salient
objectives of the policy included minimizing involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30, para. 3) and
providing PAFs with a means to improve or restore their former standard of living, earning
capacityand production level (Od4.30, para. 3b). Additionally, the directiveaddressedthe need
to value land at replacement cost (OD4.30, para. 14-16)and to involveboth officialsand PAFs in
resettlement activities (OD4.30, para 3c-d).

22.     A Bank pre-appraisal mission for a second canalproject in mid-1992examined the R&R
issue forCAFswith respectto conformitywith OD4.30. Sincethefirstcanalproject was about to
close, the Bank highlighted the need for Nigam to comply with the Bank's latest directive on
involuntary resettlement for the proposed second canal project. The Bank also emphasized the
need to conducta carem socioeconomicanalysisof thecommandarea,to determine the extent of
disruption that would be caused by land acquisition, and to formulatea policy designed for R&R
of CAFsspecifically.

23.     In late 1991,the Bank contractedwith an anthropologistconsultant to investigate the impact
of land acquisition in the command area The consultant compared his findings to those of
consultants from the India Institute of Management (IIM), which had been commissioned by
SSNNL. The IIM report was not released by the GOG as its recommendations for providing a
conceptualframework beyond the Act for compensation of land (treating it as a productiveasset)
was found unacceptable,even though it was in line with Bank guidelineson replacement of lost
productiveassets. GOGcriticizedIIM's overstatementof thenumbers of CAFsinvolved (about
223,000 CAFS compared to the consultant's estimate of about 140,000 and the Nigam's later
official calculationsof about 170,000).7

24.     The consultantmade other recommendationsconcerning the need for: (a) a comprehensive
socioeconomicsurvey to determinepolicy; (b) the necessity to confront the 'culture of litigation'
that has grown up around theAct, perhaps by establishmentof valuationnorms and the setting up
of a valuation committeeincludingprofessionalexpertsat valuation;8 (c) a better categorizationof
CAFs, especiallywith respect to those who (as along the right bank of the main canal)will receive
no direct irrigation benefits; and (d) a better assessmentof the numbers involved, with respect to
land acquired, families effected, severity of effect, etc., possibly through an upgrading of Act-
related technologythrough computerization



25.     On a preparation mission for the SSP Canal I1 Project in January 1992, another Bank
consultant did a review of CAF issues. He constructed a detailed account of CAF status after
analyzingthe land,acquisitionprocess duringthe fmt project.

26.     The consultant emphasized the differencebetween resemoir displacement and the canal
displacement, as the latter has minimal (a) need for physical relocation, @)scopefor reducing
displacement,(c) host integration problems, and (d) needfor replacement of shelters,infrastructure
or social services. He failed to mention the serious impact canal construction can have on the
integrity of farm holdings. In many cases, even if the resulting total area of the holding appears
sufficient to maintain a satisfactory living standard, it may become difficult if not impossible to
exploitdue to the division of the holding intouneconomicalnon-contiguousunits.

27.     However while recognizingthat canaldisplacementmight be different from that caused by
submergence: (a) it stillmust be very carefullyprepared because of dislocations;(b)timely action
may be much more important; (c) there may be p t e r scope for diverse and imaginativeaction
plans; and (d) it may be possibleto conferentitlementsmore selectively.

28.     The consultant recommended generation of more detailed and reliable data on CAFs
through a sound sample survey to give baseline information about socioeconomicconditions of
CAFs throughout the command area and an inventory of private and public assets for assessing
their replacement cost. From these should flow a set of developmentalpackages for CAFs which
would be situation-specific.



        7       Or b e Independent Review's estimation of 140.000. See below.


        8       Recent estimatesindicate as many as 10,000 court crscr outstanding on LAA dicputes for SSP Canrlr.

                March 1993.

29.     In June 1992, the Independent Review published a critique of the SSP. Although this
focussed on R&R policy for those in the reservoir area, Chapter 9 of the Review's report is
devoted entirely to the R&R policy for CAFs. The Independent Review criticized the Bank for
failingto implement its own policy for CAFs asestablished within the 1980and 1990Involuntary
Resettlementguidelines Fhrmore, theReview criticized the Bank for failing at inceptionof the
project to obtain a covenant with the GOGtocover theR&R forCAFs. The Review proposed that
it was the responsibility of the Bank to enforcecompliance with R&R policy for the CAFs. As
evidencethat tbeCAFswere overlooked,the Review stated that the Bank neglected to investigate
the scale and nature of displacement and never established benchmarks for GOG at the time of
appraisal. The Review also stated that application of the Act has resulted in inadequate
compensationamongCAFs. The Reviewfield study showed land compensationranging from Rs.
2,800 per ha to Rs. 4,500 per ha for land of similar size and quality. Additionally, the study
revealed that trees and wells were often not included in the compensation, although there was
provision for it in the Act. The Review suggested a retroactive policy for all farmers rendered
marginal or landless to receive special oustee packages       -- basically   land-for-land,under the same
policy provisionsgiven submergenceoustees-- inaddition to the monetarycompensationprovided
them sofar under the Act.

30.     TheReview suggestedthat by comparinglandacquhedand total people affected,one could
conclude that CAFs desewe similar treatment as PAFs. It stated that about 73,910 ha of land is
needed for the canal system, whereas only 37,590 ha needs to be acquired for the dam
submergence. Additionally, the Review highlighted the fact that the number of CAFs isactually
greaterthan PAFs (140,000 affectedby the canal (estimatedby the Review) as opposed to 100,000
people affected by the dam.) Finally, the Review stressed the need for an impact socioeconomic
survey,aspaucity of information constrained assessingCAFissuesand formulating solutions.



31.     In July 1992, the Bank fielded a special mission to assess the Independent Review's
report An anthropologistconsultant on the mission presented a report supporting the Review's
findingsabout lack of credibleinformationconcerningCAFs, but pointing out the inconsistency in
the Review's two recommendations for, on the one hand, treating CAFs as PAFs and, on the
other, recommending that the Bank follow its own policy of conducting a socioeconomicsurvey
        recommendingpolicy. ,/

32.     In September 1992, the Bank recognized in the document entitled "Review of Current
Status and Next Steps", that CAFs should not be placed in the same category as PAFs. It added
that relocation in the canal area would not be as disruptive as in the reservoir submergence area.
The Bank quoted the Nigam's numbers that only 24,000 out of the estimated 170,000would lose
more than 25% of their land, whereas the great majority would benefit substantially from
irrigation. TheBank alsoemphaskd that the disparity between thesocioeconomiccompositionof
the canal and submergence oustees necessitates different R&R actions. Unlike the case of
reservoir oustees who, at least within Gujarat, are almost entirely tribal,9 canal oustees are
estimated to be only 10%eibal andconcentratedonly in districtsalongthe first reachesof the canal
system. Additionally, the Bank maintained that families in the canal area are more skilled and
integrated into the market economy. As a result, CAFs generally have a larger range of options
than do PAFs.


        9      The m e istrue for Mdmrrshtrr, wbaus in MP tbr luge majority me m-hibrt .Irdwt field by
               total submersion.Tribrt in MP rre bowever Uw first to k affected MCI tboe most fisted by total
               submergence.

33.     The Bank suggested that the Nigam conducta socioeconomic survey to determinethe facts
and the needs of the various categories of CAFs. GOG agreed to carry out these studies, to be
completed as part of the March 31, 1993benchmarks, to use them as the basis for providing those
CAFs made marginal or landless by canal land acquisition with a suitable compensation and
rehabilitation package, going beyond the Act, for restoring them.totheir previous condition or
better, in accordancewith Bank directives.

Benchmarks Developed

34.     In October 1992,the Bank's Board established 19R&R benchmarks for GOG and other
state governmentsinvolved in the SSP (principally MP and Maharashtra). One Benchmark (#3)
addressed theCAFissuespecifically. Theaction to be taken by March 31,1993 is as follows:

         a      Conducta socioeconomicreview of CAFsand formulatea policy package for Bank
                review;
-        b.     Identify CAFs who have been made landless, marginal and have lost more than
                25% of their land; and

        c.      Announcean interim policy for smalland marginal farmerswhose land has already
                been acquired.



35.     On March 15, 1993,Bank consultants finalized an assessment of the progress of GOG
with respect to theR&R benchmarks set by the Bank in October 1992.. They determined that the
socioe-conomicstudy would not be completeby March 31, 1993as required. The PCR mission
was informed verbally that thesocioeconomicstudieshad been completedbut the resultswere still
not communicated by July 1994. However, an interim policy was established by GOG in
September 1992to augmentcompensationto smalland marginal farmers as well as to those losing
more than 75% of their land holdings. Provisionsfor thispolicy areoutlined in a GOGresolution
as summarized below.

Implementation of R&R Policy for CAFs



36.     Acquisitionof land for the canal projectbegan early in preparationfor actual construction,
which began in 1987. Work was begun near the dam siteat Kevadia, the southernpart of the canal
system (upstream, towards the dam),where most of the tribal CAF reside. While awareness of
CAF issues was low among these people at fust, the issue of CAFs surfaced in 1987, at a time
when non-tribal land was acquired as well. GOG's awareness of the R&R issue for CAFs was
eventually heightened by NGO lobbying on behalf of the CAFs as well as the large numbers of
courtcases disputingcompensation awards.

37.     In May 1988 GOG adopted a policy, for SSP reservoir oustees, which provided a
minimum of 2 ha of land to each family irrespective of their land-holding status prior to
acquisition. Furthermore, the policy stated that if irrigation benefits cannot be provided, each
displaced family would be allotted a minimum of 4 ha of land. At that time however no CAFs
were considered oustees. In May 1990a SSPR&R Bank review mission was informed that GOG
would not be amenable to any land-for-land arrangementsfor CAFs. Moreover, GOG maintained
that any socioeconomicsurveyof CAFs would raise compensation expectations for CAFs and was

basically unwarranted due to the marginal effect land acquisition would have on CAFs. GOG
decided however to give priority to someCAFs for employment opportunitieswithin the SSNNL.
Despite GOG's position, the review mission recommended that GOG carry out a survey to gauge
the impact of land acquisition on CAFs. This survey was later done by the India Institute of
Management(IIM).



38.     In July 1991, the Nigam commissionedthe IIMto develop a frameworkfor examining the
adequacy of R&R policy for CAFs. After studyinga sample of 164villages in areassurrounding
the main canal, IIM produced a number of criticisms in regard to CAFpolicy. It pointed out that
while the Town Planning Department was involved in determiningthe "going market rate" of land
acquiredthrough the Land PurchasingCommitteemechanismsetup for identifying and purchasing
land on the open market for PAFs, the sameeffortto establish nonnative land prices for CAFland
was not being done. IIM highlighted thetwo-fold problem of land valuation, that landholdersare
induced into undervaluing their assets by 30-5096 due to a severestamp duty on land transactions
and the Land Acquisition Officers (LAOS) rarely value land as a productive asset. Instead,
valuation is a haphazard and arbitrary process,inevitablyleading to undervaluation,rather than the
shadow market price which is the basic intention of the Act.

39. IIMrecommended a comprehensiveconceptual frameworkforestablishingvaluationnorms
that would provide: (a)compensationfor land asan asset; (b) compensation for retirement of other
factorsof production eg., family labor, bullock labor, production machinery and implements); (c)
compensation for the loss of capital gain (for future increase in income foregone); and (d)
readjustment cost to those CAFs who become landless as a result of land acquisition. The IIM
study suggested an action program of data collection for making this package operational, which
included updating prices for immovable properties on the land at replacement costs rather than
depreciation IIMemphasizedthe location value of land along the canal alignment(access to public
services, economic activities, urban centers) as a factor in valuation requiring professional
expertise, aswell as land's location in one of thirteen agro-climatic sub-zones identified within the
State. The repon also underscored the delay in setting up a productive fann unit, and the need for
including a readjustment allowance.

40.     DM'S main recommendations were for a compensation package (or packages) to be
developed, along lines suggestedin the report, for removing or reducing the subjectivityof field
persons (LAOS) in valuation. Tbe report's recommendations were not made public and were
dismissed out-of-hand without benefit of discussion, based not on the merits of the discussion
concerningcompensation packages       -the  main recommendations      --buton the argument that the
JIM had miscalculated the numbersof CAFS.



41.     In December 1991the Nigam stated that there was no reason to comply with the Bank
request to provide specialtreatmentfor canal oustees, asthe CAFs had been willing to giveup their
land all along. The Nigam reiterated that only a small percentage of landholderswould lose more
than 75% of their land; therefore, the majority of CAFs would not have to be physically moved,
nor would their socioeconomicenvironment be altered. Additionally, the Nigam argued that the
CAFs are freeto approach the courtsto enhancetheir compensationif they are dissatisfiedwith the
payments received. To demonstrate that a special CAF policy was unwarranted, the Nigam
outlined the following benefits which accrue to CAFs: (a) CAFS will benefit from a great
appreciationof land prices after irrigation begins; (b) while land on the eastern edge of the Main
Canal might not benefit directlyfromirrigation, farmers would benefit neverthelessfrom ground-
water recharge; and (c) ampleemploymentopportunitiesforeven the landless, marginal,and small

fanners affected by land acquisitionwould be generated within the command area and in project-
affected agro-industries. These arguments did not take into consideration the reduction of living
standards due to the loss of land or the division of farm holdings into two or more parcels.



42.     In August 1992 GOG responded to a number of the Independent Review's criticisms.
Once again, GOG emphasized that CAFs will be the major beneficiariesof the command area
development. GOG also stated that the number of CAFs calculated by the Independent Review
was taken from an overestimate of IIM (even though the Independent Review had done its own
independentestimatefor CAFS).



43.     While GOG was sharply critical of the Independent Review and of its findings, GOG
ultimately made prompt concessionswith regard to GOGpolicy, proposing a special compensation
package for CAFs who are small and marginal fanners losing 50% of their land or losing more
than 75% of their holdings to land acquisition. This interim policy of September 15, 1992
provided additionalfinancial assistanceto those defined as marginal and losing more than 50% of
their land. The defmition of marginal included those within the commandarea having less than 1
ha before acquisitionand left with 0.5 ha afterwards;and those outside the command area,having
less than 2 ha before and less than 1 ha after land acquisition. GOG estimated that only 750
farmers would lose all their land (of the total 170,000 CAFs). According to Nigam estimates,
another 2,000 CAFs rn expected to lose between 75% and all of their holdings. So presumably
some 2,750 CAFswould be eligiblefor the interim policy.

44.     Theinterimpolicy givesmarginalfannersthechoicebetweenaland-for-land optionof 1ha
of government land outside the command area, or 0.5 ha of government land within the command
area,provided this does not exceed what waslost to land acquisition. If theland is not available, a
monetary award may be given instead. Thisaward is determined on the basisof the price of land
fued by the Land Purchasing Committeesbuying land for PAF resettlement. The interim policy
regards the amount of money already received for land compensation as ex-gratia, and is
retrospectively applied to all CAFseligible in the Project. Regardless of prior compensation, the
eligible CAFs have the choiceto accept the amount of land offered aspart of the interim policy, or
the proxy amount of cash. GOG stipulated however that those accepting the interim policy must
withdraw any on-goingcourt casesimmediately.

45.     Sincethe policy did not providefor a clear and unequivocableland-for-land option,which
would have included theestablishmentof Land PurchasingCommitteesbuying on the open market
(as with PAF resettlement sites),the interim policy fell shortof recommendations made by the July
1992Bank mission. However, in establishinga proxy for market value equivalentto prices paid
by PAFLand Purchasing Commi#ees, it wasa step in the direction of improvingthe valuation
process, and if enough fanners opted for it, would have possibly reduced the approximately
10,000 outstandingcourtcasesrecorded as of May 1993.



46.     The Interim ~olic~'didgo some distancein mating the Bank's benchmarks for GOG with
respect to CAFs.

47.     Items (a) and (b) of para 34 however were not met by the March 31, 1993deadline. Item
(a) was however at least partially met by the Inception Report prepared by the Gandhi Labor
Institutefor the "Social Impact Analysis of Land Acquisition for SSPCanal Network." This report

proposes a frameworkfordevelopment of a comprehensivepolicy towards CAFs and establishes
the groundwork for the socioeconomicsurvey set as a benchmark by the Bank in October 1992.
This report suggests a complex rehabilitation package catering to the needs of different socio-
cultural groups within the command area. Ethnicitiesrange from mbal to caste people, with each
group having different expectations, attitudes and behavior that should be taken into account in
designing rehabilitation packages. The report proposes a land-for-land policy for tribals
concentrated along the early mches of the canal, and a more diverse set of options including
training,entrepreneurialsupport, or even cash compensationforotherCAFsthroughout the rest of
the command area. Item (b) of para 34 above was by March 31 at least partially met through a
contract between Nigam and theBureau of Economics and Statistics to conduct a survey of all
those who lose morethan 75%of their land due to land acquisition. Additionally,the Nigam had
endeavored to obtain more qualitative data on the CAFs through the Gandhi Labor Institute
socioeconomicstudy. Although the finalresultsof the above studieshave not been published, a
preliminary finding has been that a larger proportion of CAFs than thought previously has land
elsewhere, a factorpreviously not considered in determiningpercentageslost to land acquisition.
Thissuggestsasomewhatgreaterexistingcushionthanpreviouslythought J

CAF Issues Pending

48.     GOG has informed the Bank that the socioeconomicsurvey of CAFs has been completed
but the res*    were stillnot communicated to theBank by July 1994. GOG has agreed to framea
full and comprehensivepolicy (as opposed to the Interim Policy) forCAFs and to implement it in
the entirecommand area. ThePCR recommendsthat the new policy should apply not only tothe
persons affected by the construction of the canals but also to all persons affected by works and
other aspectsof command area development The policy should also apply to persons affectedby
drains, roads and quarries. It should also apply to persons whose houses and fields may be
affected indirectlythrough seepageof canalsor waterlogging due to inadequatedrainageworks.

49.        Based on the experiencegained under this and other projects, the final policy should
consider the acquisition of land by consent award based on market price together with the
allocationof an ex-gratiaamount for thepurchase of replacement land by theCAR. Theex-gratia
amountisquiredbecause the land value isbound to increasewith theadvent of irrigation; it can
be deposited in a managed account so that it becomes available to the CAF only when he has
identified the replacementland. Thisprocedureis recommended because it avoids litigation and
provides the CAFs with the financial resourcesq u h d for purchasing replacementland. It also
relieves the Governmentfromthe burden of finding and allocatingreplacementland on behalf of
the CAFs.

50.     One aspectthat would need attention while the new policy is developed,isthe possibility of
reducing the impact of land acquisition through the implementation of a land consolidation
operation. Under this process, all beneficiaries contributea smallpetcentage of their land towards
the area required for the acquisition of rights-of-way. There is no need for payment of
compensationor provision of replacement land. In addition,the processallowsfarm boundaries
to be realigned so that each holding has access to a canal for irrigation, a drain for disposal of
excess water, and a farm road for transport of inputsand outputs. Land consolidationprovides the
optimum layout at the minimum cost of infrastructure. Themain draw back to the procedureisthe
time usually required for updating the land records and redistributing the land. Farmers also
initially tend to resist the operation, but with a proper set of incentives, they can be convinced of
thebenefits. Land consolidationhas been implemented on a largescalein Punjab and Haryana in
the past, and in Orissa more recently. It has been used systematically for the development of
modem irrigationschemesin North and West Africaand Thailand.

51.     The Bank has commissioned consultants to include in an Environmental Impact
Assessment for the project an assessmentof health risksrelated to resettlementand rehabilitation,
and the on-going socioeconomic survey being conducted by the Gandhi Labor Institute will be
incorporated into the full EIA for the project. To date, there is little indication that the Interim
Policy established by GOG in September 1992has been actually implemented or what its results
have been. Additionally, a small Village Development Fund has been proposed to compensate
communitieslosing publicinfrastructuredue to canal land acquisition.

Lessons Learned

52.      Severalkey lessonscan be learned from the R&R issuesfaced in this project:

53.     The fllSt lesson is that projects involving R&R require considerable preparatory effort,
including affected persons' involvement,a sound policy base, adequate budgeting and fmancing,
good R&R component Besign, pmise and detailed legal documentconditionalityand consistently
good supervision to increase the chances of success. Particularattension should be given to the
application of the prevailing Bank guidelinesduringpreparation, appraisal and negotiations of large
multi-purposeprojects (and others). If the guidelines change during project implementationand
supervision,the Bank shoud approach the Bomwer to see in what way the new guidelinescan be
applied.

54.     The           lesson is that canal-affected personsneed to be adequately compensated and
provided with the additionalresourcesfor purchasing land to replace what they have lost. Special
attention shouldbe given to the impacts of canals, drainsor roads on the viability of farm holdings.
Finally, alternativesolutionssuch asland consolidationand field boundary realignmentshould be
considered,at leastin a pilot fom, to minimizeland acquisition and facilitateaccessof holdings to
irrigation, drainageand roads.

55.     The        lesson is that there     some differences between canal-affected and reservoir
affectedpersons. Whereas,in the first instance personsare usually partially affected and villages
often not at all,in thesecondinstance,persons and villages rn fully affected and must be relocated
often in a completely diffe~entenvironmentand habitat. Though the basic objectivesand principles
should remain thesamein each case,the substanceof such polices may differ.

                            PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                              INDIA

                           NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT DAM AND POWER PROJECT    -
                    (Credit 1553-IN & Credit 1552IN/Loan 2497-IN)


                         REVISED COST-BENEFITS ANALYSIS



Introduction

1.      Nearly 5 million people will benefit directly from the irrigation provided by the
developmentof the SardarSarovarProject Most of thesefamiliesapoor and spendtheir livesin
a harsh and hostileenvironment. Rainfall in most of the area is barely enough for a single wet-
season crop. Although in total the rainfall might be sufficientin some areas, much of it runs off
the land during short and intense storms. During the long dry-season, crops cannot be grown
without irrigation, and water for drinking isquickly depleted,especiallywhere the groundwateris
unusable. Every year some 1.5 million head of cattle are herded into the northern part of the
project area in searchof fodderand water. But the long dry-season and the risk of failuresof the
monsoon rains makes this a tenuous existenceforthe pastoralists.

2.      Drought is an annual event, and people and livestock often have to depend on water
trucked in by the state. There are a wide array of diseases endemic in the rural population and
traceable to malnutrition and d     e drinkingwater. A reliable and safesupply of domesticwater
will benefit some 30million people who frequently experiencesevere water shortagesin the dry
season. Gujarat is one of the fastest growing industrial states in India and there is a rapidly
growing demand for industrial water. These rising demands for imgation, livestock, rural,
municipal, and industrial water are outstripping the groundwater resource and the existing
reservoirs. The present situation not only precludes further growth but is simply not sustainable
because of the over-exploitation of the groundwater resource in the water-short areas. These
conditionsexist in the p-ce     of the Narmada Basin's vast unexploited resources and, therefore,
the Union and StateGovernmentsa~ committedto the Basin's development.

3.      It appearsfrom the project design that Gujarat's      and most important objectivewas to
give priority to the social benefits of the project over any other consideration. The strategy
consistedin spreadingwater overthe largest areapossible in orderto reach the maximum number
of people even at the cost of reducing the economic rate of return. This strategy was consistent
with the trend of thought that has existed in India since colonial times and which, to someextent,
continues even today. In those days irrigation schemes were mostly built for famine relief and
protective irrigationratherthan for productive imgation.

4.      The second objective for Gujarat, appears to be its desire to implement a large multi-
purpose project includinga largecommand area of 1.8 million hectaresnet, a very ambitiouswater
supply scheme for domestic, municipal and industrial uses for 30 million people and a power
generation station of 1,450 Mega Watts. To satisfy the full water requirements of such a large
project, a second large reservoir, known as the Narmada Sagar Dam, is to be constructed
simultaneously upstream in MP. The large project concept prevailed during the NWDT
proceedings and finally was accepted afterthe distributionof water, costs and benefits satisfiedall
riparian states.

5.      The updated economic analysis shows that the economic benefits resulting from power
generationare somewhat higherthan those derived for irrigation. The analysisalso showsthat the
economic benefits derived from municipal and industrial water supply are likely to be more
substantialthan initially anticipated. As the main canal and command area are still in their initial
stages of construction,there is still time to readjust the irrigationand water supplycomponentsso
that this project could become economicallymore profitable. This would be possible by cutting out
someof the higher cost locationswithin thecommand areal. This would have littleor no effecton
the ERR. On the other hand, the hydropoweraspects of the projects have reached a point at which
adjustments are no longer possible. The dam height, the design of the riverbed powerhouse and
the specificationsof the turbine generatorsareinterlinked and have reached a stageof construction
and manufacturing which prevents any changeswithout major cost implications. Furthermore, as
the characteristicsof the Sardar Sarovar Dam and its power component are part of the NWDT
award, any changes in their conceptwill require the agreementof all four party states.

Revised Economic Analysis

6.      The revised analysis, which wascompleted in April 1993as part of the benchmarks setby
the Board, finds an Economic Rate of Return (ERR)of 12.2%. Thisis marginallylower than the
13% found in the original SARanalysis,but faUswithintherangeof acceptableERRSfor a project
of thistypeexhibiting a very largescaleof benefits relative to any feasiblealternativesand having
substantial multiplier effects. The rate is moderately sensitiveto the timing of upstream storage
development in the foreseeablefuture. The ERR would be about 1percentage point lower in the
absence of Narmada Sagarbut this would assumeappropriateadjustmentof thesizeof the irrigated
command area. It should be noted thathad the SSP been conceived as a power project alone, the
ERR would have been 14.2%. The command area aloneexhibits a somewhatmarginal ERR.
However, it has alwaysbeen apparent that the ERR of the irrigation component could have been
substantially higher if certainhigher cost zonesin thecommand areawere reduced or omitted and if
the availablewater had been concentrated more heavily on a smaller area2. The ERR excluding
such costs is estimatedat 17.4%.



7.      A spreadsheetsimulationmodel was built to carryout the revised analysis. In terms of its
functions, the model is similar to the one used in the SAR economic analysis. However, the
module to derive random distribution of the project ERR was not included. The water balance
calculation and the calculation of irrigation intensity are also simplified. Using the SAR
input/output data,the ERR &rived by thismodel is almostidentical to that projected in the SAR,
verifying that thesesimplificationshave not altered the basic structureof the model. An economic
analysis can only be part of the overall decision-making process. A.t the end of the paper a
qualitativediscussion isincluded to test whetherthemults of thisanalysisseem sensiblegiventhe
changessince the original analysis. It is probablethat the efficiency of water transmission to the
field will be lower than that projected in the originalanalysis. However, someof thelosses would
be picked up in groundwater and over time one could expect improvements in efficiency with
advanced technologies and appropriate incentives. However, it would be wise to be circumspect


        1       'IbeBorrower draws the attentionth.ta high ERR ism t thonly criteriaforjustifying   Aproject. In tk
                cue of SSP. . o c i ~ ~ ~ ~ w m i c
                                            conci&.tionc were         taken into account.


        2       ?beBorrowerstraces that tk questionof reducing th command .ruin tk higher costflowerbenefit
                moer dou w t wise s    k the objective of tk project is to makc dequate w a r availabk to drought
                prone areas.

about the development of the final 30%of the command area3. Until performance data are
availableon theearlier portions. Any reduction of efficiencyis likely to have some impacton the
ERRbut probably itwould not belargesincethelostwater toseepagewillenlarge therechargeon
which groundwater extraction can draw and, as suggested above, reductions in size of the
command area shouldcomefrom the lowerreturnareas.



8.      The analysis is based on adjustmentsto the SAR economicanalysis to accountforchanged
quantities, prices and phasing since the 1984analysis. The base year of the analysis has been
brought to 1992. Year 1 of the analysis is 1984 when the investments actually started on the
SardarSarovarDam. The costs incurred before 1992were inflated to 1992cost levels. Costsare
in Rs. million and have been adjusted from financial to economic prices using a standard con-
version factor of 0.8. Theanalysis includesthe construction of theSardarSarovarand a &ate of
the Nannada Sagar Dams which are both required to provide regulated water for irrigation and
power generationup to the quantitiesprojected. Theenvironmentalcomponentof the analysishas
paid particular attention to the environmentalcosts or benefits which might have been under-
estimated or omittedin the original analysis,such asestuarychanges,fsheries costs and benefits,
fuelwood and wildlife. Information reviewed or used at the time of appraisal, or as part of this
review, iscontainedin a wide rangeof documentsboth formal and informal.

Project Costs

9.      ConstructionCosts. economicinvestmentcosthasbeen estimatedinthisanalysis
                             The total
at Rs. 136.5 billion at the 1992price level (see Table 17). The costs incurred before 1992were
inflated to 1992prices with constructionGNP deflators. No physical contingencieswere applied
for the costs already accrued. For future costs,physical contingency rates were re-estimated and
applied for differentcost components(see Table 17).

10.     Dam.Thedamconstructionperiodis17years. Inrealtermsthecurrentlyestimated
costof thedam, saddle dam andtunnel islower than theoriginalprojection by about496. Thecost
of the dam itself, on the basis of the bid price, was lower than the original projection (by about
6%) but some contingencies have been retained. The 17%share of thecosts for the Nannada
Sagar Darn allocated to the SSP project were taken from estimates by the Nannada Valley
Development Authority.

11.                                   The SAR assumptiollsinflated to 1992are used in deriving
the opportunity cost of the reservoir-submerged area and the area used by the canal system in the
CCA. An assumption for R&R costs of Rs. 150,000per family for 25,000 families has been
used. This excludes land purchase costs which are treated as a transfer cost and also excludes
those elements of infrastructurein the resettlement village that go beyond what is a replacement
cost. Sinceboth items are relativelysmallcomparedto the total costs, furtherelaborationon these
cost estimatesis not considered worthwhile.

12.     Power:ThisitemincludestheupdatedpowercostsfortheRiverbedandCanalHead
Power Houses, the weir, dikes, etc. and transmission. Transmissioncosts, including annualized
capitalcost and O&M,were estimated and added. The arm-capitalcost was estimatedto be
aboutRs. 400million per year. The otherassumptionsof the SAR analysis remain unchanged.
          . .
13.                              : Thisitem includesupdated costestimateson the main canal,
branch % % $ % t e r n             and command areadevelopmenton the basis of recentconancts.
These suggesthighercosts than originallyestimated Thesereal cost increases havebeen projected

into the future    the analysis. However, it is believed that as a result of changes in the way the
contractsat.e packaged and improvementsin efficiencywith increasing experience,futw unit costs
nay be able to be reduced.

 14.    -:                         Table27 sets out each of the main environmental impacts with
a cost column, a benefit column and a net column in 1989prices. In transferring these to the
overalleconomic analysisthese have been adjusted to 1992values. Thistable only includesitems
eithernot covered,or inadequatelycovered,in the original analysissuch as wildlife losses, public
health costsand benefits, cost of moving monuments. The originalanalysisdid include a valuation
of forest loss and agriculturalland loss. It omitted any possible fuheries losses in the estuary but
also omitted fuheries gains in the reservoir and command area Both of these have now been
added. Catchmenttreatment costs are not included; catchment treatment is needed with or without
the dam and carries itsown benefitsin termsof i     n   h agriculturalproduction. Thesehave been
estimated in other catchment treatment projects in India to have adequate rates of return. The
evidencefrom surveysindicatestbat thereare no rareor endangered specieslikely to suffer,but, to
be conservative,an amenityvalue for lost plants and wildlifeand a separateminor forestproducts
value has been included over and above the opportunitycost value estimated for the lost forest
land. Summingall these itemsgives a value to the lost forest areasof Rs.4,818 per ha per annum
in 1989prices which is probably an overestimate given the &graded natureof the forest area For
example, in the Gujarat ecosystem study area, the biomass of the forest areas is 16% of what it
would have been if those areas had been grade 1forest. Furthermore, since most of the higher
measured biomassareaslie outside the submergencezone, the percentage would almost certainly
be lowerfor the submergencezone itself.

Benefits

15.    PowerBenefits: The economic price of power was estimated asRs.1.39kWh (see Table
14). Thisis higher in real terms than the original analysis. Thewillingness-to-pay approach used
in the SAR was followed in this analysis. Estimates on the willingness-@pay and averageprices
for the various segments of the power market were updated by using the findings of the latest
available study (SAR of Second Maharashtra Power Project). This methodology takes the
economic value of the average tariff in each consumer category and adds half the additional
economiccost of the alternative of private supply to accountfor the "consumersurplus".

16.                f PowerBenefits: Power benefits are based on the same quantities of power
assumed in the original analysis. The original SAR equations were used to calculate the power
generation. Power benefits were assumed to startin 1997, Estimatesof water released for riverbed
power generation were obtained by deducting diversions from the total sourceof water, i.e., the
mean river flow minustheupstream diversion and the diversion of SSP. Due to expected &lays in
upstream water development, the SAR estimate on upstream diversion was adjusted downward
substantially,with the diversion in 2026 reduced from 24,300 to 16,000million m3. To factorin
the impact of the delays in the construction of the Narmada SagarDam, water released for power
generation was reduced by 25%during the first fiveyears of the operations.

17.    Theincrementalpower benefits are shown inTable 15.Thisis higher in real terms than the
originalanalysis. The SardarSarovarProject,while less ableto meet purely peak and firm power
during the later years as the discharge of water becomes increasingly dictated by the irrigation
demands, can in the early years meet substantial quantitiesof peak power demand. However, to
be conservative, a peak power adjustment coefficient has not been used. The quantitiesof water
available for power (and irrigation) are likely to be greater in the earlier years than originally
projected since the rate of useof water upstream now seems likely to be lower than was assumed
in the original water modelling, although it is the pattern of flow as well as the quantity that is

                     . .
18.                                    :Therevisedcalculationsassumethesameincrementalyieldestimates
used in%%$%%%Ysis.                           The original yield assumptions were reviewed and considered
reasonable: for example, in 20 years time, wheat yielding 3.5 tonsha and paddy yielding 4.0
tonslha. Yields in the less suitable soil w,represented by three of the thirteen zones identified,
where there would be risk of waterlogging and salinity should the drainage investments and
conjunctive use for some reason fail to achieve the designed result, were adjusted downwards by
25% in the original analysis to allow for the more difficult conditions. This assumption was
maintained in the revised analysis. The original analysis assumed few high value crops (fruit and
vegetables together account for only about 4%of the area at full development). This assumption
was maintained in the vised analysis because of the spreading of water over a large area.
However, it would not be justified with a smaller command area particularly with the
industrialization of Gujarat and its likely orientation toward export markets in the future.
Furthermore, the original analysis allowed for little increased cropping intensity to use the large
surplus quantities of water that would be available for irrigation in the early years before the
irrigated command area is fully developed. This assumption was also maintained because it may
be preferablenot to create water rights in the upstream areasof thecommand areawhich would be
difficult           to withdraw at a laterstageof development. It was assumed that excesswater will be used
mostly for power generation which in any case gives a better return than irrigation. No assumption
of improved efficiencyof water useover time was ma&, althoughin reality it is likely that drip and
sprinkle irrigationwill graduallyincreaseprovided water is appropriately priced.

19.                a.               . .
                                                       Due to the delays in project implementation, irrigation
benefits are assumed to start in 1995, three years later than the SAR estimate. An 11-year
command area (CCA) development period is assumed compared to 10years estimated by the
Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd.(SSNNL) and 12 years estimated in the SAR. Groundwater
development was also postponed by three years. The build-up pattern for each annual irrigation
block remains unchanged. The way this is handled within the model, ie., adding one phased
build-up into another effectively, results in an irrigation development over about 15 years. To
derive the overall benefit pattern, analyses we= canied out separately for the with and without
project cases, and are further divided to reflect the irrigated and rainfed conditions. Full project
completion isassumed by 2008/2009as against 200312004foreseen by theBorrower.

20.                Delays in the whole irrigation component would not reduce the overall economic rate of
return; in fact, it would raise it by allowing more water for a longer period to be used for high
value power generation. The irrigationoutcomethat would affect the economicrate of return more
would be if investments in irrigation command area development at the lower end of the system
were to lag significantly behind the expenditure on the main canal, branch canals and distributaries
at the upper end and the middle of the system, since under those circumstances the benefits would
be delayed in relation to the main investments. The prices used for the irrigation benefits are
updated to 1992prices with grains priced at a neutral import/export parity price and cotton atexport
parity. Non-traded commodityprices such as vegetablesand legumes a~ at estimated 1992prices.
                       . .
21.                                                                     :Ithad beenappreciatedatthetimeofthe
earlier a                      i           n            a             lr a b l y underestimated. Following further
study and discussions with consultants there remains a methodological difficulty which has
significantimplications(on the positive side) for the economicsof the project. Thedifficultyisthat
on the scale proposed for M&I water there simply are no practical and reliable water supply
alternatives to the project which would be valid for a least-cost alternative calculation. A smaller


                   4      'Ibe Borrowerdoer wt acceptthe rsrumptionthat development upstreammay be slower thm originally
                          projected.

 open canal conveyancefor M&I water alone from the Narmada River would appear, in theory, to
 be the lowest cost alternative. However, in practice it is considered unworkable since the water
 would get diverted en route by farmers. It is also extremely costly. Piping water is even more
,costly. Dedhization would
 appear to be the only practical alternative, but this is also very costly. The lack of viable
 alternativessuggestsa high value for M&I water.

 22.      The valuation of domestic water in the original analysis appears low in relation to l h l y
 willingness-@pay criteria and the socialadjustmentalternativesin its absence which presumably
 would require at least a portion of the people to move out of the area. (The original valuation in
 1992prices at the point of intakeinto the local system was only Rs. 0.96 per m3 at the start of the
 project period (i.e., less than three-hundredths of a US cent per m3 rising over 30 years with
 increasingwater scmity to Rs.3.68 per m3(about one-tenth of a US cent per m3. Thisappears to
 be a substantial underestimategiven the severe impacts of m n t droughts on these areas which
 required trucking of water to villages and seriouslossesof livestock).

 23.      For the purposes of this analysis, the original SAR methodologywas adopted but the cost
 was escalated by assuming one-third of the water would come from desalinization. The present
 value of theM&I water is thus raised by about 60%in realtermsover the SAR estimate. TheM&I
 water benefits stream is given in Table 15. Further work on this valuation is needed. Thisis a
 casewhere there areno alternativeson thesamescale.

 24.      m o o d Benefits: Benefits from fuelwoodproduction from canal-sideand on-farm trees
 were omitted in the original analysis. It is estimated that there will be about 36,000 ha of canal-
 side plantationsand a substantialincremental number of on-farm trees per hectare growing at a
 fasterrate than in the "withoutproject" drylands situation dueto the irrigation. Fuelwood is valued
 at Rs. 500 per ton and poles at Rs. 30 per piece. Average net revenue from the canal-side
 plantations with 50% of production going for poles and 50% for fuelwood is estimated at Rs.
 4,132 p a ha. Average -mental        net benefitsfrom fuelwood/poleproduction from on-faxm trees
 isestimated at Rs. 150per hectare per year for the 1.8 million ha command area Benefits would
 reach their maximum levelin theyear 2010. Castshave been deducted to derivenet benefits.

 25.      FisheriesFisheriesbenefitsandcostswereomittedintheoriginalanalysis.Costs
 of possible fisheries losses in the estuary are included in the Environment Costs column (Table
 21). Potentially, fisheries net benefits are significant due to the large volume of water and the
 water control availablefrom the project and due to thehigh and rising value of fish, with pond-
 grown prawns as a high value export product. The projected benefits would come from the
 followingsources: (a) the fesewoir itself, (b)canals, (c) thedevelopmentof fish and prawn ponds
 within thecommand area, (d) possibly the development of shrimpproduction using drainagewater
 to regulatethe salinityin brackish water ponds near thesea, and (e) cage fisheriesin both reservoir
 and canals. Assumptions are from the analyses done for the fisheries component of the earlier
 proposed Narmada Basin DevelopmentProject: reservoir yield to stabilize at 50kg pqr hectare
 after an initial trophic burst and subsequent trophic depression phase; 2000 ha of fish ponds and
 1000ha of prawn ponds by Year 21 with net benefits rising thereafter at 4% annually; associated
 fish production at 30% of thenet benefit level of prawns; a small canal cage and capturefishery;
 and, developmentcosts (plansare already quite far advanced) of Rs.150million over 8years with
 continued operatingcasts thereafter.

 Economic Rate of Return

 26.      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR)is estimated at 12.4% (Table 22) which, as noted
 earlier, fallswithin theacceptablerange for a largemulti-purposeregionalproject of this type. In a
 recent study on India (HazeU and Haggblade 1990)the multipliereffect was estimated at Rs. 0.66

value added in non-farm activitiesin rural areas and rural towns for every Rs. 1.00value added in
agriculture and Rs. 0.86 value added in the national non-farm economy. Furthermore, the
multiplierwas found to be higher in irrigationthan rainfedagricultureand to rise over time with
increasing development (e.g., the multiplier was Rs. 1.06 in hjab). With respect to a decision
about whether to continue the projects (dam and irrigation) beyond this point in time, assuming
costs alreadyexpendedare sunk costs,the ERR of the project is about 17.4%. As a power project
alone, the ERR of SSP is 14.2%. Tables 30, 31, and 32 give results of sensitivity analyses. As
indicated by the tables, because of the multi-purpose nature, the project is relatively stable to
changed assumptions.

27.     The ERR of SSP without the Nannada Sagar Dam would depend on what other related
changesoccur above SardarSarovarDam and in the command areadevelopmentin responseto an
indefinite &lay     constructing Nannada Sagar. There are many different scenarios, most of
which would require further water modellingto defme. No modellingof a "Sardar SarovarDam
only" scenariowas run since it was part of an integrated package of developments. However,
assuming delays in .Narmada Sagar, approximations can be made. Assuming that, without
Narmada Sagar,the irrigation benefits at Sardar Sarovarwould be reduced by a flat rate of 30%
and power by a flat rate of 25% for thefull %year analysisperiod (theseare somewhat greater
reductions than the modellingactuallyindicated), assuming that the projected water use upstream
would develop as originally modelled in accordance with the NWDT water allocations to the
participating states, and assuming that the command area investments would be adjusted in the
followingway: by lowering main canal expenditureby 0%(i.e., assuming the wholecanalwould
be completed), branch canals by 15%. and all investments below that by 25%, the ERR for the
Sardar Sarovar Projects would fall by a little over 1%. Note that reductions in the size of the
command area have a positive impact on the ERR since they release water for the higher value
power benefits.

Discussion

28.     Economicanalysisneedsto be tempered with sensiblejudgment. Do these results appear
sensible given the changes since the original analysis? Yes, they appear to be. Costs have aQt
escalated dramaticallyin real terns, asmany criticshave suggested. The originalanalysis allowed
forquitesubstantialphysical contingenciesdespitetbe advanced stateof design of the dam. Those
itemssuch as resettlement (R&R) and environmentalcosts, which are now valued at considerably
higher levels, are not large relative to the substantial scale of the overall project cost and benefit
streams; R&R, for example, represents even now less than 5% of the total project cost and
environmentalcosts ire less. Increased land values for R&R, one of the main escalation items
usually quoted as being damagingto the economics, donot in factaffect the economicsat allsince
thesearesimply transfercostswithintheeconomy. Catchmenttreatmentcosts, often said to be an
environmentalcost to the dam, are not a valid economiccost because such catchment treatment
carries its own benefit stream in terms of increased agricultural production from moisture
conservation and reduced on-site erosion and adequateeconomic rates of return are anticipated
from such projects elsewherein India

29.     With respect to sensitivity to environmental parameters, if higher than projected
environmental costs in and around the submergence zone or in the estuary were to have a
significant effect on lowering the ERR,they would have to be orders of magnitudehigher than
they appear to be. This would only appear to be conceivable if there was a very rare plant or
animal speciesthreatenedwith extinctionand accorded avery high value.


        5      Ib;BomwanotesthattbeNWDThadurimltr+l ductionof17.8% intbeSSPbeacfitrwithouttbe
               ngulatod reksresfmm tbe N          d SaguRuer~oir.TbcBorrowerfurtberi~diututhat  is no
               possibility for reducing thc size of the wmmaod area.

30.    Table 22 givesresults of sensitivity tests to implementation delays. Any future delays in
the development of the irrigation command area will not affect the ERR much unless they are
delays in the final stage of developing the distributary and on-farm elements                                to the
investmentson themain and branch canals. This is a schedulingissuewhich project management
is aware of and which management information systems are designed to deal with. The multi-
purpose characteristicsof the project give considerable economic stability because any delays in
development of the irrigation system, which in a pure irrigation project would have a serious
impact on the economics, would in this project leave more water for the higher value power
component.

31.    With respectto alternatives.a number of alternativedam sizes, dam numbers and locations
were considered by the NannadaTribunal, which sat for ten years. The smalldam alternativeoften
suggestedis not an altemativein thesensethat smalldams could replace the Sarclar SarovarDam.
Thetypical technicaland economiccharacteristicsof small damsarewell known (sconomic ratesof
return have oftenin fact been marginal; forexampletheKarnatakaTanksProject gavean ERR of at
most 4%). They cannot in this part of India provide the scale of benefits sought because the
number of efficient dam sitesdo not exist, nor could smalldams provide water from theNannada
Basin to Gujarat on any scale. Furthermore, their biggest drawback is that it is in pnxisely those
years which both people and governmentsare currently most concerned about                     -- thedry    years --
when the value of production and domesticwater isat a premium, that the small damsfailbecause
they do not filland cannotcarry water acrossyears. They are a useful complementbut they cannot
deal with the scale of India's needs. Groundwater is also not an alternative; it is a complement
which has in factbeen designedintotheproject to establish a conjunctiveuse strategp.




       6       Conjunctive use u o be d e f d u tbeoptimumur of sllrfre wltcr, goundw.tn .Dd&all        under
               coditionr what tbe only significmt practical public interventionia tbe way that water ia diamibuted in
               time and space in the aurfocc system.

                                                                                                  --...
                                                                          WARMADA RIVER DEVELOPHEWI-CUJARAI
                                                                           ..._.-.--....--...---.---_..-~.
                                                                                 Update o f Economic A n a l y s i s

                                                  D e r i v a t i o n o f Econnnic P r i c e s o f l r n d a b l e Crops n r d F e r t i l i z e r s
         ....... ...
                                                                                 Paddy         Wheat         Cot t o n       Cot t o n G r o m d n ~ ~tl rl oi g e n Phos.  Potash
                                                                                                           ( m c d i u n ) ( s h o r t )
  _ _ _ _ . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - - . . . . . - . . . . . . - - - . - - . - . . - - . - - . - . - ~ . - . . ~ - - . ~ - ~ ~ . ~ - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . - ~ ~ . . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - ~

u o r l t h s r k e t p r i c e 1995 a/
O l r a l i t y a d j u s t m e r ~ t
vor Irtnarket e q u i v a l e n t
I n t e r n a t i n n a l , s h i p p i n g
C I f f f O B p r i c e , B m b a y
C I f / f O B p r i c e , B d a y b /
D n n e s t i c h a m i l i n g / t r a n s p t .
P r o c e s s i n g r a t i o c /
v a l u e o f by.product d/
P r o c e s s i n g r a t i o b y - p r o d u c t
~ r e c e s s i n qc o s t
v h o l r s a l e p r i c e raw p r o d u c t
l r a n s p r t f r o m farmgate
farrrqare p r i c e
                                     say




I / lBRD comnodi t.y                 m r i c e f o r e c a s t s ,    Novcrrber 1992, In c o n s t n n t l W 2 USS.
       V h r a t :    Canadien No. 1, W e s t e r n Red S p r i n g ,                  FOB l h u d e r Bay
        Rice:       I h a i , m i l l e d ,  5 % broken,            FOB Bangkok
       C o t t o n :    ( o u t l o o k "A,'    I n d e x ) , niddl i n g (1-3/12"),             CIF Europe
       Groundnut$: any o r i g i n ,                 s h e t l e d , C l F Europe
        N i t r o g e n : Urea, bagged,               100 W.U.        Europe
        Phosfl~ate: l r i p l e S u p r Phosphate,                       b u l k , FOB US Cul f
       Potash: M u r i s t e o f Potesh,                    b u l k , TO8 Vancouver
b / At RS             p e r U S I
C /     N u t r i e n t c o n t e n t l o r f e r t i l i r e r s
d/ C o t t o n seeds l o r cotton,                     d o m e s t i c w h o l e s a l e p r i c e e s t i m a t e ,  in economic terms

                                              I R O I A
                                              -....
                              HARMADA RIVER DEVELOPI4EMI-GUJARAT
                               .--.-.......--..--..*-.--....-.-.
                                  Update of Econanic Annlysis
                                  .--.---.-.--.-...-...-.----
              Sunnary o f P r i c c s for Economic and f l n a n c i a t Analysis
                                    (in constant I992 ruppees)
. . . . . . . . - . - - . - - ~ . - - - - - . - . ~ . - - ~ . - . - - - ~ . . - - - . . - - - . - - - . . ~ - ~ . . ~ ~ . ~ ~ ~ . ~ . ~ ~ ~ ~ . ~ .
                                                                                 Seeds
                                                                             ----.----.----
                                           Econanlcl i n a n c l a l      EconmIcFlnanclnl
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(Rs/ton)(Rs/ton). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                           . . . . . . . . .               (Rs/kg) (Rslkg)

Crops
.....
            Paddy                            4,320      4,164                 6.68    4.52
           Wheat                             4,550      4,620                 5.68    4.73
            Sorghun ( l o c a l )            3,550      3,548                 4.52    4.52
            Sorghun (hybrid)                 3,335      3,333                14.62   18.28
            Pearl M i l l e t                4,469      4,466                14.62   18.28
            Pigeon Pea                       9,722      9,715                 7.96    7.96
            Cram                             9,917      9,910                 6.89    6.88
            Mung Beans                       9,006      9,000                12.28    9.03
            Clustsr Beans                    7,850      9,715                 6.36    7.96
            C r oundnut                      3,270 11,186                    14.84   16.13
            Must a r d                       8,382      9,111                14.84   16.13
            Castor Beans                     7,930      6,908                13.11   11.40
            Cotton (short staple)              5770 12,141                    2.46    6.73
            c o t i o n (medim Staple)      10,860 14,474                   146.22  182.77
            Iobacco ('Bldil)                 8,146 10,183                    0.034    0.04
            Sugarcane                            404       505                0.24    0.30
            Bananas                          1,290      1,613                 0.28    0.34
            C h l [ l l e s                 28,800 36,000                    189.22 236.53
            Ott ions                         1,290      1,613                94.61  118.27
            Potatoes                          1,634     2,043                  3.61    4.52
            fodder sorghun                        215      269                 4.52    4.52
            fodder Lucerne                        378      473               27.52   34.40



            W i t rogen                      13,770     7,642
            Phosphate                        12,100     7,642
            Potash                            9,130     6,209
            Carpost                                34        43
            Labar (person-day)                  16.8     25.0
            Bullocks (pairday)                     52        65

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '3.In.C                                                                             *.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 U41I0                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <I



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M.l


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .-                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V)                                                        3 0         -, -, S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              . . .                                                                                                                                  :                                                                                        :U. '= :                                                                                                 :        :                                                      := .                  :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I     19    8                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                  I       I-. 8                       9                                   *  8      0                                                      a         a                                               0           : 8         8                                                                     I e                                                     I               8


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C                                                                                                 2                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              U          c                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y)   0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   . . .                                           U                                                         .- -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        u m                                                                              d            Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In              In 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a          s                                                                                                                                                 -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8         0                   n                                            8      9   B     In, 1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Y                   mm                                                                                                                                                            t:                                                                                                    .-, P:""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In.   -I~~~~O-N-NNNN~~~~~N-QOONN~~QN~~               In*        n,                                                    ~:K~~~~E~~~K~~~~~~sszs 5;                                                                                        ~.NNomN,Qm~,Qe=~meNm~~~mme_O~~*_O:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        as         ., .,                                                                              ., ., ., ., .,                                                                                                                                                                                                In    0,           ~,NN~.uO.OQQ_OO.==~~=~=_OO._N~=~_O_N_O~Q~.:           v, EV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I0                In-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~00000_O0000000m000000000000000.                                                                                                                                                            ~~~~o~o~o~~oooooomom~moo~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I l                          ~0000om0000000000000mY)OOOOOomO,                               , ~000000000000m0000000000000000.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       --                                                                                                                 NN

~~~~~~cc~~~~uIuuI                                                                                                                                                                .-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              c.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                              .GL             UULLLL~~~W~~~~~~W.U~--mmcmmc~~~~uuEm~J--~-- --ytxr----                                                 L 9                                             C.-
                                                                                                                                                     .-                                                                                                                                                                          -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;;;.;.; 2uO>-Du
                                                                                                                                                           L L                                                                m.-.-C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ""                                                                                                         m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N
                                 000                                                                                ~~SS.E.E'E'ECC==~$??~CCUUL~.
                                                                                                                                                                                   L                    am-                                                                            UUtm-l

                                                                                                                                                                                    L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l.o,
                                                                                                                                                                                     L.-d---                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N                                                                                                                                                                                                m
                                                                                                                                                           ----                                                                                                                                                   299              .
                                    0                                                                                                                                                                      L L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *
                                     *                                                                                                                                                                     U L                                                  L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    --                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - ot-22
                                      UUU--.-                                                                                                                                                              aaumm--                    L                          L---

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LL-L La-C--             .                                                                                                       mm                                                                           -N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          e.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .,m
                                                                                                    00                                                         gx.--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L-Up                          w                                                                          NN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L                                                                                                                                                        N-

                                             L                                                                                                                                              CC2""La.- uolEL.-
                                                                                                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CZ)?.FL2'                   L

                 ~3350000                                                                                                                                           ,'-22.kL.-O                                                                                         .E;;-Dr:uP;S                                                                                                                                             m                                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  --
                                                                                                       amooouuaAu.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            mm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C                                                                                                                     NNNNN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .'.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C.---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    &=.Err.
                                                                                                                                                                                            LD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      u                                                                                                                                                                           u 0
                         2233:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           --N

                                                                                                                                                   0                                                                                                                                                       Brr:
                                                                                                                                                    0                                         LL LmmI                                                                                                                                                 IXX.C
                                                                                                                                                       m",.                                                                                                                                                                 jL:-G                                                                                                    -m-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -.
                                                                                                                                                                               O                                                                                                    5:
                                                                                                                                                                                              L.


                                                                                                                  .. k                                                                                            3                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                 8                              A                                  n                                                                                                                     I                                  8                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a.
                                                                                                                                                  m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                        >                          U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Table



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3

                                                                                             INDIA
                                                                                             -.--.
                                                                    WARHAOA RIVER OEVELOPHENI-CUJARAf
                                                                     .................................
                                                                         Update o f Economic A n a l y s i s
                                                                           ...........................
                                                           C r o p Input and Output Data:                   f u t u r e w i t h P r o j e c t
                                                                     ( p e r h e c t a r e , l r r i g a t e d c r o p s o n l y )
.............................................................................................

    C r o p                                  Season         Y i e l d       B y -        Seeds            M             P            K       Corrpost Chemical Labor    B u l l o c k s Wlsc.
                                                                         produc t                           ....................
                                                            ( t o n s )     (Rs)           (kg)               (.....     kg    ..-..)         ( t o n s )  (Rs)  (mandays(pairday       (Rs)
                                     .......................................                                                   .................................................
I r r i g a t e d Crops

P a M y HYV                                  Khar If             2.OO
wheat ~ I Y V                                  Rnbi              3.50
Sorghun HYV                                  Khar if             2.60
S o r g h ~ r nHYV                              Rabi             3.10
P e a r l H i l l e r HYV                    Khar If             2.70
P e a r l M i l l e t HYV                   Hot -seas            3.10
P i g e o n pca                             2.seansn             1.60
Gr am                                       Rabi                 1.60
G r o w d n ut                              Khar l f             2.00
Gr o u n l n u t                            Hot Seas             2.30
M u s t a r d                               Rab'i                1.50
C a s t o r bean                            2 - s e a s n        2.00
C o t t o n m c d . s l a p l e             2.seosn              2.20
l obacco                                     2 - s e a s n       2.40
                                      I
Sugarcane                                    P e r e n n i a   QO.00
Bananas                                      P e r e n n i a   30.00
C h i t l i e s                              2- seasn             1.30
V e g e t a b l e t o n i o n s )            Rabi               20.00
V e g e t a b l e ( p o t a t o )            Rabt              30.00
 I m M e r sorghun                           Khar If           40.00
 L u c e r n e                               2 - s e a s n     40.00

R a i n f e d Crops
 .............
 Paddy r a i n f e d a/                        K h s r l f      1.125            400         62.5              25              0             0      3.75        0
 Faddy r a i n f e d b l                       K h a r i f     1.6875        612.5           62.5              50              0             0      6.25        0
 wheat r a i n f e d                             R a b l      0.6875         112.5           87.5           12.5               0             0           0      0
 Sorghun r a i n f e d e/                      K h e r l f    0.9375         187.5          31.25           12.5               0             0        2.5       0
 S o r q h ~ nr a i n f e d b/                 K h n r i f         0.5           100        31.25           12.5               0             0      1.25       . O
 Sorghun rfd.HYV                                 R a b i         1.875           275         12.5           37.5              25             0        2.5    62.5
 P e a r l m i l l e t r f d . a /             K h n r i f    0.8125          162.5          6.25          18.75               0             0        2.5       0
 P e a r l m i l l e t r f d . b /             K h a r i f      0.875            175         6.25               25             0             0        2.5       0
 F i g e o n pea r a i n f e d               2.seasn              0.75       237.5          16.75           12.5               0             0      3.75      150
 Gram r a i n f e d                              Rabi          0.8125        43.75               75         6.25         1215                0           0      0
 n u r q r a i n f e d                           R a b i       0.4375              25        22.5           22.5               0             0        2.5       0
 c l u s t e r bean r f d .                    K h a r i f     0.5625            125             25               0            0             0      1.25       ,O
 C r o u d n u t r t d .                       Kher if         1.0625                0         125         18.75        43.75           12.5            10   62.5
 H u r t a r d r s i n f e d                     Rabi            0.625               0        3.75          12.5         6.25                0           0      0
 c a s t o r bean r f d .                    2 - s e a s n       1 .I75              0        12.5              25        12.5               0        2.5    62.5
 c o t t o n r a i n f e d r /               2 - s e a s n          0.5              0       ,17.5           12.5              0             0        2.5       0
  I O ~ C C O    r a i n f e d               ? - s e a m               1             0      18750             125              0             0           5      0
  f u r t i e r sorghun r f d .                 Khar.if          18.75               0        37.5           37.5       18.75                0        2.5       0
  ...................................................................................................
  u n t r R v n r d t r r t     v a l o r n d r h e m i c ~ Ic o s t a r e in lO8L p r i c e s .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,             :        ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,2:, ,        :=; ,.-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         la-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -N-OoDDc=uuc~o OONOONQOOOO




                    ;F$$~~F?t,$~~~~f .                                                                  ---z='=--=LLa "                                                                                                                                                            --                                                                    s
.noZ3~~~onoUXUUIuU-c                ,                                                                                                               .                                                                                  ,                         .---.----.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CCC                           m~DONNQmNDQum+-mm~O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5s-n
                                     %%-LL.c--                                                                                                                                             GZ~ZZOLZZ
                                                               LLLmmm                 C                                                              \                       XY                                     mmmmmmmmammmmmaaa~

                                                                                       CC                                  QIUCC.                                                                                                                                                    --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lp
                                                                                                                                                                 ..
                                                     5                                                  .-                                """"C                                YY
                                                                                 &       OP-UOO--                                  a                     en                                                                               L
                                                      5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - :-z
                                                                                                          .-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                  L                                                 a*--.-                                                                                                 Lp
                                                       5'E.E                                                =--LET
                                                                     --            &--

                                                                                                                                                           qnz     .\w           XY.                                                                                                   --c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gz-z-:-sx~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              &
                                                                       x.5.95                                                                                            N                                                                     z.jjz.;.;.II:
                                                                                                                                                                                                    WCCOLZZCC
                                                            2
                                              L~PL~:~        2,                                                                                                                                                                                                             --
                                                                                                                  5T.C                                                              XY
                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                             L3                                                   -            .':e$                                                                                                                                                                                                m

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         xn
                                                                                                 Qm.-
                                                                                                                      c2.55                                               NNN         .'                     II)                                                              ccc-                                                                   C

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :
                                                                                                                                                      .U
                                                                               2                                                                              -22                                                                                                                                                                                                          s-q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                wm-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :-;                                                                                      N-
                                                                                                     ma-                                                                                .Y
                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                        L


                                                                                                                                                                                          .                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;                                                                                                             :                   -'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3                  6                                           I



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tabie



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5

                                                                                                                                   - . i
                                                                                                                                         -g:
                                                                                                           uaLLI.or vr3.WL.

                                                                                                                           C.    - XCIUU.


                                                                                                                   8

                                                                                                                                  a




                                                                           .-
     YY           CCULCUCC             m9mamm4mu9mmmm~wwm~L

                                                           LD                I..-
                                                                                 .--
       YY                                                    L

                                                              LO                    .-
                                                                                      .-
         MY.                                                    L                       .-
                                                                 L

N                         nmzEcroc                                man (r
                                                                                          .-
                                                                                            .-
                                                                                              .-                                                Table
            YY
                                                                  L

                                                                   Ln                           .L.-
 NNN                              yu                                 m                                                                               6
                                                                                                    v,
              .                                                       4 m

               .yo                  mr                                m                               v,
                                                                                                        .-
                                                                       L
                                      .                                 . .
    t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   w.                     U (0.                                           2: c.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .--.                                                                   -------
                                                                                                                                                                                                             YX                ZLeZZx
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           mtcmmmoa~m~~m L                                                                                                                                                     ZgSEgEESC88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N~V-NNN-~~N       r-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LnLLI4CPmL                                                                                                                        m

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   h
                                                                                                                                                                                                               YY                                                                                                      .-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -C                                                       m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     on-

                                                                                                                                                                                               N                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VJa                                                                                   51.-5,5L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n-n-mm-
                                                                                                                                                                                                NN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y



                     :.%82YE'Y'kk2A~F~:z~= .
                                                                                        .                                                                                                                                                                                                   --
.~Qf-'n-QP'LO~UOXuu--                                  l


                      me                                                                                                                  UUV--SLL
                                            LZrCC:C--O  LLL 1019                             c          99-.--u-w            WUQCC.                       mn             1-                             YY czacc~Leu=ac~a                  mmmm0mmm4800m0mUUUm L                                                                             9-         OOOOOOOOOOOONOOOOO
                                                                                              c                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                           \                                                                                              ~n
                                                                                               C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -.---
                        OOOUU.-L3-L3rgO~3               555.EZc~L~pz;g.~                                                                                    uu~uwc
                                                                                         L      ma-                                                48                         PO    \\                  YY                                                                  L                                                                  CC


                                                                                                                                                     U                                                                                                                       LD
                                                                                  --                                                                  *---
                                                                                                                                                                                      \\u                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                   Y                                                                            mam=                      MY.                                                                  L                                                                 9-


                                                                                                    Y                                                                                                                                                                           L
                                                                                    g-.-             m-C         L2e                              m                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 man                 E
                                                                        mmLzLJFLZ                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --.-.
                                                                                          CCJ


                                                                                                                    6T.E                                                                                                                                                                                   -.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                   YX                                                                                                                              -9
                                                                                                                                   a-                                                                                                                                               L

                                                                                                                                                                  zEjUB                                                                                                              LB                                                                e

                                                                                                                        c2.55
                                                                                                                                     L.&9                                                   NNN      .                   rn                                                            m VJ                                          ccc-
                                                                                                                                                                            \2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           u                                                           m VJ

                                                                                 o                                                                                                                                          yc                                                         m                      ',.-
                                                                                                                                         5                             ,-                             Y-                                                                                L


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           . . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I                                                          I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Table



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7

                                                                                         INDIA
                                                                                         .....
                                                                  NARMADA RIVER OEVELOPHENl-GUJARAI
                                                                   .................................
                                                                         U p l a t e of Economic Annlysis
                                                                         ...........................
                                                        f i n a n c i a l Crop Budgets: f u t u r e w i t h P r o j e c t
                                                                                     (per hectare)
                                        ................................................................................................................
                                                                                                     lnputs
                                                          cross         .....................................-.................................                          Net   Net
                                          Season          Return         Sceds          N       P          K        Corrpast Chemical Bullock Hisc. I o t a 1 l a b o r Income R e t u r n
                                        ................................................................................................................
   I r r i g a t e d Crops
   ...............
   Pa&y        HVV                        K h a r i f      17,306
   Wheal HVV                                Rabi           16,670
   Sorghun HVV                             K h a r i f      8,926
   Sorghimn HVV                             Rahi            10,642
   P r a r l M i l l e t HVV               Khnrif           12.588
   Pearl M i l l e t HVV                  Hot -seas 14,445
   Pigeon pea                             2-sennsn 15,844
   Gram                                   Rabi              15,941
   C r o d m l t                          K h n r i f       22,812
   G r o u d n u1                         Hot scss 26,238
   Mustard                                Rabi              13,667
   Castor bean                            2.sensn           13,816
   Cotton med.staple                      2-seasn           36,738

    IolL3cco                              2 - s e a m       24,439
   Sugarcane                              Perennia 45,850
                                       t

   Bananas                                P t r t n n i e 48,375
    C h i l l i e s                       2.seasn           46,800
    vegrtable (onions)                    Rabi              32,250
    vegetable ( p t a t o )               Rabi              61,275
    f d j e r sorghun                     Khar if           10,750
    Lucerne                               2-sensn           18,920


    Rsinfed t r o p s
    .............
:   Pa&iyrainfed~/                          Khar if
    Paddy r a i n f e d b/                  Khar if
    Wheat r e i n f e d                       Rabi
    Sorghun r a i n f e d a/                ~ h airf
    Sorghun r a i n f e d b/                Khsr i f
    Sorghun rfd.HVV                           Rabi
    p e a r l m i l l e t r f d . s /       Khsr i f
    P c a r l m i t t e t r f d . b /       Khar i f
    Pigeon pea r a i n f e d              2-seasn
    Grnm r a i n f c d                        Rnbi
    n m g r a i n f e d                       Rabi
    c \ u s t c r b a n r f d .             Khar i f
     Growdrwt r f d .                       Khar if
     wustard r a i n f e d                    Rabi
     castor bean r f d .                   2-seasn
     c o t t o n r a i n f c d c /         2-seasn
     ~ ~ h a c cr aoi n f e d              2-seasn
     f c d l e r sorghtrn r f d .            Khar if
      .........................           .........

             999
   C om-


    C




        OhONO   93999

u--




                         Page Table


                         1
                                   9
                          of

                            3

      . ,..                                --
                        .=,                                     . ..Q.                                             ,                                                                                     .                             :                .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .-                           .                             .:                                                                                                                   .=,                      .
   ,a,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '0:
                     -0.    .a.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :=:
                                   I         a              $0.               ..a   ..s I       ,     I                                   0                   ,.#.a- m.PC, ,
                                                                                                                                                                    IL;,                          Ib. ,##                           ,.,                                                                            '"1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                                                         a.0,a. .a,. 0       0                       .,a      8                                                                                                                                                ,a.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0                                                          I s     ,-.,,oo~~u~o~-u                                    ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8       a,,  a       a                         no.            ,,I 1-1  10.

                                    =.a. c                                                                                                                                    .-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         m*a,                                                                                                       wo msa- 0.
      .                                                                                                                             -                                                                                                              -                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                         .C' ,O#                                .
                                                                                                                                           ~a~O-OoOOOC00                        .                         :::                                                                                                                                              .                    .
                                              I                  a                                     .c m                                                                                                        lclNh.Oh*Nom.om                       ,a                                      n                          4-.   101     .-.Ocmm*~O*NN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0                                                                             ,-, .oo .cl~~m~u~O--u
                                                                  -
                                               L                                                                                                                                 n
                           .                                   .                 .                                                                               -                                                                                                                                b4.S                                                                      -, a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :                                                    .           .
                                                                                                                                                                                                             --
       00000000000                                                                                     lh*ohQo-mJ.o :OOOOOOO~OO~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :
                               I                I                                                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                                                                        I         8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                                    :~~0~000000    s   so-00000b00         I 0                                                                           ~OOOO~OOO~~         ~ONO~Ooo~~~                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                                                               m
                                                 ubW~QO-CNa        0000000099                                                                                                      N.O*rc*NO.O.Om                                                                                                     OO~~U~O~~W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --
                                                                                                 --C                                                                       CC



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C




                                                                                                    -
                                        IN-                                                          m                                                                       m                                 *                                                                             n                                         U                                                                   e                                        m


                                                                                            -
N 0.:                           =':                        Q 0.;                                       =;                        0.:                    Q;               0: <                                   2:                N' 0:                               0:                                                       0:                      m'               9:                  =:         0: n1                                 52:                m'

0                                                          '                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page     Table


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3

..................................................................................................................
                                                                        Cont inued

                          Region 11           Region 12           Region 13           Total CCA
Crop                 ..-.-........-...*. ..-.-.-...--.--.---  ---.-.-.----..-.---   ---------------.---
                   IR      RF     101    IR     RF     10T   IR    Rf      101     Id    RF     101
-...--..-......-..-.-.----..-
Rice                0 .0
Wheat                2 .O
Sor ghun            0.0
Pearlmillet         0.0
Polscs 6 Oi lsecds  0.0
C r ourdnot         0.0
1obcco              0.0
Cot ton              3.0
fodder Crops         0.0
Other Crops          1.O

A l l Crops          6.0   102.0   108.0  10.0  96.0   106.0  6.0   95.0   101.0   0      92.0  105.0
..................................................................................................................

ONOON99999




              Page     Table


                  1
                            10
                   of

                     3

..,              ..-                          ...                              :                         .                           : :?: , :
      I0.   em.=.                 0. *Cn         -9.  a,.                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                   .-OM..OU~~-Y-OQQ-?
                                                                1                              so. a,.                                             a,. I

                    .&                                                                                    a,,maa.                    5

   . .                                                       -.                 :
                                                                 ~a~0000000VI00                                                       :
                                                                                                                                                        ICI I
                                                                                                                                                            ,o, :
                                                    .                                                                                                          c
                                                                                                                                       : :                                  :
                      .*Qhrho-e-VI ~0000000000
                                  ,                                              :?==?=?????
                                   .                                                                  I I                                                       I
                                                                                                                                       9999999999                Ou~m*-OmQu  ??????????
                                    ..

                                      ......


         -IV
                                                                                                                 VI                                        Q


                                            .




                                                                                                                                                                                           Page     fable


                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                                                                                                                of

                                                                                                                                                                                                  3

u-0;3: .-
         OWLc

             L U   L 0n  VI

              U L 0 n  ur




                               Page Table


                               3
                                         10
                                of

                                  3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ztu10*      c 5:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  =                           4. P: x;X1L       a.O).cCo :O:n LY.-.Lu P:.                        n                                            =-                                       on.-#     L.U. I. LLJ~C*~~~                                                                C. XI          -,,.-* <
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -1                              P:.                                C


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0                                                                               1LYIrUIm.P:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8                             I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  v                                             c                              5:                                                                COD-0 ma-                             V),                V)1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - -                                                                                                                                                     -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .-                                                   - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                                                       '                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 =..:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             aII,U m,.           0                                  c m                                            U.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OLIO).                                                        UCI       C-                             ;O;N.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                                                                                        O)-I                                                                                   a1  L 0 U U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                                  a:=:                                                                                                                                 . ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    u                                                                                       c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                    '                                .                                                                                      .o.                                            . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   . :                                                                                                              .            .
                                                                                                I                                I   .a,    .a,,
                                                                                                                                        I=.        I0,.     ..-                                  'CS                               Ira                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          m.a.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,-,~,d&~dddd~&d~dodoodddd&h;-0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #a#,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I       .at .O)I      '-*b.00Q0n0m000000rrl0OOOOONN .C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 101                             0. *                                            *,a                                 9                             #a. s,                          000 0,.  OR,       1                                           'CI                          ,I, UU  I  I m                                 #,I 1                                                                    .a,                            0.0  a  .P:, a    I       '-'u~00~0h00eNOO-ONO00000~~   810,                         )I,    8.0 0                                        0  I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ca
                                                                     *a'-Q-mNmmnOmOO-OOneONN--   . .
                                                               -.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .                                              -                                   08       c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       meQ:0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        u m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,                                                                                                                   . :                                                                                                                                                                :                                                                                                             .                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                  I                            8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -C.mNmNNm.O-OmOOh-~~-O-UP))r)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '~:=~n~~m~m0m00N000~ONNNN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I*,   I0.h.- .~.-Q~~~m.Om0m00:k0~~dNkn'n                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .O ~-~-m-.Ohm~rrlOmOONrrlOO-Oh;N--                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~~~~0o~~0~~0o00~000000000                                                                                                                                                 I0 ~~~~NN&~~&~oo~o-~OQOOOONN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                       P:. u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~O.NN ~eohrn~O-h~~-n-n-N.OO.O-rt-hh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I, IC.                                     1                                   naoh0-0hhN-Nn-N-O.OC.O--~--                                          I                                                                                          ICI                                         I. 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    u
                                                                                                 (. '                                      .                                                   .                                      . .                                              ........... ~ooooooooooOoooqo~oqooq                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ' , ,                                        :                                                                                                                                               :?????????O???O????Y"99                     .                                      ....................... ,                                                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                           .---
                                                                                                                                   I                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '??~??O???O????????""99
                                                                                                                                                I               0                                   '00000000000000000000m~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~oo~~oo~ooooo~~~~~~~""qq                                               '99933339~93????3?O????                                                                  '9993?99393?O????0000?0 ,                                                          '99399999993993????????
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                                                                                                                              I
                                                                 CV-                                  ~~~~=~~~o~oo~~o~oooooo~yy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                 Odr;C.n;dch;di.d&&&&&&d&&::                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                                          v                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0000000000000000000000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I           8---                                                                   8                                                                           I                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                .                                                                                                                                                                                                        oorrlo-oooooooo-~~~~~~~~                    .~00000000000000000~000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                                                                                                                                       I      I     0                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NN                                                  ~~ooo~~o~ooo,oooooooo~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                                                               I
                                   -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o~ooo~ooo~~~~o~~o~o~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NN

   zmuu       mnr-         .----
                   C
                    .-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                    xa zm
                                                     C
                                                      .-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
       -                                                -
           a x                   -
                      On c                    -n c

           a      m

                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                                                             -
9DO     C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                         -9
                        O         n u                      e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n
         .C - - -
            'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       e
                                                            -                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                         'a                       n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N                                                                                         N
                                           -
                                                   -
                                0 'a        c-

                                9 0                 n




                                                         -.  %:                               -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9:
                                                                                                                               0.                -, -,                                                                     qj            2:                                         n.                                      q:              m.                                   -:                                                                                         0                                                                                                   ?                                                                                        ?:                                                          ?:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -.                                                             -.                                                                   9:                                                                 3:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C.     e                                        *I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -'                                                                                                                                                                                                          9:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C C                                     hl                                                       N eu                                                                     2: 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -I                             -z                                -I                                                            0. -*                                                          0.:                        0 ho 0:                                                      rrl                                                                                    N .O'                                                                              m                                 h'
                                                                                               ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;                                                                                                   :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                               9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0                                                                               8   8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page     Table


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of       I1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3

Page     Table


    2
              I1
     of

       3

.c>umccaooo=uuu-wmu>>-3.
                        .D~OO~~~-LLL~~~OOJ~~UU


                                                         .----       -
                                                      L       C
                                                       .-
                                                               %a .cw c -
                                                                      s



                                                                       C




                                                                        u
                                                                         a




                                                  UUO                     W~

                                                                            o~




                                                                                  Page Table


                                                                                  3
                                                                                            11
                                                                                   of

                                                                                     3

                                                                    INDIA
                                                                    ---.-
                                           HARHADA RIVER DEVELOPHEMI-GUJARAI
                                           .---...-----.------.-.-.---.---..
                                              Update of Economic Analysis
                                               -.--.-----------.---.-...--
                                   Estimated Average EUater Balance
                                                   (Ru(Hil l i o n d)
_ . _ _ . . . . . . _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ . . . - _ . . - . - . . - - . . - - . . . - - - - - - - - . - - - . - - . - - . - - ~ . ~ ~ ~ - - ~ ~ ~ - - - ~ - . ~ ~ ~
                               Region 1                      Region 2                           Region 3            Region 4            Region 5
                           .-..-...-....-.----                                              -.----------------.----.------------------------.--------
                                                  - - - - - . - - a * - - - . . - - * -


                          IR     R I    101      IR               R F              101     IR     RF    101    IR     RF    701    IR    RF     101
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ . . _ _ _ . . - ~ . . ~ . - . . - . . . . - - - - - - - . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . - - . - - - - . . - - . - - . - - ~ ~ - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

Present
.......
Cross r e t u r n        10,954 3,491   4,267 11,720            3,820              6,891 11,534  3,266  4,043 11,946 2,913  3,275 11,204 3,546  6,599
l n p t t cost           5,217  2,129   2,471   5,840           2,174              3,631   5,616 1,8n   2,228 6,242  1,806  1,984 4,941  2,215  3 , 4 6 6
Wet r e t u r n          5,757  1,362   1,796   5,880           1,646              3,260   5,918 1,393  1,814 5.704  1,107  1,291 6,263  1,331  3,136
Labor                    1,852  1.706   1,770   2,199           1,590               1,930  2,047 1,605  1,661 2,261  1,774  1,794  1,858 1,072  1,506
Crop i n t e n s i t y        9     94    103       35                  n              108    9     92    101     4     96    100    32     85      117

future VOP
......-..-

Cross r e t u r n        13,155 4,189   5,568 14,064            4,584               9,706 13,041 3,919  5,525 14,335 3,496  3,930 13,445 4,255  8,598
I n p ~ tcost            6,521  2,662   3,282    7,300           2,718              5,272  7,020 2,341  3,113  7,803 2,258  2,479  6,176 2,768  4,617
~ e rte t u r n          6,624  1,528   2,287    6,764           1,866              4,514  6,821 1,578  2,412  6,532 1,238  1,450  7,269 1,487  3,981
L ahor                   2,222  1,202   1,381    2,658           1,251              2,069  2,364 1,On   1,299  2,714 1,016  1,084  2,308 1,200  1,061
Crop i n t e n s i t y ,     14     89     103      51                  57             108    15    88    103      4    96     100    38    82       120


rut11re UP
 ......-.-
Gross r e t o r n
 I n p t cost
 Wet r e t u r n
 Labor
 Crop i n t e n s i t y
  .-..-.....-......-

                                                                       -
                                                                         cum-.-.-     ---
                                                                                 -       OQOO mm~e~ ummNQ

                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                  - J$2"
                                                                                                                        mom* mnNDm




r                                            >:::?
         2s       2:                                an-"?&
                             L.      U.

 *
  V-xdu             :ii-,9g:                                                                                 KG-
           LCOIPL.             Ln-LL                        >-C 4..




                                       Y


                                        .-        --
                                           C.             5:
                                                                   yl.
                                    .
       I                                  I




                                                                                                                                      Page     Table


                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                                                           of

                                                                                                                                             3

                                                                                                                      lable 12




                                                                                                  Cont 1n1ted
. . _ . . . . . . . . . - _ . . . . _ . . . . - . . . . . - . - . - . . - . - . - . ~ . . - - . - - - - - . - . - - - - - . . - _ - _ - - _ . ~ ~ - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - ~ ~ ~ .
                                Region 1 1                   Region 12                    Region 13                 lots1 CCA
                          .----..-.-.-.-...--...-.--------------                                                 ----------------.--
                         IR       Rf       101        IR        R f      TOT        IR      RF       TOT        IR       RF      TOT
...~....~....---....-~.--.--.-------.-.----.-.-.--.-..--------.----.---.--~-----.-----.----~---.-----*-------

Present
.......

Crozs return           11,325    2,706     3,439     9.617     3,336     4,163 11,002       3,019    3,581 11,193       2,984.' 4,200
Input cost              4.417     1,741    2,041     3,412     1,907     2,249     5.975    1,892    2,156     5,231    1,968    2,494
Net return              6,900       961,   1,398 6,205         1,367     1,913     5,908    1,126     1,424    5,962    1,016     1,706
1ebor                   1,521       839       947    1,211        981    1,063     2,150      908       992    1,918    1,064     1,231
Crop intensity              6       102       108        10        96       106        6       95       101        13       93      105-

l u t u r e VOP
..........
Gross return            13,590 3,247       4,638 11,541        4,001     4.995    14,259    3,622     4,297 13,441      3,559     5.379
Input cost              5,522     2,177    2,751     4,265     2,484     2,811     7,468    2,365     2,695    6,554     2,454    3.274
uet return              8,069     1,070     1,888     7,276     1,517     2,184    6,790    1,257     1,602    6,888     1,105    2,105
1abor                    1,271    1,145     1,283     1,027     1,269     1,321     1,095   1,163     1,171     2,305    1,153    1,414
Crop intensity              10      101       1 1 1       10       96       106        6        95      In1        16        91     107



 future UP
 ...... .. .
 GI oss return
 Input cost
 Wet r e t u r n
 1abor
 Crop Intensity
  ........*...--.

                                                             --...
                                             WARHADA IVER DEVELOPMENT -CUJARAI
                                                      k
                                             -....-..---.---.-......---.------
                                                                                                                        ' ,
                                               Update of Economic Analysis
                                                -.--.----.--.-..-.---------
                                 Ist imat'ed Averag F IVnter Balance
                                                     (Ru(Hi I l [on m3)
.............-.--...-.---.-.-*-------.-.........-----.~.~.~~.-         --..--.-----.._-..--.-.-.-.--.----------------..-.----------.-----
                            Region 1                     Region 2                 Reglon 3                  Region 4              Region 5
                      -.-.--..-..----....                                     .--.----.-.-.-.-.--      ---------..-..-.---    --.-------.--------
...... -... - - . . .I-R. . - -R - . . .101. - - -I-R - - -RF- - - -101- - - - - - -R.F- . -101. . - -IR- . ~RF~ ~101~ ~ ~ ~ ~R~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - ~ ~ - ~ ~ ~ ~ . . ~
                               F                                            IR
                                                                      .                     -                .      .       IR       F    101


Present
...-...
Cross return       13,212   4,823     5,722     14,803    4,656     8,580  14,655  4,386   5,354   15,921   4,214   4,682  12,744 4,081   7,547
lnplt cost          5,906   2,655      3,027     6,700    2,704     4,319  6,519   2,374   2,771    7,286   2,289   2,489   5,487 2,T36   4,081
uet return          7,306   2,168      2,695     8,103    1,953     4,262  8,136   2,013   2,584    8,635    1,925  2,193   7.257  1,345  3,466
Labor               2,764   2,547      2,643     3,282    2,373     2,881  3,056   2,395   2,479    3,375   2,648   2,678   2.773  1,600  2,248
Crop intensity          9        94       103        35         73     108      9      92     101        4      96    100      32     85    117

luture WP
..-......-
Cross return       15,854   5,787      7,370    17,763    5,580 12,244     17,587  5,264    7,270  19,106    5,056  5,618  15,292  4,898  9,827
Input cost          7,382    3,318     3,987     8,375    3,379     6,197   8,149  2,967    3,833    9,108   2,861  3,111   6,859  3,420  5.411
Met return          8,471    2,469     3,383     9,389    2,208     6,047   9,437  2,296    3,437    9,998   2,195  2,507   8,434  1,478  4,417
Labor               3,316    1,794     2,061     3,967    1,867      3,087  3,528  1,602    1,939    4,050   1,516  1,618   3,444  1,791  2,778
Crop intensity          14       89       103        51'        57     108     15      88     103         4     96     100     38     82   , 120



.......- .
Cross return,      25,647    5,402    33,841    25,963    4,507     35,455 25,100  5,021   30,572   15,997   5,408
lnprt cost          8,961    3,231    12,011     9,218    3,203     12.T32  8,366   3,211  10,560    5.670   2,894
Wet return         16,687    2,171    21,830     16,745   1,303     22,724 16,734   1,810  20,013   10,327   2,514
Labor               4,175    1,616     5,613     4,184     1,875     5,111, 3,676   1,953   4,770    3,785   1,213
Crop intensity
__________.__._.__.~~~~...~...~~~.~..~..~~~~-~-~.~-----...-..-.-.----.-...--.-
                      129        14       143       135          9     144     117     24      141       46      61




                                                                                                                                                   '"I"
                                                                                                                                                    09 0-

                                                                                                                                                    In w

             .
1-1   I..I I        ..I ,I*




          st* -0.I*.


   .




                               Page Table


                               2
                                         13
                                of

                                  3

'---*.%S-00uh0 CCONQ




                        mmN- coon= 00UOPl, mnuo-
                            --.

                        ' ,                     :




                                                     Page Table


                                                     3
                                                               13
                                                      of

                                                        3

                                                             INDIA
                                                              .*-.-

                                        WARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENI-GUJARAt
                                        ...--..-.-..--.-.-.*----...-..--*
                                              Update o f Economic Analysis
                                               ---.--.-.----------.-..---.
                      Estimate of Econanic Value o f energy from Hydropouer Ccnpnent
                     ......-...-._.......-..-.-.----.-.---.------.-.-.-.---..---.---...---.-.-

1.  E c o m i c t e r i f f based on u i l l n i e s s t o pay (Rs/kl.lh) s 2.136

2.  Adjustment for System Losses snd A u x f l i o r y Conscription

    System losses          18.00% of energy sent out
    AuxiI l o r y conscript i o n   0.50% of energy genrated
    Adjustment factor:             0.816

    Average financial value at busbar (Rs/kUh):

3.  Economic Vslue

   RS 1.741 x standsrdconversion factor                  (.a) =         Rs   1.39  0.00

5 . Mldnlght power cost (Rs/kuh)                                            0.384
........--..-..-........-------....-.-.-..-.---.-.------.---.*--...-.-----------.----.-*-
r/ Aversge value of benef Its for the uestern region program analysis,
    second Wahsrashtrs Pouer Project, adjusted f o r i n f l s t ion.

                                                                 -
                                                               4            c
                                                              L   0.




E
 ess   agag    'W          z      #           a                     a= I
                     L      pa
    r            SAT! 2-f-                     sn igg                        ~IJ


                                   s~~s .hD-g  S                    q           pqz
                                   L
                                                                     -
                                    a- '"9ZS         ?8518                         4~,g*58
                                             I  9                     I(:-




                                    4 s                   f                               g

                                                           ,



                                    31                      3             $E
                                      9                                                    r.0




                                                                                              (Page      Table


                                                                                                   1          I5
                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                .-
                                                                                                      3)          -

                                                                                                                   --
                                                                                                        .

XI. $~:g~e
   '

            1.i                                                                       .
                                                  1;
               a:bw             6:                                                     1i                Y            r:                                  .
                                                                :                                                              i                      a.

                   qlr2~          v-2 -it-                                               "165.            l                                                1'I


                                                                                                                                8,0-
                                                                                              O                                            -t
                                                                                               a           mwr rn
                                                                           sr,                                            w-
                        a
                         l~ili                                                                                                      @
                              Y                     XIS#-        s~BP;        f
                                                                               ..               ma         Y rn

                                                                                                  ET
                                                                                                           0-               u-
                                                                                                    Z
                                  [:!$&                               rb~~g
                                                                                 ;e 1s                                               13
                                                                                                             rn-        uv
                                                         -=9

I: rI                                  +'i                                                                                                   i.'
C                                         -I

                                                                                                                                                PI
 I                                                                               I I a               I# 1       I I
  11,.                                                      .
                                            =                                    -.                             e                      ..               .
                                                                                                                 J
                                                                                   I                                                     *
      as;kg;                                                                                                                                             I I
                                             hi                                                                   1i
                                               -31           *"j
                                                                                                                    L


                                                                                                                     I                    I

                                                                       INDIA
                                                                       ---.-
                                                         NARHADA RIVER OEVELOPHENI-GUJARAI
                                                          ..--..----.-----.__.*-.----*--.--
                                                            Update of Econunic Analysis
                                                            .--..-..--.------.-.-..----
                                                  F inancial Investment Cost by Components by Year

,______._._.._...._.-.-..-...---.-..--.---------.-------------..-.-..-..-------.-.
                                                                    (Rs H i l l Ion)




                                                     1984
                                                -.---.-..
A.  M a i n dam                                        783
B . Rockfit dykes 6 l i n k charnels
C . Riverbed pouerhouse                                 16
D. Hain canal                                          828
E . ~arudeshuaru e i r
I , Canalhead pouerhouse                                  8
G.   Irsnsmisslon system
n. Branches                                             110
I. Distribution L drainage systm                        90
    Drefnage 8 g r o u d uater deve.
J. En route storage
K.   c m n d area develapnnt
I.   ~ y d r a n t e o r o l o g i c a lnetuork
n. Training and            1 A   -  dam 6 canal           4
~ . ~ a n d ~ q u i r t i o n L r e h s b i \ i t a t i o137

t o t a l baseline cysts
 ._._..._..._.______--.--....---...---.-...--.-.-.-.-.------.--.----.---------*---..-.----.-------.-------.-.---.-
                                                      1974      622     992        1000  1304    1461     1945   3569     5204  7485 15413 18897 21337

                                                 note: at current p r i c e s before 1992, constant l W 2 prices afterwards.

                                . . :
                       I
                                    8


                                                      .
  -,                    -..-
                                13,  ,In# .C.V



                                                       .m :~ohUDODhInmNUhmu


    - *%                                       UN U*-Q

                                         C




                                          --
    .or) NO* -moo-O                                    $as-2


            $




-. z:   m.                                  In. In                         *I



                                                  t




                                                                                 Page     Table


                                                                                     2
                                                                                               16
                                                                                      of

                                                                                        3

                                                                        IHOlA                                                                      Table 17
                                                                        - - - - -
                                                         IARHADA RIVER DEVELOPHEWI-CUJARAI
                                                         .......-...-.-.--------.-.-.-.-..
                                                            Update of Economic Analysis
                                                             -...--.-.---.--.--..--*-.--
                                                     Econanic Investment Cost b y Carpnents by Veer

                                            ..-....-..---.-----------.-.-----.--.-....----.-------
                                                                     (Rs M i l l i o n )




                                                       1984    1985    1986          1987    1988 1989 l w o 1w1    1w2    1w3    1994      1WS       1W6      1997  1998
                                                    - - - - . . - . - . - - - . - . - . . . - . - . - - - - - - - - . * . ~ ~ ~ . ~ - ~ ~ ~ . ~ - ~ . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
A . Hain dam                                          1,650     305     244            226   345   250   504   707 1,057   1,248 1,462     1,111       841      516   4 0 4
8 . Rockfil dykes      L l i n k channels                 0       0         0             0    0     0     0    0       0     0       0         0        0        0      0
t. Riverbed powerhouse                                   33      50      108            52   415   128    97   148   239     630 3,833     2,865       8 3 8 '  459   438
0 . Hain canal                                        1,744     469      244           205   469   748 1,075 1,360 1,904   1,W3  4,242     4,830     4,766    3.311 2,262
E . Garudeshwar weir                                      0       0         0             0    0     0     0     0      0    468   399       294         0        0       0
I . Canalhead pouerhouse                                 16      52       59            30    117  321    29   157   130     280   302       320       258      139       5
C . lransmisslon system                                   0       0         0             0    0     0     0    60   101     126   121         96        0        0       0
H . Branches                                            232      66       80            96    216  189   358   559   660   1,008 1,890     3,188     6,501    7,983 7,371
I. Oistrihutlon L drainage system                       189      33        28           39     35   64   134   245   219     740   870     3,318     4,484    4,738 4,562
    Drainage 6 ground uater deve.                         0       0          0            0     0    0     0     0       0   364   364       364        546     546   546
J. En route storage                                       0       0          0            0     0    0     0     0       0     0       0         0       0       43     72
K  .t m n d area developnnt                               0       0          0            0     0    0     0     0       0    15   290       528        766     850 1,170
L.  Hydrometeorological network                           0       0          0            0     0    0     0     0       0   111    115        92        89       0       0
n. l r a i n l n g end 1A-   dam L canal                  8       20       24            20    14   11    11    10      10    10       6         3        3       3       3
N. Lard acquistion 6 r e h a b i l i t a t i o n
0 . Rejasthan branch        L d i s t r i b u t i o n
                                                                                                                                                                            P
                       4
lots1 Project Costs                                   3,871
                                                        --.- .--- .787
                                                                 W4
                                                                          .-1.        -668-
                                                                                        - - 1,610
                                                                                             --.-1,711
                                                                                                  ..-- ---..---4,320-
                                                                                                       2.207 3,248         6,W2 13,894
                                                                                                                     - - -   -.--  - - - - 17,009 19,090 18,5BB 16,920
                                                                                                                                             - - - -   -.-.     -.--  -.--
 _._____...__..___......~..-~...*.~.-~-..~~..~~-~-.-------.-.-...-.---.------------..----------

                     i

        -. g:z                 ~~~oor-ouo~u~-amon           N. 0 0' -~oooooooo~oonon

                                                                 0




  C     Y.




   LnN       In        QN*WN                                      u-a mu
               h-m

      -                                                                 NE
                  N-




                    N h o                                                           2
-
       N 0..                                     -.
                            hm                            N. In.
                                                              ..                     2;:
                                                        .
          I.


                                                   .     .
 a     4    I                                                     *
                              0                                 a




                                                                                            Page    Table


                                                                                                2
                                                                                                         17
                                                                                                 of

                                                                                                   2

                                                            INDIA
                                                            ---..
                                                                                                                                                                  Table 18
                                             WARMAOA RIVER OEVELOPMENl-CUJARAI
                                             ..-.-....-.*-.-.-*----------...--
                                                Update o f Ecwunic Analysis

                                            Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Conpnent
                                   t imated Recurrent Operat ion and maintenance Costs

                                  .--....-.-----.--...*.-...----.----.---.--.-....--.
                                                          (Rs M i l l i o n )




lnvesrrrrnt Schedule
 ( u i r h p r i c e Contign.)          2,578    1,010    2,097        1,929   1,843' 1,534  1,339  1,624  2,088  3,592  7,560  5,933  3,170  2,182   2,012  1,092    604

Accurulotive Investment                 2,578    3.588    5,684        7,613   9,457' 10,990 12,329 13,953 16,041 19,633 27,193 33,126 36,296 38,178 40,490 41,582 42,186

Cperation E Maintenance
Rarc/factor a/




a/             eased on s rate of the curulative investment a t i n i t i a l operation in 1993 and
                increasing t o 0.51 d e v e l o p n t i n 1997.


h/              Including a m u s l t t a l costs and odM costs.

ONON. "NO"                                        --
     .                                         n 0.u-m     ?so?
      .

                                               n n
          ;                                                    :
ON                                                        0
           om*:                                     -m me.      hi*
                                               n
                                                                   :
                   - --sop         ?'?='.

                   -
                    -     '              :
                           02" hi';

                                          :




                                                                        Page     Table


                                                                            1
                                                                                      19
                                                                             of

                                                                               2

financial
......--.
fstabl ishmcnt Costs           544.6  553.2 554.5 554.5 554.6
Camxnicat ionsltontrol costs    22.4   22.4  22.4 22.4   22.4
Well Maintenance Costs           8.6   10.9  12.9  14.2  15.2
lotal M M Costs                575.6  586.5 589.8 591.1 592.2

Energy Costs
total Annual Costs

Econanic
........
Establishment Costs             435.7 442.6 443.6 443.6 443.7
tannnicat ions/Control costs     17.9  7.9   17.9  17.9  17.9
well Hainttn~nceCosts            6.9    8.7  10.h  11.4  12.2
Iota1 OW Casts                  460.5 469.2 471.8 472.9 473.8

Energy Costs                                                     t-'
lots1 Annual costs                                               ul
                                                                 h)

                                                 -.-.-

                                   NARMAOA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT

                                     Update of Economic Analysis
                                     ...........................
                                       Other Benefits and Costs
                                        ---------.------.-------
                                             (Rs. Mil lion)
Other Benefits and Costs (M Rs)
---------.--------.--*------.------

Lard Acquisition
  Dnm and reservior
    Agriculture
    Forestry-cost
    Forestr harvestlng
  Resettlement Cost
     Total reservoir
  Comnand control ere0
     Totsl lend

Nermda Sagar dam cost sllocstion

Environmental
  Benefit
  costs
  Net

Fueluood (net)
Fishery benefit '(net)
-------------.-.--------------------------.---.----.--------------

Othcr Rcncfits nnd Costs (H RR)
.-.-.-----------------------------



I n d Acrlr~lkltlon
    Dnm nnd r e s ~ r v i o r
       Agriculture
       rorcstry-cost
       rorcstr harvesting
    R r s e t t l e w n t Cost
         Totnl rrscrvol r
    Comnnnd control nrea
         TotnI lnnd

Unrmndn Sngnr dnm cost nllocntlon


r n v l r o ~ n r n t n l
    Rrncf l t
    costs
    IIct


rucluocd (net)
r i s h e r y b n e f l t (nct)

             22: B                      -.
L-L                      55:
      3- C'     OLO         008YC A- .w,   -01.

           c       >:.r2                       r.C n

                        *
   I 1      t                    I  ,              7 I

                                             ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  e         5
                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -:.I                  c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                        .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I




                                .                                                                                I,,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r                                                                                                               i
                                                                                                                                .                                                 I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i                                         i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .I
                                                                                   ;             I                                       I                                                       :                                                                                                                                                                       i                                                i                                                   i                                    ;                                                     : I:'                                                                                                                                                       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..I
                I LII    ,.I Ill                                     !  la1.1@ 11                                    Ill 114 1 I I. 111                                    Ill I                                  I*, Ill Ill                                                                                                                     Ill It0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                   I 1 Ill 111               I,.                               Ill I ;.a        I                               I Ill Ill                              I 11 ..I Ill 1                                                  4,:          I                                        III Ill I II* OI Ill I                                                                  I

                                 i'f                                                : 1s;                                                 igi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 igis                                           it:
                                                                                    s,;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ig;                                              if:                                                 igl                                                                                       ;p;
                I                                                     I                                                      10,                                                   I .F,                                                                                                                                                                  ,                                  I I I1                                                           I 4,         BCI                            I         ;-;                          I                1-1                                       I9                 1-1                                                   1          I-l                             I ILI I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r
                                    i
                 I                                                     I 1                                                                                                         I                                                                                                                                                                       I.                                 I I                                                             *   I                                         I                                     I. 1                                                                                                                                I                                         I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,grga                                            $Epti
                                                                                                                                                                    ,
                                                  mmrm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                  0000                                       .,                      0000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~35~
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0000                                         0000                                        mrmm                                     mrmr                                                     0000                           mmrg                                                0005                                              rrrz                                    lrnf5,3i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L                                                                 wmr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A


                                                      r!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   qi
                                                                                                      0;                                                                 0:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5;                                                                                                                                                               s:
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0:                                           0;                                          m;                                       r;                                                       0;                             2:                     A                                                                              2:                                                                                                                                                                             ",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A                                                                C -9                                                    L 0


                                     I                                                   I                                                     1                                         *                                                                                      I                                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1

"I-
     - -                                                                                  9%                                                    k"s                                                                                tzi!                                                                                tJeq                                                   rsls                                                  JEE                                                                                                                                             .s*sz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ql8.                                  qrE                                                                                                                                                                       f%qgi
                         -wIm         qsj!                                                                                                                                                98%                                                                                    :rs               bmm                                                       2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        --e                                                                                                                    5%.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     or*                                                p;i -.np                                                            C~C                                      lug                 ~3%
         L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                z
       *m  -X
          u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C                                      rN                                              G.n.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                          gi.                                               3.i                                                    bBi                                       Ei                                        Pi                                           ki                                     ~i.                                                    ti,                                                  J!                                                   4;                                   ~.i                                                     ?:                                             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~t                                 s:
                                                                                 C                                                                                                                                              L                                       C                                                                                                                                                                                               Ic                                                                                                                     CT.                                       H,                                      QI                                          k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          zs                                                      rc                                                                                                           89                               GE
                                                        O"                                              00                                            rm                                                  00                                           om                                             r.m                                   00'                                                       me                                 O*                                                   RZ                                                                                                                                                              pz

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           m:~                                                  %i6*                                        ~p                                                      5;s                                                         3:s                                              tj8                              a:-
                                               ,          O!O                                             0;-                                           r:m                                                 0:-                                          m;*                                             r                                     0                                                        WIQ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l     .-=                             ;                                    !-
                                                I                                              I                                 I                                                             I                                         8                                                                                    a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           o                                     g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~igi,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              h

                     70                                      c!g!                                                                 a%:                                                                                                     'F.lh-I           =;=;                      kit!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - -                                                                                                                    Kzg:                       -                            2'R;E~                                                                   b 3.i~:                                                                        g9$                 2'6 2::;                                                                                                                  eii.i
                                                                                  0 q:a-1                    hab;                                          C1h1                                                                                                                                                                                                   0,                                                                                                                                                                                           h,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C                                       C                                                                                                                                 ***I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L      d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    z                                               5                                            -.     z'                                       S                                                                                                                         =                                   3
                                                                              Y                                     n                                                                   w                                    w C                                 w                                                                                                                                                                                   .         a                                                                                      n Y                                                           "                                                  A                                             CI                                            L1




                                                                                                '                                                              6~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                            C CY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                       i                                                                                                                                         !ji
                        i ..                                     ;,%b                                                                                                         'i                                                  i                                                                                                  1 - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - -i6                                                                                                             -E -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .                                                        i                                                                . ;g                                              ii .                                                                                                          . r'i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                                9:                             :r        - 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *                                        il... 4 - ,I-.                            j      :t.                                                                                                                                          : '8                                          ii                              IB                                           ,                                                                                                                             ir~
                                                 I                                                                                   I                                                          I I                           I                                                                                                      I I I"I I                                                                        I                                                                             80.I-                 I'                                  I I I                                                        I                                       I I a       ; :I                                 I                                     1 I I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                                                                                   C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                      IY,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       u                                                                                                     L L                                                                                             * E Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .                                                                        ..                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .                                                                                            ;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .

   Incnmmtat Bcrptl1s
   -----------.--------
  wet Irrlgs!lon betelIt .
  Pauer M I 1
   A ' & I beldlc
  Others

         lord bencfits



   lmstmtent casts
      Dm wd reservoir                  306    150    I S     Ib      76    76     76     76      76    16      76     76      76        76     76
       Pwer foclI ftler                 94    25      2      10       6     .O     0      0      0      0.      0      0        0        0      0
       Irrlgmtfon lacltftfa         l l  b  6      2,624  2,014   1,227    9W    Rlt    302    #K     303      ##   302       302      102    302
                                                                     . ,
                                  -    --- . ---                                                       ---
                                    2 7 , m        2,746
                                                     --. ---
                                                          z.110   i,sw     672
                                                                    ---    --. ..-
                                                                                na -m.          3is   3 n      3     3
                                                                                        ---     -.-            ---   .--      370
                                                                                                                              -.- --. ---
                                                                                                                                       178    3 n
                                                                                                              '
                                                                    . .
                                                                                        . .
   aperati0n.L mintemnee cust
       Dam cmd pOHr                    661    6fLl          603            663   &a3    6       6@3  .&        d83   683      3                663
       trcigntian avtcn,               lW     229    a 1    3%    - 493    602   '109   -787    &2     648     865   0        OIP       879    UFO

                                              -.- ---               -.-1,286
                                                                           ---   ---                           ---
         lotml apetation coats         Un
                                       ---    VlZ                                               ---                  .--                ---    ---
                                                     p162 1.NT
                                                             .--  1            1,192  1       1.5W  1,532   t,W 1,562       1 , ~ 2 ` 1.562 1.562
                                                                               .        ---4           ---
                                                                                                                              - - *

   ~nvirm@ttrkcost                      s t . 89      66     .66    .06 ;as       s1     SO -    SO     49      49     11      71        71     n

   rotat coas                          ---                                                             ---
                                    13,117  a,on
                                              ---  3 --. ---, .-- 2;---. .--
                                                       ,  3       2,571        1,szo  i,wa
                                                                                        ---   i,w
                                                                                                --.1,9ro    1,976 -2.011
                                                                                                               ---          2,011
                                                                                                                     ---      ---     2.011
                                                                                                                                        --- 2,011
                                                                                                                                             . ---
                                              -..16;061      ---                                -.. --. ---                             ---    ---
-  Net C s h Flow                    2,H4
                                       ---  V,WP     --.19.537 ---
                                                                21,307 22.--.-24,316 24.W
                                                                                 ---    ---  25,545 26,162 ;Ilb,U4 Zb,ilS..tb,WO
                                                                                                                     ---      ---   25,926  25,857

                                                                                                                                                      tabla 21

                                                                                                                                                         . -




                                                                                                                                                      Continud
                               .q---------.----------------------.-------*.--.-------------.-----------------.--------------------.----.----




 Incremental #emfI t s
 ---------------.----
~e.t~ r r i k i o nbenefit
Pouer h t l t     '
n 8 I beretit
,
Other8

     Total bcmtits

 lncrcnen(a1 Costs
 ------------.----
                             ..
 InVeSt~ntcmtr
   Dmm ud resarwir -
   Wter trcilities
   Irrtwelon l a c i l ltier




 aperat Ion 1 nrfirrbmnp
   O m ard paver
   Irrl#atim rptem

                                           ---                   ---                              ---                                        ---           ---   ---
     Total aperatlm cats      .          1,562      1,562
                                                      ---      1,542     1,--.-1,162    ---     1,562      1,562
                                                                                                             --. ---  1,562     1,562
                                                                                                                                   ---     1.562 1,562
                                                                                                                                                   ---   1,562 1,562

 EWI tammt.1 c#t                             n          71         71         n          71         t t        71         TI         n        n     n - n        7~

                                                          If't            1t8Lh9




                                                           tL-s
                                                           1L'Z
                                                          LO-a
                                                           LO'L
                                                            M'Z
                                                             6'6
                                                            4-1
                                                            4-v
                                                            4-b
                                                            e-6




~ ~ m ~ l o u l k W l W 4 s I
    l ~JI
      dJ
       L                                                '   l L ' I         II'10L(
       dJ
       z                                                    IL'S            )Z'LW(
                                                           lLY             1 Z'OLL(  .
 V      ~      J   .                                        LL'Z            )L'96E(

                 -------.-------------.---.----.--.--------.~~.-------~~..-------.-&~~------------.----.r--
   P                 o)  3w* 4 s u         p1-~.,isp~ . ~ q n ~ t o ut~raaw pr;1ksp)m~~emmiA qu 4 a
                                                   a                             0                          UIU SIRI*'
 ..PI cma,rws boqr ~ w t              -9 gaawmaluihsam rupm dm)odIwuqrp4
         ad- r o d ~ a l u * - m a r u J .)03 8141   m~ ru r r m a ~ u -
   a/ l w a a u a r )O~'UI~Y rp r + b m b o u                          a.lry.rwrbrrl~-
                                                                                                                   ..

c                          ,"-'Peze-                                                    .,--_-,
                                                .-roo
    LrnOL OLLC2=   LO-- -E                                  -c
                                     vI0    I--                                                                 ~y~~N~NNOm~OhCLn~0~~0~ 0~000mm000.*oOOONOLn
 :-                                                  -- -         0 C           mN--

                                         u-G             OOC                m
                :                                    0            c-
                 =                      -                              0

                                               0
   U                      c                                   m


                                                                             - -               "*,c='.


                                                                                    -

                                                                                                      ,%--NO
                                                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                                                              N    c

                                                                                                                                                                                                     - -
                                                                                                                                                                  L- YO QL U        C- a-            w    -0 N-       N

                                                                                                                                                                                             c

                                                                              -N 0-Q --0 rn.QW.                                                            990    N- NO- 90.4)      ""1Q      b0.r      N- a~m
                                                                                                                                                                                                          urn*         ...

                                                                                                                                                                               ---                             --- ...
                                                               NN- mom n-rn
                                                                    ...                                     A,--091                                           WON                       Q?ru,     ~OO

                                         Update o f Econmic Analysis
                                         ...........................
                                          Phnsing of cCA Development
                                                (Rs. M i l l i o n )

P h n s i n g of CCA
 D e v c l . ( '000 hn)
.....................................

v e e r
C u j n r e t
   A M W ~ I
   Accun.
R e j a r t h a n
    A r u m ~ ~ l

    Acc~m.
l o t e l




                                                                        I-'
                                                                        m
                                                                        I-'

  N O     o  c

-    N- Q- nh


              .--
           CN




 - - N mn r-w




                     Page     latle  7




                         2
                                   2L
                          of

                            3

Page     Table


    3
              21.
     cf

       3

                                                                                                                                                       -                     -                                     -                                                                                                                                     -
                                                       -                                                       - b - -               .-                      0 5 h              g               -.                                                   - -
                                                                                                                                                                                      0           s      C 0          0 0 C            0,                                                -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0                    0 0 N                                                                                                                 C       h

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
xwatt2 c                   =3u--c ""      .- .-                  2.25=3:         oU~r.0:                                                                                                                              qu                 SU                                                                                                                   Pu                           -
                                                                                        -L   UU3UOU         L-                                u     N q.T 00 00      u N      S" 00 00 u. N        0.7 00 00   u N 00 00 u N                                                                                          000s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO 00   u     N            00 00 4 N 0               u
     +                                                                                                                                   -                                                                                                                                                               N                     u N        0000 u N 00"- OOQO                   u N                 ooeo           u N      0040
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
          b- 0-                           01                L                                                             -.-                                                                                                                                                                -a
                                            Oi LOU-          .O                                        DLLLl  "PI-- LUC       cvl- u-  3-
      ,:  >        6 UO-
        .:                                                     .                          --L                          I                                                                                                                                       -4- N 0     w          uu- N-              w-                      rn-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ?--N                                   Cum-        N                  C                                 c
           >       ID-                                          .                                                       PI   x                                                   5'                                                        -.
                                                                                                                                               u n      ". 8         e n               0 4         2
                                                                                                                                                                                           rr)              0 4 n       ? 8     u n n 0 0 u                         L'-     rn 0 e w-                 u                   rn0 u           0 u             4       0 W           u u                    Q          u w

                                                         05s .-            .--
               -.--                                                                                                                                                                                 z.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                      L UCC I"" PITt L.-U     E.-.-                                                m>-                                              N   8 Z               m            N      n             0     n     9 F=       u c Q             h                 m- 0 woo                m-                         ZOZ             D'OC             9"     mm0z hWO-00w          a               rn~-ond@~      QCC     nournbud
                      mw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rn                                                                                                               .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N                                                           ?
                                                                                                                                                                                   -                                          -              -                                                    --              ---.
            re                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .--
                                 3-0. .F uCI- L. L U 9
                                                   "-a.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -.-a @ad                          -.-u
                                                                                                                                                                     -.-.                      d          zg   %                                                                                                             zs
                                        -.                                                                                                                                                                                          dn' no                                                 ..                                        -.r!
                        L-                                                                                                                              -                                                           .-
                                                                        -3.                                                                    4u on un                    0- -3 m        n m                   ::       en ha   mu                   no nu we b-m- mo            n mu                 nu   Q*                  n             00n h-l O.          00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         z
                                                                              V). 01.                                                                    -                 n' on 0 u n' n                                      0              n                                   u                                              u               u
              .
                          s                              *
                                                        I




                                                                                                                                               u ONN      c38
                                                                                                                                                                  mmo    g

                                                                                                                                               u


                                                                                                                                                m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page     Table



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3

                                                                 Toble 25
U a l e r Balance ( M d )                                                      Cont inued
.........................                                                      ................
'Irnr.                                         1 9 ?ooo ?no1 ?no7  ?nor   ?no!,  ?oo5     7nnb  ?no7 7onn

Mrnrr U t i I i z a h l c F I o u ( l / )
t n rotlte r i v e r s
Ftlbl i c ground water (new)
P r i v a t e C .   u a t c r ( e x i s t )
Pr i v n t e C.     unter (new)
         l o t a l soirrce


I r l ) ~ream d i v e r r i o n ( 2 / )
         t
l r r igat i o n ( d i v . )
l r r i q a l i o n ( w e l l )
M! 1
RBrtl uater realses
Others ( 3 / )
         Total use
 ..................

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C     9                    U                        N yr
a,.
                                                                                                                                    -                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              g
                             N         c      2                         CU            0                                N0                           a                    2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                        h                                   z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N 0                                                          N 0                           %                  N 0 N 0                                       N            0 N                                       N
                                                                                                                                                     --                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N                                       N a                                N N        0 u                                        N. 0 N In

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
       e                      .                88=X82                                                 --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                           000mOr EOOOOO                                                                                                                                -                                                                                                                      g,,,,,                                           gggZ8S
              ,.A                       OJWNN~               u N ?a ooomoh 000000                           & qua-N-N-N-             oammon oooooc                                                                                                                  --                                                                                                                                                   .-                                                                                                   .-
                                                                                                                                                            N             Su                             u QGWNNN C00"O"
                                                                                                                                                                                                              N                                              oooooo        h                           q.-uNNh ggzzgz  a N OeaNNN oommo* COOOOO                            a N Oa                          00mmom OOOOOO       N                                      000000 a N Puu-NN."                                            N qaaNNN OOQ~O~ 000000                        a & OGdNNN oommon OOOOOO

                               .--.                                                                                                                                                                                        --..                                                                                                          -...
                 C-NS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -.
                                                                 --NS u-N-N-"                               --NO                                             CCNC           4YN-2                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....                                                                                                                                                     ....                                                  ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                               --Nk                                                         --NO                                            --NC                                               --NC aNNh                                        --~e          .-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ?.-NG                                           --NO                                                --N6
         --                                                                                              -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .                                                                                                                                                     ..
                                                             u                                                                                          --                                                                                                                                                                                                                --
                                                                                                                                                                                                          u                                                           a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        a                                                                                                  a                                                   --
           --                                                 --                                          --                                                                                               --                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u                                                   a

                                                                                                                                                           -
                     c<.-c990 qm-qy5,~-              ~~S2~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                           --
                                                                 haa-Oae N-b--~N-'O-N- mm-a-mn -00"hhO          NJu-oao  q"-qN-qo-N- -mn-~~m QOON~QO      -                                                                                                                                                              --                                                                                                 --
                                                                                                                                                                 Nus-OInQ mmnnomm hOO-QUO
                                                                                                                                                                                 9"-?N.45?                         muu-Om0     N.".Q.N.".9N.                                                                                                                                               .                                                                                                                                     --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Q"n"NO?- mooo~no                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..-...-                          --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nac-mmm    sv19N.=.Q.N. 2~Z~4ZZ                                                                                                                                   .".".N.N.SN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WtUU-hmm       q"-tNb'=N.h"?-O-YU" -0OQOOO  -- uau-hem ""-c'-\<-qN- -""mhh" OODOONO                 aau-bmm a """WOO" Q00~0"O                                                         8ZRgZLZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -CC      uaa-am6 9V19N.9*-N.                            maa-am0           mmON4aN ~mncaem ~OOO0OO           m-zu-Sm~         S"7DNm-N emmoOom NOCOhNO



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         --                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ---
        a                                                       a                                       u                                              u                                                     u                                                                                                             u                                                  u                                               4                                                     u                                              .7                                                  a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Page     Table


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3

                                                                          ... ...
                                                                            -

                                                         NARHAOA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-CUJARAI
                                                         ....-.-----.----.---.-....------.
                                                            U d a t c of Economic Analysis
                                                            ----.--------.-----.-...--.
                                                          Ouildup of land P r o d u c t i v i t y
                                                                      (Rs. M i l l i o n )

Bui\dwp 04          \ a d
p r d u c t i v i t y ( r i e t r e t u r n )
..............................
V i t h o u t p r o j e c t - -     i r r i g a t e d
V i t h o t ~ lp r o j e c t - -    r a i n f r d
uithnrtr projrct ~ v e r a q e

V i r h p r o j e c t . - i r r i g a t e d
v i t h p r o j e c t -. r a i n f e d




        Adopt ion crrrve
        Arrtrn.
        Tear
    Veighred buildup
        l e a r                   Ann. i n t r n
        I 9'72                          0.00
        1W3                             0.00
        1 W 4                           0.00
        1 W5                   a      70.26
         1 W 6                       121.86
         lW7                         176.28
         1998                        196.12
         1P?P                       276.91
        2000                         296.72
        2001                        260.67
        2002                         186.65
        2003                         176.87
        2004                         102.85
        2005                           74.80
             \or a1                1940.00

Bui lchp of Inrd
prcductfvity(net return)
---.-.-...-.-...-----..-.-....--.
without project   - - irrlgeted
without project   - -rainfed
Wi thoot project nvernge

With project   - -Irrigoted
with project   - -rainfed

   Armonl block hllldryr

     Adopt ion curve
     Acc~m.
     Year
   Weighted buildup
     Year            AM.  Inten
     1992               0.00
     1w3                0.00
     1 W 4              0.00
     1WS          '     70.26
     1996             121.86
     1997             176.28
      lW8              196.12
      lW9             276.91
      2000            296.72
      2001            260.67
     7002              186.65
     7003              176.87
     2004              102.85
     7005               74.00
        Iotal        1940.00

.-




  169




     Page


         1
          of -



            8


Page
           -I
             *IY--




    3
     of

       8

                                                                                              --
                                                                                               T a b l e 27
                                                                                               Page L     of 8



                           Footnotes to Table 27- Envlronmenta!Adjustment


Column B: Possible estuary losses of hilsa assumed to be 33% of the mean annual 1986-1989
catch of 3400 tons from Year 15 increasing to 5070by Year 25. Nct vnluc niter fishing cxpcnscs is
assumed to be Rs 10per kg. Water volume passing down to the estuary in the early stages will
still be substantialbut silt load will be reduced. Hilsado not migrate up past the dam site, but there
is likely to be some effecton the downstream hilsa fishery. Strictly speaking, the loss of water
volume is attributableto all dams to be developed, not simply to SSP,the loss of silt in the estuary
is attributable predominantly to SSP in the early years but later again to all dams as they develop
upstream. Possibleestuary losses of prawn assumed to be 33% of the mean annual 1986-1989
catch of 3400tons with the loss starting in Year 15increasing to 50% by Year 25. Net value after
fishingexpenses is assumed to be Rs 30per kg. Losses throughout the river and estuary of other
types of fish are assumed to be 30%of the hilsa loss figures.

Column C: Wildlife losses assumed to be equal to 50% of the forest losses on the 11,600ha of
forest area, but with the quantity of wildlife falling by 1.5% over a 20-year period in line with the
present trend of loss of habitat However,against this trend, the per unit value of forest is
assumed to rise by 1%per year in real terms for the first 20 years, i.e. somewhat lower than the
physical rate of loss,and then by 2%per year thereafter i.e. somewhat higher than the physical rate
of loss to allow for increased real amenity valuefappreciationof wildlife over time.

Column D: Wildlifebenefits,excludingbenefits to parks receiving water which are treated
separately, are assumed to be the benefits of the improved lakeshoreenvironment at the reservoir
boundary and the benefits to waterfowl. The assumption is a Rs 2 m per year benefit rising by 1%
per year for the increasing amenity value.

Column E: The net of the above wildlife costs and benefits.

Column F: The estimated costs to parks and naturereserves. This is set at zero sinceno parks or
reserves are inundated in the submergencearea and elsewherethe increased productivity from the
command area developmentshould decreaserather than increase the pressure on parks.

Column G: The estimated park benefits. Four parkdreservesare expected to benefit from the
irrigation urateror from the proximity of the resexvoir. Rs lm benefit each per year is estimated.

Column H: The net of the parks costs and benefits.

Column I: Compensatory afforestation costs. This is set at zero to flag its presence as an activity
but10 indicate that this is not mated as an economic cost because the value of the lost forest has
already been accounted for in theDam costs land loss calculation. To value this as an economic
cost would be double counting.

Column J: Minor forest product cost (gums, dyes, fermented liquors, medicines, "smokes"leaves,
etc),which are small due to the advanced state of degradationin the submergence zone, are
assumed to be 20% of the value of the forest loss. In the "without project" situation one would
expect these to fall over time but they have been left at a constantvalue here.

Column K: Minor forest product benefits. This is set at zero since, although the command area will
have very much greater annual incremental biomass production than the submergencearea, it is
assumed that mostly this will not be the "minor forest product" type of species.

ColumnL:The net of the minor forestproduct costsand benefits.

                                                                                             Table 27
                                                                                             Page 5 of E



Column M: Public Health costs are based on estimates of Rs 350 m for surveillance and control of
water related diseases in 1989prices over a period of 5 years. Thereafter, the operating costs are
assumed to be 50% of that.

Column N: Public T.lcallhbenefits arc cxpcctcd to bc vev substnntinl due to the supply of reliable
drinking and washing water to 30 million people and to the large increasein food production and
income increases. It is difficultto estimatethe value of those benefits but they are assumed here to
be equal to the costs per annum but not starting until Year 20. This may be a substantial
underestimate.

Column 0:The net of the public health costs and benefits.

Column P: Navigation costs in the estuary, if there are any, would not start until about Year 35
when non-monsoon flowsreach lower levels. Given return flows from water use and
environmentally sound reservoir operation the lowest river flow is not expected to be lower than
the present lowest flow,it therefore seemsprobable that there will be no navigation costs but Rs 2
m per year starting after 35 years has been assumed.

Column Q: There are possibilitiesof navigation benefits. Benefits from using the canal have been
studied,but found too costly for large boat navigation. However, there may be benefits to estuary
navigation from the evening out of the water flow and there may be benefits from reservoir
navigation because of its long narrow shape. The reservoir will also, by collecting silt reduce sand
bar build up in the estuary. A notional Rs 1m navigation benefit is assumed.. (Note that local
transport benefits on roads associated with canals have not been included, although the roads are
part of the canal developmentcost)

Column R: The net of the navigation costs and the navigation benefits.

Column S: The cost of moving minor village shrineshas been included in the R&R costs. The
costs given here arefor the three largertemples which will be moved The total estimated cost is
less than Rs 2 m. Rs 3 m over three years is allowed for to include some contingency.

Column T: No benefits to monuments arc expected,so this is set at zero.
                                                                          . -

Colurnn U: The net of monument costs and benefits.

Column V: Rare plant lossescosts. Investigationshave found no rare plant specieslikely to be lost
to mankind in the submergencearea due to the degraded nature of the area, but to be conservative
we put a cost on the reduction in the number of individuals equal to 50%of the value of the loss of
forest to inundation and treat the changesover time in quantity and value in the same way as
wildlife were treated under the wildlife column.

Column W: Rare plant benefits are not expected,except possibly for some lakeshore species and
somebenefits to certain plants from an improved micro-climate in the vicinity of the reservoir and
t!e command area. The positive value to rare plants is set at zero.

Column X: The net of the costs and benefits to rare plants.

Colurnn Y: The carbon/oxygen balance costs due to inundation are related to the loss of oxygen
output from the inundated vegetation currently growing in the inundation area and the storage of
carbon by the stock of vegetation in that area. This is expected to be vastly outweighed by the
enormous incremental production of oxygen from the irrigation command area and the enormously
greater incrementalvolume of carbon storage from the trees in the command area. (The canal side
trees alonc will have far greater carbon storagecapacity than the trees lost to inundation.) No

                                                                                                 Table 27
                                                                                                 Page 6 of t



anempt has been made to claim this benefit for the project by placing a value on i t However, to
indicate its presence we put a notional Rs lm on the cost sidein this column and a notional Rs 2m
on the benefit side in the next column.

Column 2:See explanation above.

Column AA: The net of the carbordoxygen balance columns.

Column AB: The micreclimate is defined here as the contribution to greatermoisture in the
atmosphere. There is no cost to the project since the evaporation from the open water surface of
the reservoir is expected to be about equal to, or greater than, the evapetranspiration from the
degraded dry deciduous woodland and the rainfed cropland to be inundated.

Column AC: There is expected to be a substantial micro-climate benefit from the very high levels of
total evapo-transpirationfrom the crops and canals in the irrigation area. The value of this has not
been calculated but a notional Rs 1 m per year is assumed.

Column AD: The net of the micro-climate costs and benefits.

Column AE: The cost of induced pressure on neighbouring areas due to the loss of Iand to
inundation isa difficultcalculation. There is considerabledanger of double counting since costs of
compensatingProject Affected Persons have already been included and because the lake and
lakeshore environmentcan probably locally increase human and animal carrying capacity
substantially,although care has to be taken in the management of that environmentto avoid
erosion. A substantialportion of the so-called inundated area is not actually lost to production; it
will change from a poor soil rainfed site to a good soil irrigated site on which annually, as the
reservoir water retreats, there will be very productive "draw-down" farming on the excellent soils
(due to the siltation) using residual moistureplus pumped irrigation on both the draw-down area
and in certain locations away from the reservoir edge. These two activities to8ether seem likely to
give at least 10,000ha of irrigated land, which, at a ratio of 3:l in terms of imgated to rainfed
production per hectarewould more than match the lost productivity of the predominantly rainfed
submergencearea production and provide substantialquantitiesof by-products. Furthermore,
catchmenttreatment will have productive benefits as well as sedimentationreducing effects.
Notwithstanding the abovepoints, in order to be conservative,the assumption has been made that
there would still be an induced pressure cost on one third of the equivalent of the inundated area to
the extent of reducing its annual productivity by Rs 500per ha.

Column AF:The benefits from changes in induced pressure arise from the capacity of the inigated
command area to provide an improved livelihood to large numbers of families who would
otherwise be forced to exploit rapidly degrading grazing and forest land. The inigated area will
feed very large numbersof livestock on by-products. The value of this decreased pressure is
difficult to calculate. It is certainly substantiallygreater than the increased costs around the
submergence area estimated above. However, it is assumed for the purposes of this analysis to be
equal to the costs of the increased submergencearea pressure as estimated above, but starting after
15years. To put the pressure issue in perspective,it is worth noting that with rural populations
rising at a rate of at least 1.5% per year the annual pressure equivalent in the command area is
about 27,000 ha (1,800,000 has time 1.5%)thus in less than two years this pressure equivalent
comes to more than the area lost to inundation.

Column AG: Tne net of the costs and benefits from changes in induced pressure.

Column AH: Costs of flood control provided by the darn are the losses of nutrients that may give
some benefit following a flood. An annual mean benefit of Rs. 200 per ha on 5,000 ha
downstream is assumed.

                                                                                                  T a b l e 27
                                                         175                                      P a g e 7 of 8




Column AI: Flood control benefits from the dam are expected to be substantial. In previous years
a number of villages have been virtually destroyed, a considerableamount of farm equipment
d,arnagedand a number of lives lost A mean annual cost of flood damage to land, property and
human life downstream of the dam is estimated at Rs. 5m per year.

Column AJ: The net of flood control costs and flood control benefits.

Column AK: Salinisation costs are set at zero because a very substantialexpenditurehas been
provided in the project costs for both horizontal and vertical drainage to ensure that salinisation
doesnot have a significant impact and because in the benefit analysis those soil types most at risk
have already been assumed to have a 25% lower yield than the anticipated average for that soil type
to allow for the risk of waterlogging and salinisation.

Column AL: There will be some benefits in certain areas due to increased surface fresh water
percolation pushing back the sub-surfacesalinity boundary somewhat. The extent of this benefit is
uncertain so a notional Rs. lm annually is put on this.

Column AM: The net of salinity costs and salinity benefits.

Column AN: There are not expected to be any costs in terms of reduced or salinised groundwater
due to the project therefore this is set at zero.

Column AO: There are expected to be substantialgroundwater recharge benefits from the project
Farmers pumping water will have reduced pumping depths due to the recharge from the surface
irrigation. The annual benefit of this is uncertain but it is assumed that this would give a pumping
cost reduction excludingsubsidy of Rs.80 per annum (about 65 kwh) on 25,000 wells.

Column AP:The net of groundwatercosts and benefits.

Column AQ: Tourism costs and benefitshave not yet been calculated. They are expected to be
substantial. The assumption has been made of Rs. 5m annual costs (in this column) and Rs. 10m
annual benefits (in the next column).

Column AR: See above.

Column AS: The net of tourism costs and benefits.

Colurnn AT: Totals the environmental net benefit columns in fmancial.terms.

Column AU: Shows the previous column converted to economicprices at a factor of 0.8.
m:The       imputed forest value of Rs. 126lakh per hectare for submerged land, i.e. about
US$700,000 per hectare, which has recently been quoted in newspapers in India warrants some
commenthere. It is based on a per m e valuation estimate which includes an estimate of the value
of oxygen at a bottled oxygen price, an estimateof the cost of cleaning air W~ciallyas an
alternative to the role of trees in filtering out pollution, the value of the reduced erosion in terms of
the cost of applying manure by hand to achieve the sameeffect, the cost pumping out of the ground
the equivalentamount of water transpired by a tree, the cost of rearing, and loohng after by hand,
the animals and birds displaced by the loss of the tree and, finally, the protein conversion from
green matter in terms of the value of goat meat. The problem with using this estimate, apan from
the sheermrgnitude of the fiewes,is that the methodology is faulty because it does not incorporate
"with" and "withoutproject" scenarios.

                                                                                               Page 8 of 6



        A correct analysis using the same figures and following the same logic, in fact, would find
       '

the Sardar SarovarProjects to have a massive economicrate of return (equaliy misleading, of
course) for the following reasons: (a) the irrigation in the 1.8 million hectare command area-will
result in very many more trees with much faster growth rate than in the dry degraded submergence
zone with only a few thousand hectares of forest land; therefore, pollution reduction, if it occurs at
all, will be much greater with the project than without it; (b) the photosynthetic output of oxygen
from the actively growing cropsin the command area will          outweigh that in the submergence
zone,which is much smallerand large parts of which dry off for half the year (although the issue
is, of course, net carbon storage not oxygen output);(c) the recycling of water from the ground to
the air will be &greater from the open water surfaceof the reservoirplus the irrigated command
area than from the dryland submergencezone (the area ratio being about 50 to 1); (d) no erosion
willresultunderneath the reservoirsurfacedue to theremovalof thetrees; and (e)therewill be
massively greater plant protein production for animals with the project than without it due to the
irrigation by-products and field bund grazing in the command area Coefficientsof the sort quoted
must be used for both the submergenceand the command area and the methodology must
incorporate both the "with"and "without"project situation.

Table



     28

Table



     29

,13}y                                              '-r
                                               '
                                    1I"
                L                LIO    sI0 (
   - L O 1 - : 0 - - r o L- ' 0 1             LO   6 0

+--1
0                                   (
                                 L   C10                      I
                                           I        1    I
  - W  -:0 I                  1
               1      I    I
                 0      - -10  10         SO      LO   60
    -80   -3'0   - P O -10   0     LO   PO    110'   80

                                                                     i-'
                                                                   d(
                                                                   n
                                                                    l-r
                                                                   19

                                                                   m
                                                                   4

-80 - 9 0   - P O  -20       0       2 0        PO           9 0  80

            3lrouha0J A)I1!DlClaS !lI jcaJ>al(\

   u SSd  p!AaJS!OU       .1- ndslr.ao~u    p ! A a J S ! O U

    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

               INDIA

NARMADA RNER DEVELOPMENT    -GUJARAT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
           (Credit 1553-IN)

u,              z
   e;)B ' 2 vr A




                     Page     Table


                         1
                                   1
                          of

                            6

   LoanICreditTitle  LoanlCredit            Purpose          Date of         Status                  Comments
                      Amount                                 Approval

                                on-going irrigation scheme                                3 years in completion due to
                                that had been under                                       two extreme floodsand some
                                construction since 1948.                                  construction problems. Full
                                                                                          Creditwas disbursed. The
                                                                                          project achieved its
                                                                                          objectives and the Kadana area
                                                                                          is now one of the most
                                                                                          prosperous and productive
                                                                                          areasin Gujarat.

  Credit 191-IN     US$35 M     To supportthe developmentol   1970   Credit Closed        Objectives were largely
  GujaratAgricultuml            ground water in the State                                 achieved.
  CreditProject                 through the.construction of
                                41,000 wells and about 450
                                tubewells and installationof
                                about 45,000 pump sets.

4 Credit 808-IN     US85 M      It was a first timee-slice   May-78 Closed on June 30,    Of the 22 new MIPS,only one
 GujaratMedium                  operation to supportmedium           1984.The project     sub-project (Panarn) was
 lnigation Project              irrigationprojects(MIPs) to          was fully disbursed. operaitonalin 1984.The six
                                promote investments in such                               modernization sub-projects
                                projects (individually too                                were still in the various
                                small tojustify Bank                                      stages of construction at the
                                participation) through                                    Credit Closing Date. Hence the
                                constructionof 22 new MIPS;                               full benefitscould only accrue
                                modernization of 6 projects                               under the follow-up project

Page     Table


    3
              1
     of

       6

     LoanKreditTiUe  Loadcredit            pw)ose           Dateof           Status               Comments
                      Amount                                Approval

                                of Machhu I dam and                                     the Closing Date, thereby
                                introductionof operational                              delaying or denying the
                                and management                                          benefits of irrigation
                                improvementsthrough                                     deliveries to the farmers.
                                rotational water supply                                 Notwithstanding the lack of
                                (RWS) on existing and new                               full accomplishmentof
                                schemes.                                                project objectives, many
                                                                                        positive results emanated
                                                                                        from the project,
                                                                                        particularly the planning and
                                                                                        construction of distribution
                                                                                        network in the subprojectsin
                                                                                        accordance with principlesof
                                                                                        Agreements on RWS concept       2
                                                                                        (exceptforDamanganga
                                                                                        sub-project) which started
                                                                                        making an impact in a big way
                                                                                        though late in the
                                                                                        implementation period.

6 Credit 1496-IN     SDR 164.3 Tocomplete the construction  Jun-84  Project is under    The project was restructured
  GujaratMedium     M           of 22 on-going MIPSand 6            implementationwith  in February 1991to include
  irrigationProject (USS172 M modernization schemesof the           the OriginalClosing the financing of civil works of
                    equivalent) Closed Credit 808-INas well         Dateof December     additional components from
                                as 3major sub-projectsand           31,1989having been  the previousGujaratMajor
                                the WALMI as transferred            extended to         Irrigation Project

LoanICredit Title LoanICredit           Purpose             Date of          Status                   Comments
                   Amount                                  Approval

                             from Credit 1011-IN, which             Dec.31,1992 through     (Cr. 101I-IN), namely,
                             closed on April 30,1989. The           these extensions of one WALMI, Saurashtra Coastal,
                             main objectives are to                 year each. With the     Karjan, Machhu I and Machhu
                             improve the standards of               cancellation of SDR     11.Overall, the restructured
                             design and construciton and to         15.0 M in 1211991,      project has achieved a
                             introduce an eficient,                 the revised Credit      completion level of about
                             reliable and equitable water           amount is SDR 149.3     80%. Construction of dams
                             management system through              M against which SDR     and spillways is almost
                             RWS and farmer's                       118.3 M has been        complete. Implementation of
                             participation through the              disbursed by August     distribution network,
                             creation of Watger Users               31, 1992.               hitherto lagging, has picked
                             Association to enhance crop                                    up momentum. A noteworthy
                             production.                                                    feature of project
                                                                                            implementation is the          P03

                                                                                            sustained effort of GOG in      CO

                                                                                            maximizing the introduction
                                                                                            of RWS and its rapid
                                                                                            acceptance by the farmers
                                                                                            wherever imgation has
                                                                                            commenced. This has resulted
                                                                                            in an increase in agricultural
                                                                                            production. It is expected that
                                                                                            at the current Closing Date of
                                                                                            December 31,1992, RWS
                                                                                            would be introduced in nearly
                                                                                            68% of CCA and the project

Page Table.


6
           1
 of

   6

                                                      PROJECT- GU-
                                HJWRY ANDDRAINAGEPROECL'
                                      (Credit 1553-IN)




Activities                       Date Planned                   Actual Date

1. Identification1                                         August-December 198W
   Preparation                                              1980-83

2. Appraisal                                               March, June, September, 1983
                                                           and August 1984

3. Loadcredit                   November 1984              November 8-21,1984
   Negotiations

4. Board Date                   March 1985                 March 7,1985

5. SigningDate                  May 1985                   May 10,1985

6. Effectiveness                June 1985                  January 6,1986

7. Completion                   September30,1988           Not Completed    *

8. ClosingDate                  March 31, 1989             July 1, 1992




*  Narmada Main Canal constructionhas achieved the SAR target. Achievement level on branch
   canalsisabout 50%of SAR target. Constructionof the original 12irrigation and drainage
   development blocks and of the 7 blocks includedin September 1991,has not commenced,
   thusthe SARenvisaged target of completionof 45% of distribution network and 25% of
   villagelevel network has not been achieved. Completionof the project is expected by June 30,
   1995.

                                         INDIA
                                                   Pwm-GUJARAT
                                      YANDD-
                                    (Credit 1553-IN)




Bank  Semester/                                         Actual             % Actual to
Fy    Quarter        APP&              Revised          Disbursements      SAR or
                     Projection        Projection                          Revised
                                                                           Projection
                    -------(SDR --------
                                  M)
1985  1st Semester        -                -
      2nd                1.3




1989  1stQuarter
      2nd
      3rd
      4th




-I/SDR 4.8 M cancelled from theCredit on December5,1991, thereby reducing the Credit
   amountto SDR 144.7M.

-2/Credit closed onJuly 1,1992and was completely disbursed on September 17, 1992.

                                                            INDIA

                                            NARAMADA RIVERDEVELOPMENT GUJARM
                                                                          -
                                                     VERY AND DRAIN-
                                                        (Credit 1553-IN)


                                                         (July 1, 1992)

                 Cornponent/Work               Unit Estimated           SAR Target
                                                                           -            Actual    Completion
                                                      Q~Y.                            Achievement   Level
                                                                       96      Q~Y.                 (96)

a. Main canal lining from km 9 to 21.4         Mm2    1.43            100%     1.43      0.53       37.0

b. Main canal from lan 21.4 to 143.7+
   - Excavation                                Mm3   54.46             55      29.9     45.80       153.2
   -  Embankment                               Mm3   36.56             55      20.1     24.17       120.4
   -  Lining                                   Mm2    11.96            55       6.6      4.70       71.2
   -  Structures(concrete)                    Thm3   565.00            55      310.7    403.00      129.7

c. Main canal head regulator and gated cross    %    100.00            70               54.90       87.8
   regulators
d. Sevenmajor crossdrainage structureson:
   Heran, Orsang, Dev, Karad, Meshri, Kun and
   Mahi rivers
   -  Excavation                               Mm3    1.78             55      0.98      1.20       122.4
   -  Steel reinforcement                      MT   75372.00           55    41454.6   9973.50      24.0
   - Concreteplacement                        Th m3  1129.00           55      621.O    184.10      29.6

e. Miyagam branch canal from zero to 72 km
   -  Earthwork                                Mm3    5.21             70       3.6      2.74       75.O
   -  Lining                                   Mm2    1.77             70       1.2      0.55       50.0
   - Structures(concrete)                     Th m3  63.60             70      44.5     29.00       65.2

                  ComponentIWork                 Unit Estimakd       SAR Target
                                                                        -            Actual    Completion
                                                        Q ~ Y-                     Achievement   Level
                                                                   %        Q~Y.                 (a)

f. Por, kundela and Unliya branch canals
    -  Earthwork                                Mm3     2.20       100      2.2       1.00       45.5
    - Lining                                    Mm2     0.75       100      0.75      0.03       4.0
    -  Structures(concrete)                     Thm2   23.89       100     23.89     11.30       47.3


g. Vadodara branchcanal from 0 to 102km
    - Earthwork                                 Mm3     6.74       35       2.3       1.74       73.9
    -  Lining                                   Mm2      1.85      35       0.6       0.36       66.7
    -  Stmctures (concrete)                     Th m3  107.80      35       37.7     36.66       97.3

h. Amleshwar, Sinor, Luwara,Mandeva,
   Jambusar, Skarda,Ranoli,and Dora branch
   canals
    -  Earthwork                                Mm3    14.49       35        5.1       5.0       98.0
    -  Lining                                   Mm2     3.75       35        1.3       0.3       26.0
    -  Structures(concrete)                     Thm3   158.81      35       55.6      46.3       83.3

i. 12Distributionand Drainage System
   DevelopmentBlocks: 6A1,6A2,6A3,6A4,6B,
   6C. 7C. 9Al.9B 1,9B2, 9C1and 9C2.             ha   96,900.00    25      24225       Nil       0.0



j. Distributarycanal reachesoff-taking from the
   respectivebranch canalsextending down to SAS
   to serve each of the 12distribution and
  drainage systemdevleopment blocks.             %     100.00      45        45        Ni1       0.0     .

                                                                     INDIA

                                             PJ-wm
                                                                          D-
                                                               (Credit 1553-IN)



                                        ITOW
   Component                                                        t            3 Year          Actual          Revised      Balance
                       h a l [F.E.              b a l    ~F.E.      Total      Time Slice as   ~ G n d i t u r e  Cost      Expenditure
                                                                                 per SAR        on July 1,       @.MI       to Complete
   As per Table 4       ---- US$M                 -----RS.M  -----                                 1992            2/       the Project 31

                                                                                 @.MI            (Rs.M)                        (Rs.M)

1. Main Canal           191.7     84.3    276.0 2300.5 1012.1 3312.6             2335.80         5780.25         9682.8       3902.55


2. Branch Canals         46.1     20.0    66.1    552.9'    239.5    792.4       326.20           825.1          2820.0       1994.90


3. Distributionand       28.6     3.8     32.5    243.2     46.2     389.4        114.60           0.0           1202.4        1202.20
   Drainage Systems

4.TrainingBttechnical    QJ       19                        U 1448                14.80             8.0           14.8          6.80
   Assistance

Total baselinecosts     266.6 109.1 375.8 3199.5 1309.6 4509.1
Physical Contingency     34.3     14.9    49.2    411.1     179.3    590.5
Price Contingency        229249e6986U287.91151.4
Total Project Cosls     372.8     148.1 520.9 4474.2 1776.8 6251.0               3058.72         6613.35         13,720.0     7106.65
                                                                             ,(USS254.86M) (USS289.6 M)(US$486.45 M:      (USS196.85M)

Notes:
11 1US$ =Rs.12.00;
3 RevisedcostoftheprojecthasincreasedtoRs.13.720 M,comparedtotheappraisalcostofk.6.251MasperSSNNL's
   estimate communicated to the Bank;
31 To completethe full project as described in Table 4 and the Trg. and T.A. component,based on an averageexchangerate of Rs.36.1/US$.

Page Table


1         .6
 of

   2

                Source              Planned in OriginalCreditAgreement   Provided in Revised CreditAgreement      Actual
                               Amountof Credit Allocated Disbursement Amount of Credit Allocated Disbursement (July 1, 1992)
                                       (SDRs'000)             %              (SDR '000)              %         (SDRs'000)




   Total (Rs. '000)                (Rs. loo01 6,251,000                   (Rs.) 6.25 1,000M                   (Rs. '000) 6613350 71

   RevisedProJectCost(Rs. '000)                                                                     (Rs. '000) 13,720,000WSS486.45 M)        r
                                                                                                                                             \O
                                                                                                                                             0



Notes:

    11 DCA amendedon September29,1991for financingofpartial constructionof 7additionaldistribution and drainagesystemdevelopment blocks.
   2l Disbursementpeercentage increased with effect from September 1,1990.
   31 Differencedueto crossexchangerateson specialaccounttransactions.
   41 SDRs4.8 M cancelled on December 5,1991.
   51 Though the originalcreditwasUS$ 150M;becauseofexchangeratemovementsofUS$ vis-a-vis the SDR, the revised Credit is US$ 196.6M.
   61 This doesnot reflecttrueexpendituresincedisbursementswere made at differentexchangerates through respectiveperiodsof project execution.
   71 Expenditure incumd upto July 1,1992(ClosingDate)is Rs.6613.35 M. Theupdated revised cost being Rs. 13.720 M(against the original cost
      of Rs.6,251M), the spilloverfrom the Closed Credit amounla toRs. 7106.65 M. Additional US$ 196.85M (Rs. 7106.65 M).
       will have tobe spentto achievecompletionof the SARcnvisagedproject US$=Rs.36.1 f a completingthe spilloverworks by June,1995).

                                                                                                                               Table 7
                                                                                                                               Page 1 of 4
 PAGENO.1                                                                       m u
                                              NARMADA(GUJARAT)WATER DELIVERY & DRAINAGEPROJECT
                                                                              fGlu&m
                                                                        Status of Covenants

                                                                                          Revised    Origi*
Section                                                             Typeof   Imd d        Canplinnce Complr~nec           R e m h
                                                                    C o r m 1 C o m p k e m e        Date


2.01.PA               GOGahdl a n y outpro+         dmwibcdin         ORG         2       1 I       I 1        Overallimplunentationon main canal
                      S c W e2to IbeDCA witb appropriate                                                       baabeenenmuraging and has almost
                                                                                                               achievedSAR-~~viaaged  target.
                      a    d   m      .  ~   .  c   osgr.~prfniaa ~
                                                            ~  .
                      mdpro*         tbe fimda,faal~hca,tern- .ad                                              Broachcanahand irrigation
                      olber~~~rmrcarcquindforIbeplrpore,nIl                                                    &vclopmeat blocka have suffered
                      witb diligmceand effiaeacy.                                                              alippngu.

                      GOG to any out plsming,chi@,                    ORG         2       I I       1 1        Plsludng, dcrignand sonaruction have
                      co-00,          O m of the irrig.& drsi~ge                                               beend e d ou rstirfanorily. O&M
                      ryucma,iocluding d o d o n of irrigation                                                 pbming lltedrto be strenglbened
                      water.adrerviar to Ibcfanuen.                                                            througha coreO M unit.Water
                                                                                                               U m 'Auocidorra haveatilltobe
                                                                                                               olgonized.

                      Fumirhforapprova! totbe h&on            m       MAN         2       I 1      12/31/87    TbeO&M3-durneplanr,through
                      OBM kofortbeirri .&dmbgeryltcma                                                          inmipomtionof Bank mmmentr, have
                      ~r     lmiw~ Loject(SSP)u~
                                         w v v                                                                 impmved WMS. Intenstin procuc
                      tlmdtaimplune~tapprovedp h                                                               md mmmcata by Bank on key iuucc
                                                                                                               WUwIltinuc

                                                                      MAN         4



                      hynlahukqwe arpplyof maI&                       ORG         1 '     I 1       1 I        Proanemmiof cement from pmpa
                      cnhdy rleededforcamybg out coauudion                                                     aourcuof cunent apply hn,bsen
                                                                                                               regulated by SSPExpuu Cornmince
                                                                                                               mh e a t dCaouae. Thereisno
                                                                                                               pmbh on ochermaterials.

                      Employ ccuuulmuutirlsclorytoche                 MAN         1       I I       1 1        SSNNLu mnkiagiacruriog urc of
                      h d n t i o n .Idin soconipaoe wilhWworld                                                CoaauItanurnderTahnid
                      BanlrGuidelinerplblirbedbytbeBankin                                                      Aa&tum CQalpaoeDt of SSP.
                      kzgurt 1981.

                      Fhliablid of mlmdtalw infollowiag               ORG         1       1 1      04101185    See mmmenr, SsEtion20% dove &
                      uur-mixing-&                                                                             204 bclow
                      phcmmtJuge coaaerciiDedd             a    d
                      anhnhncotr,gacr &hoiibydroulic
                      mnrimummmnni~n



                      W l i r b and mPirrPinaBorrdof CoMlltm~~ MAN                1       1 I      04101185    Nigm bpiruxmrtituodBOC
                      approvedby tbe hwciation to uaiuGujurt                                                   mcmbenhipwhich baa rtrengtbmed
                      in renewingtbe technical desim, d        e & ~                                           tbe BOC cPpPbility.
                      ~appliedhcPrryineoutPartAofIbf,
                      proiea

                      Exepuolbenwiwp b y k                            ORG         1
                      Auac.proc.of goodr        civilwro& r q & d
                      forproject d tobe h a n dad of M          t
                      pmcaedrabPn be g o n d by proviriooa of
                      ~     ~       e    t   o    t    h    u   ~   .

                      ~ s r . U t i m r N s r m d r C o o u o 1       ORG         1
                      Au*         AIM! kd.Review Committee
                      ..ds&fubrquimdto&leCIchof
                      tbem KI .ccbmplirhiu pclrporeo.




   ms for level of ccdqaliance
     -  eully c w l i 4                                                                                 Codes for Typ. of covenant
        Partiall   complied  -  not affecting 1apl.psntation                                            ALX"    Audlt
     ---
     -- Non ~omYiance                                                                                        --
                                                                                                         CRY    cost Recovery
        Not yet due                                                                                      PIN - Pinanclal
        Cove ant no longer a plicable      - should be deleted/&ifled                                        - ManagaInant L Staffing
     -- conyPiance date r     f r e r revision                                                          ORC  - Oqanlsational
        A U ~t 1year over%*
        Audlc 2 o r mare years w e r due                                                                 RPP - Roportinp
                                                                                                             - Studies
                                                                                                         TCH - Technical
    245

                                                                      198                                               Table 7
  PAGENO.2                                                                                                              Page 2 of 4
                                                                           INDIA
                                            NARMADA(GUJARAT) WATER DELIVERY & DRAINAGE PROJECT
                                                                         0
                                                                     Statusof Covenants
                                                                                    Revised    Origin$
                                                                  Type   Lrrd d     Canplianec Comphnna
                                                                  Cmmant Camplialnrc           mtc                  R e ~ r L r

                       M.int.iaNumdrD e v . D e p t . bya  ~        ORG     1       II        I I
                       tpdi6c.dofiiar,withparerr, furrclionr,
                       l u m a , rt.ffing, fundr,uc., toenable
                       it to u n & h iu mpamibilitiu foro v d
                       implanawion & ubanngmcaofSSP.

                       Curyou OdUf ofinigrtion,rnuuiapl.            ORG     4       II        II          PPI(B refa tooverall SSP.
                       ~ & & d c w r t e r ~ a u n & r
                       PPI(BofSSPdaaibedi~ScbuLle4to
                       DCAofCr.1552 (Dun).

                       ODarednu;nrrinRrUUE.H&Iof                    ORG     4



                       Atrisl
                       Su ly &dhihne idgdon,mtmicipal,              ORG     4                II           NignmIld GOG wster rupply
                                 &&m?stic WPtCr                                                           dcppnmathsve preppredpnliminnry
                       SSPdaaibedinS~k&k4=f                                                               Lduignr
                                                                                                           h r faD$f&l waterdutnbutionr.
                       0.1552 W).                                                                                          Mdertimstuore
                                                                                                          rrpoftcdtobcuu&rprrpPrstiw.

                       k u g h m r p    pirle encytobc              ORG     3       I I      12/31/88     GOOdecidedontheGEBor theO M
                       rublir*1 byE 3 1.I%         (immofPUU                                              Agency f a hydm m rbut(btlase
                                                                                                          e   a   t              bcnegdlld
                                                                                                          banu&gammdCiF.Bbasm
                                                                                                     ' .  beenrigned u,far.
                       of 0.1552 (Dm).

                       Maintnin NpIIID.d.Hiah Po-     Committeeu    ORG     1




                       M.intsipNumdDPh&gGrwpwithnrh                 ORG     2
                       pwenstrfIiPig&fmdr,ac.pclYMekto
                       tmdertakcitt rerpoalibilitiu f aanyiag out
                       Llrnningrtudierof the Numdp River
                          v9roj.jocl.0dt~ of bydmdecpowerik
                       wprerdclivery&d&agefdiliu

                       MaimahtbeCcatlPlPnruMvlrUnit.within          ORG     1
                       NarmsdaDevSem.beded by8auali6ed




                       MsinrPirraiMIS 0 M . w i t h t h e           ORG     1       II      1Y3llsS       UdaD i r r c l o r G d(MIS), his
                                                                                                                                      md
                       Nannada DevSep.,hmdcdby8qualitid                                                   d, MISmtinuingtomakcvay
                                                                                                               htB
                                              -
                       officrrMdurigoadwithnrhpowen&                                                      good pmgrur l ~ w uthe~rbievemcnt
                                                                                                                                  d
                       fundr.#c.,toedeitto.ccomplirbiu                                                    of tug&    o b j d v a .
                       puporu.

                       FulniJh:pluvse      rc-.          -  .       ORG     1
                       "xo* brU&w                    .CEz%iIf,
                       m r k c 8 ~ ~ d b t P d o c r & ~ f o r
                       reviewiacl.B.llk       d r e
                       aubr*ltrimT*                p..,coWuS
                       proj.compLrep~6wrothr afterclocing,ctd.




codes for level of ccapllmce
1   -                                                                                            Codem for Type of covenant
       Fully C ~ 1 l . d
                                                                                                  ADT     Audit
3   I m~glayi~colied -         not affecting 1-1-ntatlon
                                                                                                  CRY   --Coot Recwew
 4                                                                                                      --Plnanclal
2   -- Not yet due                                                                                PIN
       cove ant no longer a plicable                                                                      mnapmmont L Staffing
       ~o$iurce      date r   fr        - should b. &letedlmodified                               )(AN
                                 u rwiaion                                                        ORG     Orpanlaatlorul
m   ---AU  t I year o v e r x e                                                                   RPT   --Reporting
A2     ~ u d l t2 or more years war due                                                           STD   - Studies
                                                                                                  K H   - Technical
PA245

                                                                                                                             Table 7
                                                                                                                             Page 3 of 4
PAGENO.3                                                                       INDIA
                                          NARMADA(GUJARAT) WATER DELIVERY & DRAINAGEPROJECT
                                                                             10
                                                                        Statusof Covenants
                                                                                        R e v i d  Originfl
                                                                     Typed   Lcra d     CompLiancc ~omphmee              Remarks
                                                                     CovcluntCompliance me         Date


                    Fumirh a c m i - . ~ d& annualreponson             RPT
                    prograrof the pro*,     witbin3 moahniter
                    thc e d of cub rcporungpaiod.

                                                                       ORG




                    Infomof my codition wbich imcderu or               ORG
                    thatem toiPtafacwith p-s                of the
                    pyW.uxmmplirhmtlrrB
                             ofiu ObliptionnmKLs
                    &-a

                    CuuertioatobcuLmtorquirednrh                       ORG
                    kod&righuurUbcnquirrddfwnlh,
                    Ef.uc    y ofta rquintiw.evidencelbsi~ c h
                             nghu      avdmbicfor pl~paer
                    rcl.tadto*p~~pct

                                                                       ORG




                    Tokc,withiniuStatebou&uks, dl m~nmr                                 I 1       I I        GOGhasinitidlaiwbutithasstill
                    t o ~ ~ o f m n l s r i n , f i l p r i o ,                                              toprepen.adimplcmcnta
                    ~hirtoaomhir& other~ a r r l n t ediacam     d                                           eomprebc~ivc&me        totackle
                    t hm y d       t from impleancatstionof tbe                                              malaciada k r wata-borne
                    pcoject.

                                                                       FIN


                    Fumilllcope of uxounu d tilmcid                    FIN
                    nstcmcntarelnted totbc projsclforeach N



                    Cuuedepumcau& cacicr araaemal to                   ADT
                    haveheir -mtr        &fhincinlUakmcIyIfor



                    Eirmish t k Audit Report to Ihc hrociotion         ADT
                    immediatelyfollowingiU tkdimim

                    FumirhRKb otkr infomationre.-1s                 &  FIN
                    records,finand memcaU. d.udit
                    &eraof, u IbeAsrocintion dull r c u o d y
                    nupKIlfromtirnctocimc.

                    Fumirhr lndytodaecminc ievd of                     CRY                                   GOG'r3-        studyfrll r e e d y
                    irrigation wafer chugel to m v a full OdkM                                               td,idrGradthcfinalrepon
                                                                                                                            e
                    cod*and lbtrufta implacat tk h c t a by                                                  rhcduled fordiaribution in July.1991.
                    mainhhhg irrigatioaw ~cah g urt d                                                        u ail1ndd y .
                    timts.


 as for level of c m l l u r c e
   - Fully mmpllod                                                                                   codes f o r       of covenant
   --                                                                                                 ADT  - Audit
      Partlall  c q l i e d - not affoctlng i n p l a n t a t l o n
      non ~omYiance                                                                                   CRY  - Cost Rocwery
   -- Not yet due                                                                                     PIN - Pinanclal
      cove ant no l o w e r a plicable  - should be delatod/aodlfied                                  llAN   M n a g m n c k Stafflng
   ;;~3>y;~>~~a;qu$               revision                                                            ORC  --Organisatlonal
                                                                                                      RPT  - Reporting
   - Audlc 2 or more years over due
                                                                                                      TCH  - Technical
  245

                                                                                                                                   T a b l e 7
                                                                                                                                   Page 4 of 4
  PAGENO.4
                                                                                INDIA
                                               NARMADA(CUJARAT) WATER DELIVERY & DRAINAGE PROJECT

                                                                          Statusof Covenants

                                                                                        Revised     Origild
                                                                    Typed     Led d      Compliance Compliance
                                                                     &?-1     COKIIP~JICC
                                                                                        D&          Date

                         Mpiotniaa .Utimer the municipal,domestic        ORG     4       I I       I I
                         &hcb8tri.l wlrtcrchrguinnollrclvcdby
                         SSPrsuchlevclrtocovafull Opvstiorlr&
                         ~~dr               podon rnpitnlm a .

                         kLintriDr syrtem of m      e.ccwo(r within      CRY     6      I 1       04101189     GOG humtrofar proscbcdthe
                                                                                                               M.h    ~ r o u g gGOI,%~r revised hc.
                                                                                                                                   ~

                         corn-,      and (b)tk b c r c h r g u
                         c   o  w

                         T.lrcdlarb d o n u wcaury,including             ORG     2
                         provirionof fuadr, to complete,in r timely
                         Imima.i m i ~ p&P   dminage8ydm8 &
                         bcfsupplyfralrtlgunder     PwBofSSP.

DCA3.01~                 CuveGujrmto performin                  with     ORG     1
                         Rojcct AgmxmW ud R a j n ~ to perform
                                                          b
                         rr pmvidedforin&c Decimntowards
                         implcmeocntionoftk    ma.including
                         omvirionof fuodr.fraliliu.raviccr d


DCA3.01b                 M.iacpiom.Utimcr,tbcNPnnoh~l                    ORG     1
                         Autboriw d the N.rmdr Review




coder for level of coaplimce
1    -                                                                                                Coder for Type of Covenant
         Pully complied
$    I Fpaia~l~~~liod - not a f f e c t i w 1npl.m~ntarlon                                             ADP     Audit
                                                                                                       CRY     Cost Recwely
                                          -
 4   -   Not yet due                                                                                   PIN ----Plnancial
                                                                                                               h n a g a n t r Staffing
                                                                                                       ORC     ~ a n l r a t i o n a 1
                                                                                                       RP'C    Reporclng
~2  ---- Co liance dace r Pros revfaion
        covenant no lower a plicabl          ahould be bolecod/mdified                                 )VIN

         ~ u s 1t year over%e
         ~ u d i t2 or more years over due
                                                                                                       STD --- StUdiec
                                                                                                       TCH - TecMcal
PA245.

Table



     8

                                                            INDIA

                                        NAR-EVELOPWW                     - G U I U

                                                       (Credit 1553-IN)



   Stageof ProjectCycle MonthlYear No. of Days in        Specialization    Performance         Type of                 Comments
                                    Persons Field       Represented 11      Rating 2/        Problems 31

1. Before Appraisal        N.A
2. Appraisal to Board
   Approval                N.A
3. Board Approval
   through effectiveness 09185-10/85  3      16  ENIPROULEG                    N.A    TPR/QiUC               Mission to review
                                                                                                              procurementand overall
                                                                                                              progress in satisfying dated
                                                                                                              Covenants prior to
                                                                                                              Effectiveness.
4. Supervision           W 6 - 0518    6     6   EN(3)/pROClR&RIMIS              3    PROCIHydromeVENVN       SupervisionMission
                                                                                      (Lack of environmental
                                                                                      clearanceheld up
                                                                                      projectimplementation)
                           01/87       4     5   EN(3)/MIS                      3 0   ENVN(as aboveYQkEC      Review Mission
                           02187       1     4   PROC                           3 0   PROC(1ackof environ-    Review Mission
                                                                                      mentalclearancedelayed
                                                                                      pmmment)
                           06187       5     5   EN(3wROWS                      311   QfUM                    SupervisionMission
                           11/87       3     2   EN(2YWMS                      N.A    T(Plan of Operation     Review Mission
                                                                                      and Maintenance)
                           12/87       6      5  EN(3)mRCXYMISMrMS              311   M/Q/MISfhg.             SupervisionMission
                           01188       2     4   CementBtConcrete              N.A    CementlConcreteQuality  A specialmission to identify
                                                 SpecialistlEN                                                and rectifycement/concrete
                                                                                                              quality problems.

                           05/88       7      6  EN(4)1R&RMrMCIMIS              311   M/ORG/TMIS/R&R          SupervisionMission
                                                                                      QlBlockDevelopment
                                                                           I
          ---

Stageof ProjectCycle MonWYear No. of Days in             Specialization     Performance          Typeof                     Comments
                               Persons Field            Represented 11        Rating 2l         Problems 31

                     W89-0518!     8        5   EN(4)mN/AG/WMS(2)                 311   M I O R W I M I ~ E L E U SupervisionMission
                                                                                        Block Development
                        12/89      8        4    EN(4)/MIS/N(Roalss)/             211   Block DevlORG/Roadsl       Supervision Mission
                                                 WMS(2)                                 LECIHydromet
                        05/90      7        4   EN(3)/AGOEC/O&tM/WS               211   O&M/MISIPOMIBlock Rev. Supervision Mission
                        05/91      1        3    (2) EN                          N.A    T/F                        SSPImplementation Review
                                                                                                                   Mission
                        06/91      7        3   EN(4)/PROC/EN(Roads)iWMS          2/1   T/PROC/O&M/Block Dev. Supervision Mission
                        01/92      8        5   EN(4)/WMS(2)IR&Rl                 211   MlO&M/Hlth/R&RI
                                                 Health Specialist                      Block Development/         SupervisionMission
                                                                                        PCR
                        07192      9        5    EN(3)/EUENVNMrMS/LEG             211   PCRIENVNtTl
                                                 Health SpecialistlR&R                  Health/ R&R                SupervisionMission
                        M/93       1        2    EN                              N.A    PCR                        PCR Mission


ht&s
Abbreviationsas used

Specifitionsrepresented 11:   EN higation Engineer; EC EooMlmist; AG Agriculturist; PROC Fbmrement Specialist; FIN
                                   -                        -              -                    -                           -
                              Financial Analysl; TRG Training Specialist;AG.EC Agriculturist Economist; SOC Sociologist R&R -
                                                        -                         -                           -
                              Resettlanent& RehabilitationSpdalisC WMS Water Management Specialist; O&MS Operations
                                                                            -                                    -
                              MaintenanceSpecialist; LEG - LegalSpecialist: MIS   - ManagementInformation Specialist.

PerformanceRatings:            1st indicator; 1- mina problems; 2 m d t e problems; 3 maja problems;
                                                                    -                  -
                              2nd indicator, 1  - improving; - static; -deteriorating.
                                                             2         3

Types of Problems:            M Management Problems; F- FinanW, OR Organisational; T Technical (Engineering); LEC - Legal
                                 -                                         -                -
                              Covenants; PR Procurement; Q Quality Control; TOE Implementationof GOI's Teamof Experts
                                               -                  -                   -
                              recommendations; POM Plan of Operation & Maintenance; PCR ProjectCompletion Report.
                                                        -                                   -

