Document of
The World Bank
IFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MI CROFI CHE COPY
ReportNo. 10217
Report No. 10217-IND Type: (PCR)
ROMAIN, R./ X31740 / T-9011/ OEDD1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2101-IND)
DECEMBER 30. 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restrictcd distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency: Rupiah
Rate of Exchange:
Appraisal (March 1981)                      US$1.00=Rp 625
January 31, 1983-September 11, 1986         US$1.00=Rp 970-1100
September 12, 1986-November 7, 1990         US$1.00=Rp 1640-1858
0OVERNENNT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS    -      National Development Planning Agency
BPG         -      Regional Inservice Training Center
DGHE        -      Directorate General for Higher Education
DGPSE       -      Directorate General for Primary and Secondary Education
FKIP        -      Education Faculty of Universities
GOI         -      Government of Indonesia
IKIP        -      Secondary Teacher Training Colleges
MOEC        -     Ministry of Education and Culture
O&M         -      Operations and Maintenance
PPPG        -      National Subject Matter Center
PUSDIKLAT   -      Center for Educational Administration
REPELITA VI -      Five-Year Development Plan (1994/95-1998/99)
SAR         -      Staff Appraisal Report
SGO         -     Primary Sports Teacher Training School
SGPLB       -      Special Education Teacher Training College
SPG         -      General Primary Teacher Training School
TAMU        -      Technical Assistance Management Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D C 20433
U S A
Office of Dtecot-Geweral
Opefiatons Evaluatiin
December 30, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Indonesia Second
Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101-IND)_
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Indonesia Second Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101-IND)"
prepared by the former Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 2101-IND)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface.                                                                         i
Evaluation Summary .iii
PART I       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ................    1
Background ....         .....  ..........................   1
Project Objectives and Description ....................   2
Project Design and Organization.                                    3
Project Im-lementation.                                         . 4
Project Results ....................................... 8 
Strengths and Weaknesses: Lessons Learned .11
Project Sustainability .13
Bank Performance .14
Borrower Performance .14
Project Relationship .15
Consulting Services .15
Project Documentation and Data .15
PART II    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORPOWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Description and Analysis .16
Lessons Learned .......................................  20
PART III   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits .23
Table 2. Project Timetable .24
Table 3.   Loan Disbursements ...... .............................  25
Table 4.    Project Implementation ...............................   26
Table 5.    Project Costs ..........             .....................  28
Table 6A.  Project Financing . ...............................  29
Table 6B.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds ............................. 30
Table 7.   Project results - Number of Institutions Assisted and..
Additional Student Places Provided ....................  31
Table 8.   Staff Development - Overseas Fellowsh4p Program .32
Table 9.   Staff Development - In-country Training ...............  34
Table 10.  Specialist Services ...................................  35
Table 11. Teaching Material Development .37
Table 12. Project Studies .                                                     38
Table 13. Status of Covenants .39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officia! duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Table of Contents (continued)
Table 14.  Use of Bank Resources .................................   40
Table 15.  Mission Data . ...................................  40
Annexes:
1. Sectoral Developments and Issues in Teacher Education
2. Project Costs by Source of Finance and by Implementation Unit
3. Project Primary Teacher Training Schools (SPGs and SGOs)
4. Enrollments (1980/81-1989/90) and Graduates (1989/90) of Secondary
School Teacher Training Colleges (IKIPs/FKIPs) supported under the
Project
5. Some Areas Needing Special Attention



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2101-IND)
PREFACE
This is tne Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Teacher
Training Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2101-IND in the amount of US$80.00
million was approved on March 16, 1982.  During the course of implementation
US$0.9 million was cancelled. The loan was closed on June 30, 1990, two years
behind schedule. The last disbursement was made on November 7, 1990.
Parts I and III were prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division of Country Department V of the former Asia Regional Office, which also
prepared the Preface, Evaluation Summary and Annexes. Part II is a summary of
a very comprehensive report prepared by the Borrower on project experience; the
Borrower report in its entirety has been placed in the Bank's project files.
Bank staff work in preparing this PCR was based on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, reports of supervision missions, Borrower
progress reports and materials in the Bank's files relating to this project.
Following standard procedures, the Bank sent its draft PCR to the
Bcrrower  for  comment.    The Borrower  provided  comments  (which have been
incorporated as appropriate) and expressed its satisfaction with the draft
report.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACIIER TRAINTNG PROJECT (LOAN 2101-IND)
EVA.LUATI N gULMMARY
Objectives
Loan 2101-IND was the Bank's second investment for teacher education in
Indonesia. The first investment (Ln. 1433-IND) financed the upgrading of primary
and secondary teachers and established Learning Resource Centers in 54 primary and
15 secondary teacher training colleges. The second project was, building on the
outcome of the first project, designed to improve the coverage and equity of the
teacher training system. The objective of the project was to support the GOI's
long-range plans to improve the quality and increase the capacity of the primary
and secondary general education systems through: (a) improving the quality of
primary and secondary teacher education; (b) achieving a balance between demand and
supply of primary and secondary teachers; (c) improving the quality and quantity of
special education; (d) raising the quality of preservice and inservice teacher
training; and (e) improving and expanding the training of educational
administrators (para. 3.1).
Implementation
Start-up difficulties, as reflected by the low disbursement rate (7% of
the total loan) during the first three years, delayed the completion of the project
by two years. The factors responsible for the delay were primarily changes in GOI
regulations and procedures, management problems and budgetary constraints. Some
examples are: the decentralization of development budget and civil works activities
without enacting necessary communication mechanisms during the initial years of
project implementation; while decentralizing the budget, GOI regulations col,Linued
to require central authority approval for equipment procurement; the lack of
sufficient full time project implementation staff and their frequent turnover; and
protracted negotiations of a technical assistance contract. Insufficient
counterpart funding made it impossible for project staff to visit widely dispersed
project sites in 27 provinces. To facilitate monitoring and supervision, the loan
agreement was amended to include a new category, "project management", financed
100% by the loan. The implementation delay, however, was not excessive relative to
that of other projects in the education sector in the 1980's (paras. 5.1-5.8).
The level of institutional strengthening achieved was higher than that
envisaged at appraisal due to a reallocation of funds from consultancies to
fellowships and teaching material development and the declining value of the Rupiah
against the US dollar, which enabled the project to undertake several follow-up
quality improvement activities. However, a lack of coordination among training
programs and activities due to the absence of the planned Project Coordinating
Committee and the Coordinating Secretariat limited the effectiveness of the project
accomplishments of the subsector (para. 6.9).
Results
Although qualitative improvements take longer than the project period to
manifest themselves, the project objectives of improving the quality of physical
facilities and developing a stronger cadre of teacher educators and managers in the
primary and secondary teacher training institutions have largely been accomplished.



- iv -
Three national and two regional training centers have been strengthened, and the
infrastructure to produce a cadre of special education teachers and a center for
educational administration have been established. The quantitative achievements in
terms of staff development and of teaching material development exceeded the
appraisal estimates: about 800 persons completed overseas training and over 5,000
benefitted from in-country training, and over 600 materials on teaching/pedagogy in
Bahasa Indcnesia were developed (which is especially important since fewer than 100
national pedagogical books existed previously). These achievements are expected to
have a positive impact on the quality of teaching. Although the project did not
achieve a balance between supply and demand of primary teachers, it did act as a
catalyst to bring about the recent policy changes in teacher education, which were
enacted to implement the new nine-year basic education policy. The policy changes
led to the consolidation of teacher training activities under one authority and
ongoing national studies focusing on the primary teacher supply issues. As a
result of (a) a policy change to upgrade primary teacher training to the post
secondary level and (b) an unexpected surplus of primary teachers, the Government
decided to convert 31 of the 59 project primary teacher training institutions
into senior secondary schools (paras. 6.1-6.9 and 8.2).
Sustainability
Significant efforts were undertaken to integrate the quality improvement
activities more fully into the MOEC's ongoing activities, thereby facilitating
their sustainability although the sustainability will be affected by refunctiona-
lization of 31 primary teacher training institutions as senior secondary schools.
Seminars and meetings with the key staff of the institutions and MOEC officials
were held to ensure their commitment. Increased budget allocations for O&M in the
recent past have helped alleviate the systemic problem of shortage of recurrent
funds. With respect to the Center for Educational Administration, if the budget
allocation remains inadequate, its role should be redefined towards a self-
financing and more responsive participatory management approach. In view of the
ongoing reorganization and analysis of the teacher education system, with Bank
participation, it is expected that the dialogue between the GOI and the Bank will
be maintained, ensuring the sustainability of the project achievements
(paras. 8.1-8.3).
Findings and Lessons
The major lessons learned for future projects are: (a) the need to
develop, during project preparation, clear understanding and agreement on the
essential steps and criteria that will be used for the review and implementation of
policies as well as management arrangements; (b) the need for inclusion of a
mechanism for monitoring overseas fellowship programs; (c) the need to institu-
tionalize a coordinating body on teacher education to maintain policy dialogue
among the relevant GOI agencies to ensure effective teacner ^ducation programs; (d)
the need to identify, at appraisal, resource requirements to ensure sustainability
of project investments; (e) the need for full-time key project management staff
with continuity for successful implementation; (f) the need for Bank supervision to
focus more on policy aspects of the project; (g) the need to review GOI procurement
procedures and practices, for both goods and services, to eliminate duplication of
reviews and shorten processing time; and (h) the need to increase English
proficiency of teaching staff to enhance teacher trainer exposure to available
international knowledge and increase the utilization of imported library and
reference books (para. 7.1).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2101-IND)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity
Project Name            Second Teacher Training Project
Loan No.                2101-IND
RVP Unit                AS5PH, Asia Region
Country                 Indonesia
Sector                  Education
Subsector               Teacher Training
2.   Background
2.1      The rapid GDP growth experienced by Indonesia in the 1970s put severe
strains on the country's limited skilled manpower which in turn had emerged as a
critical constraint to further growth. While GOI achieved impressive progress
during the 1970s by increasing the primary enrollment rate to 94% and expanding
secondary enrollment from less than two million to nearly three million,
Indonesia's secondary and higher education systems remained inadequate for its
development needs. In spite of the rapid expansion of primary enrollment, the
secondary enrollment ratio of 21% of the relevant age cohort remained fairly
constant throughout the 1970s and higher education enrollment totalled only 2% of
the age cohort 20-24, compared with 4% for other low income countries.
2.2      The rapid expansion in primary enrollment in the 1970s created
difficulties in maintaining qualified/trained teacher supplies in pace with the
enrollment strides. The GOI recognized that provision of adequate physical
facilities would go only part of the way toward qualitative improvement and
focussed its attention on improved teacher training, textbooks and instructional
materials. Thus, the Government determined to focus on qualitative improvements,
especially of teacher upgrading and textbooks, in support of a more equitable
education system and to alleviate manpower constraints.
2.3      At the time of appraisal, the formal system of education consisted of
six years of primary school, three years each of lower and upper secondary and
two to six years of post-secondary education. A parallel system of private
schools also existed at all types of schools and levels, especially at the senior
secondary level. Responsibility for management of teacher education was divided
between two directorates general. Preservice training of primary school teachers
was conducted at primary teacher training institutions (three-year upper
secondary level, SPGs/SGOs) under the Directorate General for Primary and
Secondary Education (DGPSE) and preservice training of secondary teachers at two
types of institutions under the Directorate General for Higher Education (DGHE):
secondary teacher training colleges (two to four-year post-secondary level,
IKIPs) and education faculty of universities (FKIPs). Management of inservice
training for both primary and secondary teachers was the responsibility of DGPSE.



2.4      The main t-eacher training issues identified at the time of appraisal
(1981) were: (a) an imbalance between supply and demand for teachers and poor
internal efficiency of preservice teacher training; (b) the low quantity and
quality of trairing for special education; (c) an inadequate system of inservice
training; and (d) a lack of systematic training of administrators. Some of the
problems were related to thle structure of teacher training.  For example,
although the best resources for teacher training were located at the 10 IKIPs and
20 FKiPs under DGHIE, these IKIPs/FKIPs were separate in organizational structure
from SPCs under DGPSE thus making it difficult for SPG teachers to take advantage
of these resources; andcl the inservice training centers were located near
IKIPs/FKIPs where the best resources' were available and were expected to receive
assistance from college staff, but a direct line relationship was precluded by
organizationa' structure.
2.5      Recognizing the issues, GOI, with Bank assistance under the Third
Education and First Teacher lraining Projects (Cl. 387-IND and Ln. 1433-IND) and
supported under the locally funded 7ducation Diploma Development Project in DGHE,
had taken initial steps toward an improved structure--creating eight teacher
training catchment areas each with a leading institution. Simultaneously, GOI
was contemplating two important policy changes which would affect teacher
education: these were an extension of basic education to eight y3ars and raising
preservice primarv teacher training requirements from the senior secondary school
level to a two-year post-secundary iEv;l.
2.6      The First Teacher Training Project (Ln. 1433-IND) was approved in 1977
and completed in 1984, generally achieving the project objectives of improving
teacher training at both primary and secondary teacher training levels by: (a)
upgrading about 7,000 teachers; (b) providing specialized Learning Resource
Centers in 54 primary and 15 secondary teacher training colleges; and (c)
developing teacher training materials. The project's aim was to change the
teacher-centered approach to student-centered instruction with greater student
involvement in the learning process, and to introduce new teaching methodology.
However, the Learning Resource Centers were underutilized because of insufficient
understanding and knowledge of the staff about the Centers. The project was
managed successfully by one implementation unit placed under the Directorate of
Teacher Training, DGPSE. Lessons learned /1 were: (a) short-term overseas
training can be cost-effective only if well organized; (b) the need for adequate
lnguage training for prospective fellows; (c) staff of the Learning Resource
Centers should be provided with suitable training; and (d) continuity of Bank
staff during project implementation was necessary to improve disbursements and
physical progress. Results obtained during the first three years of the First
Project led to a GOI request for further assistance to oover the teacher training
system more fully. Sectoral developments and issues in the teacher education
subsector are elaborated in Annex 1.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
3.1      The objective of the project was to support the GOI's long-range plans
to improve the quality and increase the capacity of the primary and secondary
general education systems. More specifically, the project aimed to assist GOI
LI    World Bank, OED, PPAR, Indonesia: Fifth Education Project (Loan
1433-IND), June 1986.



- 3 -
in: (a) improving the quality of primary and secondary teacher education; (b)
achieving a balance between demand and supply of primary and secondary teachers;
(c) improvi.ng the quality and quantity of special education; (d) raising the
quality of preservice and inservice teaclher train. -; and (e) improvinig andi
expanding the training of educational adiniilstr
3.2      The project components were:  (a) prejservice of primary teacliers:
improvement of 60 SPGs and 10 SGOs through replacemert., renovation and/or
additional facilities, provision of furniture, equipment and traterials,
specialist services and a program for staff development.  For equity reasons,
about 50 of the 60 SPGs were to be located in provinces where the supply of new
teachers fell short of demand; (b) preservice traininy of e.c ondary teachers:
improvement and expansion of 11 IKIPs/FhKPs through provision of expanded and
improved physical facilities including library facilities, furniture and
equipment; strengthening of staff development program; and specialist services
for teacher training, curriculum review, material development, college
management, administration and plannirg; anid studies to overcome structural and
managerial constraints to teacher education; (c) special education: improvement
and expansion of four sperial education teacher training colleges (SGPLBs) and
provision of two new ones through construction, provision of furniture,
equipment, a program for staff development and specialist services; (d) inservice
training for primary and secondary teachers (i) improvement of three existing
national subject matter centers (PPPGs) and establishment of two new regional
inservice training centers (BPGs) including construction, furnishing and
equipping of facilities; (ii) provision of staff training and technical
assistance, and preparation of a plan for the implementation of a national
integrated system of inservice training; (e) training in educational
administration: improvement and expansion of a training unit for educational
administration including construction, furniture, equipment, provision of
specialist services and a program for staff development; and (f) project
evaluation and development of future projects: establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system to monitor project implementation and to evaluate the impact of
the project.
4.       Project Design and Organization
4.1      The project w~- the second investment in the teacher training subsector
and, building on the outcome of the first three years of the First Teacher
Training Project (Ln. 1433-IND), designed to improve the coverage and equity of
the teacher training system. However, the project had a much broader scope
(including 27 provinces) and complexity than the first proje-t.
4.2      Iroject design suffered from: the assumption that the impending teacher
education policies could be assessed and resolved during project implementation;
the lack of direct Bank involvement in primary and general secondary education
thus limiting the Bank knowledge and understanding of teacher deployment
practices in Indonesia; and limited sector work (Annex 1, paras. 7 and 8). For
example, during project preparation, the problem of surplus primary teacher
training institutions as well as measures to rectify the situation were discussed
with GOI. The recommended measures were to change the surplus 59 SPGs into other
types of schools, and to establish procedures for identification through
accreditation of below standard and/or surplus private SPGs and prepare plans for
closure over the five years of the project. But, details for the implementation
of the above measures were not prepared at appraisal. Consequently, such



- 4 -
actions, initiated by the MOEC staff present during appraisal, lapsed when senior
officials were changed, thus delaying the anticipated GOI action, which finally
occurred in 1989/90, following national reviews largely influenced by the
project. In the meantime, the number of private SPGs increased rather than
decreased. These events, all in all, contributed to the surplus of primary
teachers. Also, the project was designed to take advantage of the regional
teacher training center scheme, which was established by the MOEC in 1980 for
integrating teacher training but was terminated later.
4.3      Taking into account the need for cohesion and coordination of teacher
training programs and activities involving several agencies, the project was
designed to be coordinated by a high-level Steering Council and a working-level
Coordinating Committee assisted by a Project Coordinating Secretariat, and
day-to-day management by two project units: one (Element A) in DGPSE, responsible
for primary teacher training, special education and training in educational
administration; and the other (Element B) in DGHE, responsible for secondary
teacher training. A third unit (Element C) was added with Bank concurrence in
the second year of project implementation, under the Secretariat General of MOEC,
to manage the educational administration training component. This structure was
parallel to the MOEC structure but quite different from the structure of the then
ongoing first project (para. 2.6).
4.4      Although the Steering Council, Coordinating Commitcee and Secretariat
were established, they did not assume the planned responsibility, which resulted
in the policy aspects and coordination of teacher education not being implemented
as planned. Policy implementation suffered firstly from major changes in
personnel in MOEC at the beginning of the project. These changes appear to have
resulted in reservations and disagreements on the management structure and
concept of the project among the new members. Secondly, the Bank did not make
persistent efforts to pursue this matter. Consequently, the project was
virtually managed by the three PIUs from their narrow institutional perspective
with coordination occurring only at the PIU level. This resulted in mismatch of
inputs and programs due to refunctionalization /2 of some of the project SPGs
as senior secondary schools (para. 8.2). Toward the end of the project, however,
the coordinating forum of teacher education was revitalized to tackle the
emerging complex issues in teacher education (Annex 1, para. 12). In retrospect,
the project impact on policy aspects of teacher education would have been greater
if proper coordination of various programs and activities on teacher education
involving a number of agencies had been carried out.
5.       Project Implementation
5.1      The project encountered difficulties in start-up but in spite of the
various constraints discussed below (paras. 5.4-5.8), was completed in June 1990
with two one-year extensions of the original Closing Date of June 1988. The
start-up difficulties are reflected in the low disbursement rate--7% of the total
loan or 32% of the appraisal estimate by the third year of project implementation
(Part III, Table 3). The extensions of the Closing Date have permitted the
project to undertake many of the quality improvement activities mentioned below
/2    The term "refunctionalization" as used in this report refers to the
change in function of a school(s) from teacher education to secondary
education in accordance with the GOI decision.



-5-
and to allow them to be more fully integrated into the MOEC's ongoing activities,
thus facilitating their sustainability.
5.2      The implementation delays were not, however, excessive compared with the
experience of other projects in the education sector in the 1980s. It was, in
fact, during that period (1983-85) that project implementation of almost all
education projects (particularly, disbursements) deteriorated to a level that
warranted high level intervention from both the GOl and the Bank, and during
which severe budgetary cutbacks took place due to the sharp fall in oil prices.
Under these circumstances, both the GOI and the Bank made major efforts to
improve physical progress and to increase implementation capacity, which led the
GOI to establish project monitoring mechanisms in BAPPENAS, DGHE and DGPSE and
helped strengthen dialogue between the GOI and the Bank in the sector. The
efforts included, inter alia, appointment of full-time project managers,
providing additional resources for project implementation and staff training,
streamlining cumbersome procedures and guidelines, and financing project
management and supervision from Bank loans. Subsequently, implementation of
education projects improved significantly.
5.3      In responding to the budgetary constraints and to facilitate project
implementation, the Loan Agreement was amended to include a new category "project
management" financed 100% by the Loan and to finance furniture from the Loan in
1986 as well as to increase the percentage of Loan financing for civil works from
40% to 55% in 1984 and from 55% to 80% in 1987.
5.4      The factors responsible for the delay of project implementation were
primarily changes in GOI regulations and procedures, management problems and
budgetary constraints, which were generic across the sector (para. 5.2). The
major issues were: (a) procedural changes in budget and procurement (due to
decentralization); (b) lack of communication and budgetary mechanisms between
central and provincial governments; (c) lack of sufficient full-time project
management staff and their frequent turnover; (d) insufficient GOI financing; and
(e) protracted negotiations on a consultancy contract for management of technical
assistance.
5.5      The decentralization policy, which took effect in the second year of
project implementation, transferred the construction responsibility to provinces
and restricted construction contracts to regional contractors, who often have
limited experience. The decentralization required clearer communication channels
between central and local governments, which were lacking. It took almost two
years to establish proper communication channels and reporting mechanisms between
the central and local governments.  Also, decentralization of development budget
(DIP) in 1985 made it necessary to enter contracts on a yearly basis. This meant
that in some cases, as many as four contracts had to be entered into for
construction of one institution, often with different contractors, which made it
difficult to ensure quality control, and often caused unnecessary adjustments and
serious delays in civil works (Part III, Table 4). Moreover, the quality of
civil works varied from institution to institution but was not always as high as
desired. Subsequently, the procedures were modified to allow multi-year contracts
for civil works. The decentralized budget procedures made -t difficult for
Elements A and B to carry out equipment and book procurement exercises, which
were centrally handled.



- 6 -
5.6      The government's procurement procedures were simplified in 1988 by
eliminating review and approval by the State Secretariat (SEKNEG) of award
recommendations for equipment. However, contrary to expectation, the Office of
Secretariat General of MOEC assumed a role similar to that of SEKNEG and not only
reviewed the award recommendations but re-evaluated the bids, taking an
unacceptably long time (from six months to one year) which were more than twice
the length of time taken by the SEKNEG. The issue was, on many occasions,
brought to the attention of the responsible officials of the MOEC by supervision
missions, without much success. MOEC would need to review and improve the
current procurement practices.
5.7      Technical assistance (fellowships and specialist services) was designed
originally to be managed by external agency(ies), and procurement of the services
was at an advanced stage in early 1983. However, after long deliberations among
the parties involved (SEKNEG/MOEC/BAPPENAS), the GOI agreed with the Bank that
the overseas fellowship program would be self-managed (MOEC) with the assistance
of specialists and specialist services by an external agency. A Technical
Assistance Management Unit (TAMU) was established in May 1984 for this purpose.
After protracted renegotiations with the selected agency (a USA university), the
contract was finally signed in September 1984, two years behind the original
plan. Various problems were encountered initially, largely because of incomplete
planning, vague articulation of tasks, the lack of readiness of the institutions
to fully collaborate in ensuing joint efforts, as well as the complex
organizational structure of the project. In order to overcome these problems,
special efforts were made during the Bank supervision missions to clarify the
ambiguity and to reach clear understanding among consultants and project staff of
the consultants' tasks and objectives. Nearly 80 long- and short-term
specialists for a total of 678 staff-months were used, compared with 856 staff-
months planned at appraisal, for a variety of fields of teacher training,
material development and project management and implementation (Part III, Table
10). The reduction of the services was possible due largely to the fact that
MOEC assigned upgraded and better qualified trainers to work with the specialists
as counterparts, which facilitated the specialists' assignments. Corresponding
savings were used for staff and material development and support for project
management and supervision. In spite of the difficulties and problems at the
earlier stages, the fellowship and specialist services were effectively
coordinated jointly by TAMU and the external agency and completed successfully,
resulting in several substantive follow-up activities (paras. 6.7 and 6.9).
5.8      Project management.  One of the major causes of the slow start was the
lack of full-time staff assigned to the implementation of the project. Only
Element B, /3 whose implementation was timely, was properly staffed. It was
not until 1985, following repeated Bank emphasis, that Element A was given some
full-time consultant staff, after which project activities began in earnest.
Element C, which was never adequately staffed, had problems throughout project
implementation. It was only in 1987 that two full-time consultants were assigned
to Element C. A lack of adequate and qualified staff caused major delays in
project implementation in Elements A and C. MOEC's policy of rotating key staff
every two to three years, and project implementation staff yearly, seriously
hampered project implementation. Also, the management structure with three
/3    Implementation units were referred to as Element in this project.



-7-
separate units for implementation of one project necessitated excess efforts for
coordination among themselves.
5.9      The monitoring and evaluation component suffered from the fact that the
Project Coordinating Secretariat did not evaluate the overall project impact in
relation to its long-term `bjectives for the subsector (para. 4.4). Instead, the
project programs and activities were monitored and progress reports prepared, by
each project unit for its own activities. An evaluation of the project impact
was carried out by an external agency but was limited by the availability of
statistical data. Also, an extensive assessment of specialist services has been
undertaken by the Specialist Coordinator for the Indonesia/SUNTY Technical
Assistance Program, and the report prepared discusses in detail the problems
encountered and how the problems were resolved. The findings and recommendations
derived from the assessment will be valuable in management of future technical
assistance programs in Indonesia. Furthermore, a separate analysis of the
problems and utilization of the post-study re-entry of the fellowship returnees
has been carried out by TAMIU.
5.10     Studies.  Of the four main original studies under the project, three
(special education, inservice training and training in education administration)
were completed (Part III, Table 12). MOEC follow-up to the studies are as
follows: (i) the conclusions of the study on special education were used as the
bases of formulating the national strategy and led GOI to establish special
education programs in about 200 schools; (ii) the inservice training study led to
three methods--refresher/renewal, upgrading, and qualifying courses identified
for upgrading the unqualified and underqualified teachers. Experimentation with
these methods of instruction is being tried and expected to be used in the
national and regional training centers; and (iii) the findings and
recommendations of the study on training in education administration were used in
drawing up the role and training program of the Center for Educational
Administration. Tracer studies were also completed, consisting of two parts: the
first dealing with the job entry experiences of the S1 program graduates and the
second with the reentry and utilization of the overseas fellowship returnees.
The first study showed the feasibility of tracing a large number of preservice
training program graduates (68% of five IKIPs graduates in a three-year period)
entering employment. The second looked at how overseas training could be made a
more integral part of institutional development. The conclusions and
recommendations of the studies, if applied, could have an important training
policy impact. With respect to a study on teacher education originally planned,
since no consensus on the terms of reference could be reached among the GOI
agencies involved, it was eventually agreed that this study would be undertaken
under the Higher Education Development Project (Ln. 2944-IND), which study is
currently underway. In retrospect, the MOEC would have benefitted if this study
had been carried out earlier.
5.11     Proiect costs changed substantially during implementation due to the
devaluations of the Rupiah currency--from Rp. 625/US dollar at appraisal in 1981
to Rp. 1,858/US dollar in the last year of disbursement in 1990. The total
project cost, as currently estimated, is US$120.7 million compared with an
appraisal estimate of US$150.0 million. The total amount disbursed from the Bank
loan is $79.1 million (after cancellation of US$0.4 million /4 in December 1985
/4    Due to misprocurement of physics equipment.



- 8 -
and US$0.5 million in November 1990). The actual GOI financing of US$41.6
million is significantly less than the US$70.0 million estimated at appraisal
(Part III, Tables 5, 6 and Annex 2). The declining value of the Rupiah against
the US dollar enabled several follow-up initiatives to be undertaken--such as
institutional self-evaluation and peer validation programs for both primary and
secondary teachers, and development and production of teaching materials prepared
by the fellowship returnees--all of which have made substantive contributions to
the quality of training and to institution building.
6.       Project Results
6.1      Since qualitative improvements are nct only less visible but also take
longer than the project period to manifest themselves, the total project impact
cannot be assessed at this time. However, physical and quantitative achievements
were substantial (Part III, Tables 7-11 and Annexes 3 and 4) and early
indications of the impact on pedagogical/qualitative improvements in training are
positive. A report on the evaluation of the implementation of the project L5
states that given the fact that the project institutions have reviewed their
management and updated instructional documentation and there has generally been a
high utilization of physical and material inputs, it could safely be assumed that
there have been and will continue to be important improvements in the training
quality of primary and secondary school teachers. Also, the analysis of the
reentry and utilization of overseas training program returnees concluded that the
overseas training has had a positive impact on the returnees, their home
institutions and the academic communities (Part III, Table 8). It must be kept
in mind, however, that because of government policy changes in teacher education
/6 and generally weak TA management capability, the benefits of this project to
primary teacher training will be less than those to secondary teacher training.
Although the project did not achieve the balance of primary teacher demand and
supply, it did act as a catalyst in bringing about the recent policy changes in
teacher education, which were enacted to implement the extended basic education
policy. The policy changes led to the consolidation of teacher training
activities under one authority and ongoing national studies focusing on the
primary teacher supply issues. Specific results are discussed below.
6.2      Staff development:  The project provided overseas fellowships for 815
fellows and in-country training for more than 5,000 staff to develop a stronger
cadre of teachers and managers in the primary and secondary and special education
teacher training institutions, national and regional inservice training centers,
and the center for educational administration to improve the teaching quality.
/     The Institute for Education and Community Development, The Evaluation of
the Implementation & Impact of the Second Teacher Training Project,
March 1989.
/6    The major changes were: (a) raising qualifications for primary teachers
from senior secondary years to post-secondary two-year (D2) program; (b)
shifting the responsibility for management of primary teacher education
from DGPSE to DGHE; and (c) retaining 123 public SPGs/SGOs for the new
D2 program and refunctionalizing the remaining 135, including 31 SPGs
supported under the project, as senior secondary schools (Annex 1, para.
10).



-9-
This exceeded the appraisal estimates by about 60% for overseas training and 280%
for in-country training (Part III, Tables 8 and 9).
6.3      The large overseas fellowship program (71 PhD, 250 MAs and 494 short-
term study) was successfully completed with only nine fellows failing to complete
the programs for various reasons (death, illness or failure) and six fellows
still studying. Predeparture language training, closer monitoring, and
counseling and guidance provided by the specialists during the study, appear to
have contributed to the high success rate. About 91% of the fellows (743 out of
815) returned to their respective home institutions; about four percent were
assigned to positions within MOEC relevant to their studies; and only about five
percent took employment outside MOEC, with specific assignments unknown (Part
III, Table 8). Overall, this is a very encouraging result, since benefit to the
sponsoring sector is one of the main concerns of both the GOI and the Bank
regarding overseas training. Refresher Programs (overseas short-courses for 235
fellows) which were developed specifically for experienced and qualified faculty
members resulted in developing and updating course text, instructors' manuals and
instructional materials. This was an innovative and important feature of the
program since fewer than 100 national pedagogical books existed previously. This
successful component has greatly increased the staff qualification levels of the
teacher training institutions. It is vital to ensure that the skills the
participants have built up are fully utilized, both in planning the future of
teacher education in Indonesia, and in enhancing its quality. The use of
findings and recommendations derived from the assessment of the returned fellows
undertaken under the project is an additional contribution to planning future
overseas fellowship program and enhancing its effectiveness.
6.4      Special education.  The national strategy for special education
emphasized t-ained staff as the key requirement for overall success, and
supported the development and expansion of special education teacher training
colleges (SGPLBs) as the principal means of ensuring a continuing supply of well
trained staff. Two new SGPLBs were completed and are in operation, and four
SGPLBs were expanded, with a total enrollment of 4,100 compared with the
appraisal estimate of 2,400. SGPLBs were also strengthened through overseas (six
PhD, 36 MAs and 21 short-term study) and in-country training for management and
teaching staff, improved curriculum and teaching materials, collaboration with
foreign agencies in several countries, as well as coordination of various
national councils on handicapped and other associations in the country. Overseas
masters programs on special education were specially designed, for instance,
involving two universities in two different countries, to maximize the benefits
of the program. This was an innovative activity being the first Bank support for
special education. The infrastructure to produce a cadre of special education
teachers has been established and the project made an important contribution to
the GOI's program.
6.5      Inservice training:  The facilities of three national subject matter
training centers (PPPGs for mathematics, language, and social studies and
Pancasila) were upgraded and two regional inservice training centers (BPG) were
constructed, with a total capacity of over 700. The PPPGs are important
resources for inservice teacher education, but are not staffed with appropriate
expertise and suffer from insufficient budgets. For example, the PPPG for
mathematics has only 15 subject matter specialists out of the total of 109 staff
with the remainder of 69 administrative and 25 support staff, which are not
sufficient to serve the nation as a subject matter center. The BPGs are less



- 10 -
developed and have not, thus far, made significant contributions. The roles of
PPPGs and BPGs and their interaction with the Curriculum Development Center,
teacher training institutions and teachers at the school level would need to be
reviewed to fit the new organization of teacher education. While more than 5,000
teaching, administrative and management staff in teacher training, including
those from the Resource Learning Centers, benefitted from inservice training
under the project (Part III, Table 9), the training activities were largely
undertaken by respective institutions without overall coordination, thus reducing
the effectiveness of training of the subsector. Integration and coordination of
inservice training remain an issue and depend on policy adjustments.
6.6      Educational materials development was undertaken by both Elements A and
B, includinig: updating of curricula for primary and secondary teacher training
and for inservice training; development of learning packages for primary teacher
training; and development of up-to-date pedagogical teaching materials for
secondary teacher training by fellowship returnees, specialist consultants and
counterpart staff. This component resulted in the production of over 600 such
materials (Part III, Table 11). It was revealed during implementation that
utilization of imported library and reference books was generally low,
particularly for primary teacher training institutions, largely because of the
lack of English proficiency of the teaching staff. Therefore, Element A
undertook development of instructional materials called 'Learning Packages' in
five subjects for primary teacher training, which was initiated under the first
project. After a series of try outs and revisions by a group of key teachers,
the packages were distributed to 269 teacher training institutions and 81
agencies concerned with teacher education, and introduced students to active
learning methods. Also, monthly newsletters were initiated to assist with the
transfer of new educational concepts. The development of teaching materials,
teachers' manuals and guides has been the largest input in teacher education
literature ever produced in Indonesia. This major input has led to the
development of peer review teams at the institutions, resulting in additional
books being written and printed through private publishers. The important
teacher training improvements achieved during this project should be reinforced
and not discarded during the ongoing integration of all preservice teacher
training activities.
6.7      Another important achievement was the graduate school development
support program, which consisted of three tasks: staff instruction, review and
development of programs, and initiation of a national degree program to upgrade
lecturers. This was done by assigning expatriate specialists to the institutions
(three specialists per graduate school). The counterpart scheme using both
national and international consultants has been successfully completed and has
led DGHE to develop similar upgrading schemes for its staff to improve the
instructional level at the IKIPs. The training was piloted in three IKIPs
successfully and materials made available to the other institutions. Such
training activities, including peer group reviews, institutional development,
operation of libraries (IKIPs), operation and use of resource centers (SPGs) and
subject discussions/seminars (teaching process), are believed to have enhanced
the teacher interaction with other teachers as well as with students and resulted
in improved instructional approaches, but require budgetary supports to be
sustained.
6.8      Training in Educational Administration:  Due largely to the lack of
full-time key management staff, and the delay in completion of the physical



- 11 -
facilities and in defining the role of the Center for Educational Administration
(PUSDIKLAT), this training suffered from insufficienTt budgetary allocations, and(
also, was not able to take fuller advantage of the overseas traininig pi-ogram
(Part III, Table 8).  Utilization of the Center for management training of MOEC
officials has been low, about 30% of the facilities and 50% of staff resources.
The low utilization is partly due to policy chaniges; namely, all itnservice
management training of MOEC officials which was originally planned to be carried
out by the Center, has been decentralized, and now trairning of local officials
will be given by respective provincial training centers. Utilization is
expected, however, to increase significantly when MOEC management training
programs currently being organized under the Secondarv Education 11 Project (Ln.
3158-IND), are in progress.  The role of the Center shou-ld be thoroughly reviewed
by MOEC, assisted by other concerned government authorities, to ensure effective
utilization of the Ceniter.
6.9      Institution Building:  The large number of teaching and management staff
whose qualifications were raised and whose knowledge and skills were upgraded
through overseas and in-country training, as well as improved and updated
facilities, materials and equipment, have made important contributions to
strengthening the institutional capacitv. Institutional self-study and peer
validation resulted in new institutional profiles and the definition of goals.
The analysis of the SPGs identified the services and strengths available in each
institution. In IKIPs, the emphasis was placed on self evaluation and planning,
and inclusion of peer review (a prerequisite for professional growth and quality
improvements). This has led the IKIP rectors to establish permanent peer review
groups. The support program for IKIP computers developed the computer capacity
for administrative and academic purposes within the nine IKIPs and one FKIP.
These achievements are expected to make a significant contribution in institution
building. Although each institution individually was strengthened, it is
nevertheless apparent that a lack of coordination among the many programs and
activities held down the increase in effectiveness of the subsector.
7.       Strengths and Weaknesses: Lessons Learned
7.1      Most of the lessons drawn from the project have been or are being
incorporated in subsequent education projects. The most salient ones are:
(a)  Project preparation and appraisal.  It is essential that the Bank and GOI
agencies involved (i.e., DGPSE, DGHE and provincial authorities, etc.)
reach clear understanding and agreement on the objectives and key project
concepts and on the essential steps and criteria that will be used for the
review and implementation of policies as well as management arrangements.
It is also important to set feasible objectives and establish measurable
monitoring indicators in project design.
(b)  Overseas training.  A large overseas fellowship program was successfully
completed. It is essential to include in future projects an appropriate
mechanism for selection, monitoring progress, re-entry and utilization of
fellowship participants, in order to maximize the benefits of overseas
training. It is also important for MOEC to establish and institutionalize
procedures for an overall staff development program to achieve an ultimate
goal of institution building.



- 12 -
(c)  Coordination of training programs.  A major weakness of the project was
the lack of coordination among the various MOEC units involved. Quality
improvement in training is not only a slow process but requires cohesion
and coordination of related programs and ongoing resource support as well
as concerted efforts by all involved. It is therefore essential for GOI
to institutionalize a coordinating body on teacher education to maintain
continuous policy dialogue among the relevant GOI agencies to ensure
effective teacher education programs. In view of its new integrated
management policy, MOEC needs to fully assess its present institutional
and administrative structures which separate units, both physically and
administratively, working on similar activities, i.e. preservice and
inservice teacher training and curriculunm development.
(d) Resource requirements. A study should be carried to determine required
resources (financial, pedagogical and human resources) and how these would
be funded to sustain the qualitative improvements achieved under the
project. For future projects, the resource requirements for O&M following
completion of project investments should be identified at project
appraisal.
(e) Project management. Another important lesson is that inadequate staffing
of project management units leads to delays and inefficiency, and prevents
the country from obtaining maximum and timely benefits from its
investments. Full time project management is required for effective
project implementation and successful completion. It is essential for
MOEC to review its policy of appointment of project directors and staff
(rotation policy of every 2-3 years) to improve efficiency of future
projects. Also, the experienced staff should be retained rather than
having new staff for every operation, since it takes one to two years for
new staff to familiarize themselves with the project. The establishment
of TAMU was a promising step in building a domestic project management
capability. It will be beneficial for MOEC to take full advantage of
acquired experience for effective implementation of future projects.
(f) Bank supervision. Bank supervision concentrated on physical and quality
aspects of the project in response to the start-up delay. Bank
supervision for policy oriented projects should be given higher
supervision coefficients so that its focus can be better balanced among
physical, qualitative and policy aspects of the project. To ensure
effective dialogue, it is also important to maintain staff continuity at
least until the project gets off the ground and implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
(g)  Procurement procedures for equipment.  MOEC should review the current
procurement practices and shorten the processing time by eliminating
duplication of reviews and reorganizing procurement committees with right
authority. MOEC should prepare a document clearly outlining these steps
for the benefit of its staff and of donor agencies.
(h) Consultant services. The MOEC's multiple steps and lengthy review
process for the employment of consultants, particularly international,
need to be streamlined and clear steps outlined for everyone's benefit.
It is necessary to use proper mix of national and international
consultants to benefit from internal knowledge while expanding national



- 13 -
knowledge through fully experienced international consultants. MOEC needs
to review the policy of having key development and supervision work done
by national consultants--such work should be done by properly compensated
staff for sustainability reasons.
(i) Library and reference books. Due to the unavailability of national
teacher training materials in Indonesia, every project institution was
provided with a large supply of English reference and library books. But,
its utilization has generally been low, particularly at SPGs/SGOs, largely
due to the lack of English proficiency of the teaching staff. Measures
should be employed in future projects to increase English proficiency of
teaching staff to enhance teacher trainers' exposure to available
international knowledge and increase its utilization.
7.2      The project achievements, in particular, the teacher training quality
improvements should be reinforced during the ongoing reorganization of teacher
education and the outputs should be fully utilized to enhance the quality of the
new teacher training system in Indonesia. Some areas which require special
attention in future projects are re-emphasized in Annex 5.
8.       Project Sustainability
8.1      During implementation, significant efforts were undertaken to integrate
the quality improvement activities more fully into the MOEC's ongoing activities,
thereby facilitating their sustainability: IKIP Bandung has assumed the software
maintenance and development responsibility for the IKIP computer program;
permanent peer review groups have been established to sustain the achievements
derived from the institutional self-study and peer validation programs and the
upgrading schemes for the graduate school development support program. Also,
seminars and meetings with the key staff of the institutions and MOEC officials
were held to ensure their commitment, as well as technical training on operations
and maintenance. Increased budget allocations for O&M since 1987/88 have helped
alleviate the systemic problem of shortage of recurrent funds. In view of the
ongoing reorganization and analysis of the teacher education system, with Bank
participation, it is expected that the dialogue between the GOI and the Bank will
be maintained, ensuring the sustainability of the project achievements.
8.2      As a result of the recent policy changes, 31 of the 59 SPGs supported
under the project were refunctionalized as senior secondary schools (Annex 1,
para. 10 and Annex 3). An explicit aim of the project was the development of
primary teacher training institutions in the more sparsely settled areas where
the supply of new primary school teachers fell short of demand. Therefore, only
eight of the 59 project SPGs were in provincial capitals, as compared with 51 in
smaller cities and towns. All the eight project-assisted SPGs located in
provincial capitals have been retained as teacher training institutions for the
new D2 program; whereas 31 of the 51 located in the smaller cities and towns have
been refunctionalized as secondary schools. The major issues currently facing
primary teacher training are, inter alia, teacher distribution and teacher supply
and needs (Annex 1, para. 9), and these shifts appear to make it more difficult
for the Government to achieve the balance between demand and supply of primary
teachers in the more sparsely settled and isolated areas. It is therefore
recommended that GOI revisit this issue upon completion of the primary teacher
education study which is currently underway. It is also recommended that the
equipment and materials (such as micro teaching and audio visual equipment and



- 14 -
library and reference books and materials on pedagogy which are of little use for
general secondary schools) supplied to the SPGs which became senior secondary
schools be transferred to the institutions retained for the new D2 program for
primary teacher training to maximize their utilization.
8.3      It has been recognized that the budgetary allocation to PUSDIKLAT has
been inadequate. If the budget is not increased sufficiently to run the courses,
the role of PUSDIKLAT should be redefined to fit management patterns like those
of similar management institutes in Thailand and Malaysia /7. The role of the
Center should be thoroughly reviewed by the MOEC, assisted by other concerned
government authorities, so that the large investment (over US$6.0 million) can be
used effectively and give the country a high return for its investment.
9.       Bank Performance
9.1      The project, designed as a continuation of ongoing teacher training
activities, focused on qualitative aspects of the teacher training programs
(teacher upgrading, course reviews, supply of additional materials), on the
equitability of the response to general teacner training needs, and initiated the
Bank's first input in special education. Initial estimates were that all the
policy aspects of the project could, as agreed, be implemented. However, in
retrospect, these estimates proved unrealistic. While the Bank staff contributed
to the project achievements through supportive working relationships and
professional advice, both administrative and sectoral constraints limited the
policy aspects and coordination of teacher training programs (para. 4.4). More
staff continuity and intensive supervision /8 at the beginning of project
implementation might have influenced MOEC to more actively support the
Coordinating Committee and the Secretariat leading to teacher training
coordination. Because of the initial implementation delays (para. 5.1), the
supervision missions concentrated on the physical and qualitative aspects of
programs and activities. The missions' detailed aide-memoirs were effective
instruments for accelerating actions, but placed tremendous pressures on the
staff because of the limited t'me allocated for the tasks. Upon learning that
the 31 SPGs supported under the project were refunctionalized as senior secondary
schools, the Bank advised MOEC of its concern regarding the possible implications
(para. 8.2).
10       Borrower Performance
10.1     The lack of sufficient full time project implementation staff and their
frequent turnover, particularly for Elements A and C, have significantly
constrained project implementation. Project staff performed very well under
difficult circumstances in terms of completing the project, following up on major
issues raised, time spent on supervision despite inadequate staff and funds and
widely dispersed project sites, reporting, maintaining financial records, and
monitoring project implementation progress. TAMU with a strong leadership and
staff continuity, managed well the technical assistance component for the entire
/7     Partially on a commercial basis with recipients paying for a service.
/_8    Only one supervision mission took place in the third year of project
implementation, when the project was still encountering start-up
problems. Subsequently, supervision was intensified.



-   l)    -
project. A major weakness was the lack of support provided for the Project
Coordinating Committee and the Secretariat, which resulted in a lack of
systematic coordination of training programs and activities. Many of the
problems and difficulties encountered dul-ing the project as well as currently
facing teacher education might have been reduced if the Project Coordinating
Committee and the Secretariat had assumed their responsibility as planned and all
project units had been adequately staffed full-time and with continuity.
11       Proiect Relationship
11.1     The project relationships between the Bank and Borrower were good and
supportive with a high degree of professionalism on both sides. The PIUs
maintained satisfactory relationships with the respective project institutions
and good relationships among IKIPs have been developed.
12       Consulting Services
12.1     Civil works were executed by regional contractors, and architectural
services were provided by local firms.  Except for some unavoidable delays and a
few problems in some of mote remote schools, the work was performed
satisfactorily. In retrospect, if rnulti-year contracts had been allowed, the
delays in civil works would have been reduced and the problems associated with
having multiple contractors working on one school would have been avoided (para.
5.5).  Equipment suppliers performed generally well with the exception of a group
of local agents who have been reluctant to carry out repairs and maintenance.
The difficulty of equipment repair, especially in the remote locations, is a
cross-sectoral problem and one that requires more attention at the project
preparation stage.
13.      Project Documentation and Data
13.1     The SAR and the Loan Agreement were the main reference for the Bank and
Borrower during implementation. They were generally found adequate.



- 16 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Government supplied the Bank with a comprehensive Project Completion
Report in July 1990, prepared by a GOI team consisting of the three
Implementation Units, which addresses the project's achievements in detail
supported by extensive tables and data /1. Part II is the Executive Summary
prepared by the Borrower and included in its Completion Report.
1.       Description and Analysis
I.]      The Second Indonesia-IBRD Teacher Training Project (also known as the
Second Teacher Training Project) was a continuation and expansion of the First
Indonesia-IBRD Teacher Training Project or the First Teacher Training Project.
Therefore, its background and context as well as its objectives and
implementation strategies could be better understood if reference to certain
features of the First Teacher Training Project is made. Even though it addressed
the issue3 of quality improvement for both the primary and secondary teacher
training, and was therefore jointly sponsored by the Directorates General of
Primary and Secondary as well as Higher Education (DGPSE and DGHE) together with
the Office of Education1. and Cultural Research and Development (Balitbang
Dikbud), the First Teacher Training Project was managed by a unitary
implementation unit located at DGPSE insuring fairly smooth coordination in
approaches in addressing policy and substantive issues. Furthermore, at least
for secondary teachers, the coordination of policies and programs aimed at the
improvement of the teacher supply system (recruitment, preservice education,
appointment and placement, and inservice care), which are by organizational
structure under the jurisdiction of different agencies both within as well as
outside of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) consistent with the
principle of the division of labor governing ministerial structures, was greatly
enhanced by the central and regional coordination scheme providing for effective
dialogues among the producers, employers and administrators of teachers which was
established under the locally funded Education Diploma Program Development
Project located within DGHE.
1.2      Building upon the experiences and results gained in the First Teacher
Training Project, the Second Teacher Training Project was charged with a greatly
expanded set of objectives. As was stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, in
coordination with the (then) on-going First Teacher Training Project (Project V)
and with the (then) proposed Second Textbook Project (Project X) it was to
support the government's long-range plans to improve the quality and increase the
capacity of the primary and secondary general education systems. To this end, it
was to assist the government to: (a) improve the quality of primary and secondary
teacher education; (b) achieve a balance between demand and supply of primary and
secondary teachers; (c) improve the quality and quantity of special education;
(d) raise the quality of preservice and inservice training; and (e) improve and
expand the training of educational administrators. In other words, the stated
objectives refer to improvement efforts which fairly well cover the entire
teacher supply system and, obviously, their attainment required the concerted
efforts of all of those relevant agencies.
/1l    The Completion Report of GOI is available in project files.



- 17 -
1.3       To attain the objectives described in para. 1.2, assistance consisting
of construction of new and improvement of existing facilities, procurement of
educational equipment and books, staff development through domestic and overseas
training, and the services of expatriate consultants were envisaged. The overall
quantitative improvement goal was to increase the capacity of 93 institutions by
a total of 19,510 student seats affecting roughly one fourth of the number of
public teacher training institutions in Indonesia. The institutions slated to
receive the major inputs from the Second Teacher Training Project were: (a)
primary preservice teacher training institutions which consisted of 60 general
teacher training schools (SPGs)--another 60 had already benefitted from similar
inputs through the First Teacher Training Project--and 10 sports teacher training
schools (SGOs); (b) six special education teacher training schools (SGPLBs); (c)
inservice teacher training institutions which included three national teacher
education development centers (PPPGs) :.nd two regional teacher education centers
(BPGs); (d) 11 preservice secondary teacher training colleges (nine IKIPs and two
FKIPs); and (e) the unit for educational administration (UEA) which later became
the Center for Educational Personnel Training (Pusat Pendidikan dan Latihan,
Pusdiklat) located at the Secretariat General. To augment and guide the efforts
to improve the quality of teacher training and to identify more appropriate and
realistic dimensions of the quantitative concerns, an ambitious agenda of
research was also proposed. With two one-year extensions the project was
concluded on June 30, 1990.
1.4      In retrospect, significantly omitted in the SAR was the major
contribution of the Education Diploma Development Project indicated in para. 1.1
above. While the two World Bank supported teacher training projects dealt with
improvement of instrumental inputs, the fully locally funded diploma program
project provided substantial recurrent costs in the forms of fellowships, staff
salary supplement, and other operational costs as well as certain supports for
the Bureau of Personnel which substantially speeded up the process of appointment
and placement of its graduates, thus rounding up the necessary supports for most
of the important components of the teacher supply system. Therefore, two
important notes need to be brought up at this point. The first is that the
objectives implied much more than simply the provision of certain facilities and
services meeting certain pre-set specifications commonly stated in terms of
reference and contracts to be verified against formal written receipts and
endorsed statements within the confines of the Project. Secondly, because the
endeavors were expected to self-generate the desired institutional processes, the
activities should be launched from appropriate structural context--they should
solidly rest on individual structural authority policies which, at the same time,
were also viewed from the broader inter-agency coordinated policy framework.
1.5     However, unlike the First Teacher Training Project which was managed by a
unitary implementation unit, the Second Teacher Training Project was split into
two implementation units i.e. Element A dealing with primary teacher education
which was housed within DGPSE and Element B dealing with secondary teacher
education which was located within DGHE. A third and small portion was later
carved out from Element A and placed at the Pusdiklat of the Secretariat General,
called Element C. In order to maintain the desired policy coordination and
program synchronization which had been reasonably successfully attained through
the complementary efforts of the First Teacher Training Project and the Education
Diploma Program Development Project stated above, a Project Steering Council
consisting of relevant echelon I officials and a Project Coordinating Committee
consisting of relevant echelon II officials were proposed by the Staff Appraisal



- 18 -
Report, and later, mandated by the Loan Agreement.  A Project Coordlnating
Secretariat was to be estabilished in order to provide the necessary staff works
required for etfective and efficient coordinated decision making processes.
Furthermore, the two major components of the technical assistance activity i.e.
specialist services and overseas training were partially configured on the
assumption of the functioningK of the regional centers established under the said
coordinating forum.
1.6      Unfortunately, despite all of the optimism which had even infected the
authors of the SAR as wel] as the signatories of the Loan Agreement, the
coordiniating forum did icot materialize anid the regional center scheme ceased to
exist with thO  abolishment of the O)GIIE Education Diploma Program Development
Project.  The crucial outfit of the Project Coordinating Secretariat was
virtually never established.  Someone was appointed Executive Secretary, however,
wilth the absence of any semblance of coordinating activities requiring his
service, he decicted to resign withinl a short period of time.  For a number of
years, subsequent evtents seemed to have invariably suggested that through either
conscious acts or benign neglect, the policy coordination mechanism was
progressively eroded and it eventtually met a quiet death, leaving behind each of
the agencies viewing their tasks only strictly from their respective discrete
institutional perspectives.
1./      The government's decision to self-manage technical assistance for the
three Elements of the Project w,iich brought together the administration of
technical assistance activities through the Technical Assistance Management Unit
(TAMU) located within Element B did not rectify the fragmentation of project
activitis because the TAMU essentially provided logistical supports, not
substantive and policy coordination, of the technical assistance activities,
while the coordinating superstructure of the TAMU envisaged in its charter of
establishment which would have provided for such a coordination scheme never
became active. Responsibility for substantive planning as well as follow-up
activities within the technical assistance area fully rested within the
respective project implementation units. In other words, TAMU was also operating
in a structural vacuum.
1.8      Another precious opportunity which at the same time also represented a
most urgent need for policy coordination would have been the decision to
integrate elementary and secondary teacher training as a consequence of the
raising of the required formal qualification of elementary teachers to the D-II
level. Even though steps in that direction have been taken, including that which
culminated in the issuance of the MOEC decree No. 0461/U/1990 dated July 28, 1990
on the coordinating forum for the teacher supply system, their decisiveness as
well as their expeditiousness did not seem to adequately measure up to the
challenge of the immense tasks and therefore still left a lot to be desired. In
the last couple of years DGHE attempted to reactivate the regional centers by
providing funds for their activities, however, the absence of a central
coordinating forum has been markedly limiting their maximum potential
contribution to the functioning of the teacher supply system. Therefore, a lot
remains to be done in order for the teacher supply system to benefit from the
coordinating mechanism provided by the said ministerial decree.
1.9      The provision for physical. facility targets were basically met, e;en
though there were some problems of poor match between facilities and programs
because of certain policy decisions. For Element A, a number of institutions



- 19 -
which had received substantial inputs through both the first and second World
Bank supported teacher training projects were refunctionalized into other kinds
of secondary schools. For Element B the poor match resu]ted from program
cancellation and abortion due to budget cutbacks. Perhaps because of its limited
size and central location, the discharge of this category of project tasks at
Element C did not encounter such a problem. Additionally, another set of issues
needs to be brought up concerning the provision of physical facilities i.e. those
of utilization and operation and maintenance (O&M). While the introduction of
the O&M item in the budgetary scheme in the last couple of years should alleviate
most if not all of the severe O&M problems faced by institutions receiving
massive investment in educational equipment, the issue of utilization seems to be
elusive. In other words, effective means need to be devised so that the
instructors explicitly include the utilization of the various equipment and books
into their daily teaching-learning scenarios.
1.10     Despite the two-year delay in order to work out an acceptable scheme to
carry out the government's directive of technical assistance program
self-management, the execution of the drastically scaled down contract for the
procurement of specialist services managed to exceed its targets. The resources
allocated to provide 577 months of specialist services in 36 areas actually
provided 682 months in 42 areas, consisting of 574 months of expatriate and 108
months of domestic specialist services, including full-time senior project
management staff for Elements A and C. Also acquired but difficult to quantify
were the services of 14 non-IKIP senior academicians who participated in the
intensive program reviews conducted at the three graduate schools, thus
initiating an important and unprecedented dialogue between the IKIPs and the rest
of the academic community in the country. All these were accomplished as the
Project matured and the two parties to the contract focussed their attention more
on the substance of project goals than on the letter of the specialist services
terms of reference.
1.11     Consisting of short-term and long-term fellowships which included
tailor-made as well as "on-the-shelf" programs, the fellowships component also,
by and large, exceeded its initial targets (against 259, 207 and 31 participants
targeted, 282, 480 and 53 returnees made a total of 815 returnees successfully
completing their programs, for Elements A, B and C, respectively). Judicial
placement based on thorough familiarity with the resources and personal contacts
with key personnel of the major potential host institutions as well as
comprehensive in-program supports especially for the majority of participants who
experienced language and initial academic adjustment difficulties seemed to have
played a decisive role in the reasonably high degree of success of the programs.
U7nfortunately, as was already indicated in para. 1.9, the refunctionalization of
certain SPGs/SGOs and the cutbacks of certain regional Pusdiklat training
programs had hindered full utilization of a number of fellowships program
returnees. Earnest efforts have recently been launched to recruit the Element A
returnees to fill the needs for the newly established D-II level elementary
teacher training programs.
1.12     The technical assistance follow-up activity programs had brought about
two major groups of project outcomes i.e. in the forms of hard products and
institutional processes considered important for continued development.
Obviously, production of course text and materials fell into the first category;
overall senior SPG/SGO teachers at Element A produced 230 titles, Refresher
Program graduates of Element B authored 264 titles and overseas training program



- 20 -
returnees of Element C prepared 51 titles, all constituting significant
contributions to locally prepared materials. Finally, the report on the current
status of special education teacher training prepared by a mixed team of
expatriate specialists and two recent doctoral overseas training program
returnees for Element A and the repo) s on the first employment experience of Sl
program graduates and the re-entry and utilization of overseas training returnees
prepared by Element B are the intellectual products of the project.
1.13     For Element B, outcomes in the second category consisted of procedures
for the automation of academic administration which were now in place in the 10
participating secondary teacher training institutions for further systematic
improvement as well as that to accredit preservice training programs through
institutional self-study and peer validation which were successfully tested. Also
capitalizing upon the experiences gained through similar activities of the First
Teacher Training Project, Element A likewise undertook preservice program
peer-validated activities, however, limited resources had prevented them from
fully field testing the procedure. While the willingness as well as the ability
to hold dialogues in the various forms of peer review at both the individual (in
the process of materials development) and the institutional (during program
review and validation) levels at both the primary and secondary teacher training
institutions as well as through coordinative and consultative meetings in the
management of the various programmed activities constituted other lesser tangible
but equally important outcomes of the Project. Finally, the redefined goals and
missions of the IKIP graduate schools which at the same time reaffirmed their
niche within the academic community in the country were also to be included in
this last category of Project outcomes.
2.     Lessons Learned
2.1        A number of lessons were learned which could be productively brought
to bear in similar reform efforts in the future. As was indicated earlier,
viewed as discrete individual activities, despite some problems, many
accomplishments were attained. However, systemically, there have been many
reasons for grave concerns. Policy decisions made by certain central as well as
regional authorities which were perfectly appropriate when viewed from the
discrete institutional perspectives, had entailed serious adverse effects, e.g.
poor match between project inputs and program needs in terms of facilities as
well as trained personnel, which consequently jeopardized the required concerted
efforts to provide the education system with adequate manpower which is equitably
distributed throughout the country. ln other words, certain decisions and
actions which were perfectly falling within each of the respective agency's
rightful jurisdiction could have devastating domino effects because of failure to
appreciate the systemic nature of the teacher supply system.
2.2        Another lesson which was learned was that "knowledge-intensive"
endeavors such as the ones represented by this project require substantive
leadership. Equipped with the necessary knowledge base as well as the vision of
the desired future direction of the development of teacher training, it is
characterized by the sensitivity to recognize opportunities for development
initiatives as directives were promulgated and action programs were launched both
outside as well as inside the project spheres, and the capability to capitalize
upon those opportunities in order to be able to make the necessary "mid-course
corrections" toward the attainment of the overall reform goals. In other words,



- 21 -
project leadership should appropriately blend academic and administrative
authorities in the management of project activities.
2.3        Contextually, the said undertakings could only be successfully carried
out if they enjoyed national level commitment, housed in an appropriate
institutional set up, and carried out by individuals--from top decision makers to
"foot soldier" levels--who shared the same perception and were equipped with the
necessary knowledge and skills to meet the challenge of teacher education reform
required by the education system. In other words, a comprehensive approach
combining the "top-down" and "bottom-up" strategies which simultaneously
addressed the ideas, the authority structure and the resources, as well as the
key personnel of the various agencies involved in the complex set of endeavors is
required. It also means that, no matter how massive the size of the set of
inputs included in a single project, they could not bring about a nation-wide
reform alone. Therefore, continued systematic efforts were required to convince
and induce the relevant agencies to--whenever necessary--go out of their way to
play their complementary parts in order to strengthen the coordination mechanism
of the teacher supply system.
2.4        Due to its enormous size and complex nature as well as the fact of its
naving to deal with an extensive array of internal and external agencies, this
kind of project also require full-time commitment from their key and support
staff. Therefore, the staffing policy, which provides for alnually rotated,
part-time assignments of civil servants who are allowed to carry out project
tasks only after office hours, seriously hindered the project from its full
fruition. The difference that the provision of full time domestic senior
management consultants for Elements A and C had made in the smooth and effective
discharge of programmed tasks during the last years of the Project was an
unequivocal testimony on this matter.
2.5        As an experiment in technical assistance self-management, the
operation of the TAMU also offered valuable lessons, notably in substantive
direction and logistical supports. After national priorities were set at the
ministerial and higher levels, the desired direction of the development of the
substantive area of teacher training vis-a-vis that of education in general was
articulated and acted upon at the TAMU especially for Element B activities
because it was only within this project unit that substantive and administrative
authorities blended. Programmatic mid-course corrections in order to better
serve the overall reform goals were made possible. As regards logistical
supports, two kinds of services seemed to have made an important difference in
program successes. The first was the expeditiousness of the preparatory
processes from application documents to the departing of the participants, while
the second was--with the full cooperation of the host institution key staff--the
comprehensive in-program supports provided to the participants. Indeed, not
infrequently the TAMU leadership had to make themselves available for
international telephone calls well into the evenings in order to intervene for
the solution of personal as well as academic problems. In other words, academic
direction and accessibility seemed to be among the most important features that
should be present in any such endeavor. Therefore, efficient procedures of
administration of overseas training and specialist services could, and should, be
built into a permanent structural outfit at the directorate general if not
ministerial level, while substantive leadership should be established according
to the unique needs of particular areas of development initiatives.



- 22 -
2.6        With the integration of elementary pre-service teacher training into
DGHE, the need for the provision of massive inputs for the required reform in
order to meet the immense challenges faced by the education system would be even
more acute: nine-year basic education which should be made available to an
increasingly larger and larger number of pupils distributed throughout the vast
territory of the country, the anticipation of the society of the future, and the
survival of the nation in the industrial and information age. A word of caution
is in order. Appreciating the systemic nature of the teacher supply mechanism,
unless a viable coordinating forum is formally established so that it is not
susceptible to key official turnovers, the sad history of fragmented initiatives
with disastrous consequences would repeat itself. Professional educational
services required to develop intelligent citizenship would still be just topics
of discussions, not real benefits equitably enjoyed by the daughters and sons of
the nation.
2.7        Finally, quality instruction requires more than simply the provision
of physical facilities and the advance training of instructors. Beside
sufficient resources in the forms of facilities and knowledge and skills, it also
requires a vision of direction which would induce and guide the development of
rich teaching-learning scenarios indicated in para. 1.9 in order to convey the
necessary educational messages.  Referring to the idea of "Student-Active
Learning" developed through the First Teacher Training Project, the in-country
training programs launched by both Elements A and B had endeavored to deal with
the message, however, much more remains to be done. In short, the reform efforts
should strike a balance between the provision of physical facilities and the
inculcation of the knowledge base and skills as well as the "needs" to utilize
the said equipment and books. The improvement of the "vehicle" needs to be
securely linked to the nature of the "cargo" to be conveyed.



2 3
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Table 1: IDA Credit and IBRD Loans Relevant to the Project
Loan/Credit                                                   Year of
Title                          Purpose                       Approval  Status
Cr. 387-IND              To help improve primary and             1973    Completed
First Textbook Project  secondary education through                      in Dec.
provision of textbooks and                      1981
in-service teacher training
Ln. 1433-IND             To expand physical infra-               1977    Completed
First Teacher Training  structure for pre- and in-                       in June
Project                  service teacher training &                      1984
to develop teacher training
materials.
Ln. 2102-IND             To establish and develop a              1982    Completed
Second Textbook          permanent institution for                       in June
Project                  textbook development,                           1988
production and nation-wide
distribution, strengthen the
Curriculum Development Center,
and to print textbooks for
primary and secondary schools.
Ln. 2472-IND             To improve the quality of               1984    Completed
Secondary Education      general secondary education                     in Sept.
and Management           through in-service teacher                      1990
Training Project         training, provision of
science equipment, develop-
ment of a more effective
national school examination
system, and strengthen
management and planning skills
at senior levels in the
education sector.
Ln. 2940-IND             To improve accounting prac-             1988    On-going
Accountancy Dev.         tices in both the public and
Project                  private sectors, and the
quality of accounting edu-
cation and to prepare for
future demand for accountancy
manpower.
--  - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - -



- 94 _
Table 1: IDA Credit and IBRD Loans Relevant to the Project (continued)
Loan/Credit                                                   Year of
Title                      Purpose                           Approval      Status
Ln. 2944-IND             To improve sectoral planning,          1988     On-going
Higher Education         institutional management in
Dev. Project             higher education, and educat-
ional quality and efficiency
Ln. 3158-IND Second      To improve secondary education         1990     On-going
Secondary Education      quality, equity and management
and Management           through in-service teacher
Training Project         and supervisor training,
upgrading the MnEC's MIS and
related studies
Ln. 3311-IND             To support GOI's higher educ.          1991     On-going
Second Higher Educ.      development program to improve
Dev. Project             quality and efficiency in
education and research,
B. Project Timetable
Table 2: Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable
Date         Date           Date
Item                            Planned       Revised         Actual
-  Identification                                                       11/79
-  Preparation/Preappraisal                                          05-07/80
- Appraisal Mission                       03/81                      03-04/81
-  Loan Negotiations                      11/81       01/18/82       01/18/82
- Board Approval                          01/82       03/16/82       03/16/82
- Loan Signature                      04/05/82                       04/05/82
-  Loan Effectiveness                 05/24/82                       05/24/82
-  Project Completion                 06/30/87                       06/30/90
- Closing Date                        06/30/88        06/30/89       06/30/90
-  Last Disbursement                       -             -           11/07/90



- 25 -
C. Loan Disbursements
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank FY      1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Appraisal           2.0    7.0   17.0   39.0   62.0   80.0       -       -      -
estimate
Actual              0.2    0.6    5.4   19.8   38.7   54.5   68.8   77.1   79.1
Actual as % of       12      8      32     51     62      68     86     96      99
estimate
Actual as % of        0      1       7     25     48      68     86      96     99
total loan
Date of final
disbursement 11/07/90
Comments:
Difficulties the project encountered in starting up
implementation are reflected in the disbursement performance. Only 7s of
the total loan (or 32% of the appraisal estimate) was disbursed during the
first three years of the project. Procedural changes due to
decentralization of construction work and development budgets required
closer communication and coordination between the central and local
governments, which was lacking. It took almost two years to resolve these
matters, which were not expected at the time of appraisal. This was
compounded by severe budget cuts and insufficient staffing of the
implementation units. In effect, project implementation started full scale
at the end of the third year and subsequently improved significantly. In
1985, US$408,575 was cancelled due to misprocurement of equipment. The
Loan Account was closed on November 7, 1990, with a cancellation of the
undisbursed balance of US$460,061.



- :6 -
D. Project Implementation
Table 4: Planned and Actual Completion of Components
Appraisal Estimate          Actual
Varia-
Project Component              No. of  Planned       No. of                 sion
Insti- Completion   Insti-  Completion  (No.of
tutions  (year)      tutions    (year)    years)
Civil Works:
Element A:
Primary teacher training             9    1984              9      1986        2
schools                          31    1985             34       1987        2
20    1986             16      1988        2
Primary sports teacher               5    1984              3      1985        1
training schools                  5    1985              4       1986       1-2
3      1987        2
Special education teacher            3    1984              2      1986        2
training colleges                 2    1985              2       1987        2
1    1986             2       1988        2
Nat'l subject matter centers         3    1984              2       1986       2
1      1987        3
Regional inservice teacher           2    1985              2      1988        3
training centers
Element B:
Secondary teacher training           5    1984              8      1985       0-1
colleges                          6    1985              2       1986        1
1      1988        3
Element C: Center for
Educational  Administration          1    1984              1      1989        5
Equipment/Books:
Element A                  Phase I          1985        Phase I    1986           2
Phase II         1986        Phase II   1988          2
Phase III          -         Phase III  1990          4
Element B                  Phase I          1985        Phase I    1985           0
Phase II         1986        Phase II   1988          2
Phase III          -         Phase III  1990          4
Element C                  Phase I          1985        Phase I    1990           5
Technical Assistance: /a
1988                 1990            2
La Details of technical assistance and studies are provided in Tables 8, 10 & 12.
Source: PIUs, Second Teacher Training Project, MOEC



- 297
Comments for project implementation:
1.        As discussed in Part I, the project encountered various
difficulties, and was completed in June 1990 two years behind schedule.
The factors responsible for the delay were primarily: (a) procedural
changes in budget and procurement; b) lack of communication and budgetary
mechanisms between central and provincial governments; (c) lack of
full-time key project implementation staff and their frequent turnover;
(d) insufficient counterpart funds;and (e) protracted negotiations on a
consultantancy contract for technical assistance management.
2.        One important factor contributed to the implementation delay
was frequent turnover of key project management staff as illustrated
below:
Project Superior and Key PIU Staff Turnovers
1982 - 1990
Element        Element      Element
Position                   A              B            C /a
1.  Superior                       3               1         3
2.  Director(s)                    1               1         1 & 3
3. Assistant Director              1               2         1
4.  Treasurer(s)                   2               0         3 & 1
5.  Architect                      0               0         0
6. Procurement Officer             1               2         1
7.  Education Officer              0               1         1
8.  Secretary                      4               1         1
/a This smallest unit was managed separately by source of funds, and two
directors and two treasurers were assigned; one for management of
the loan funds and the other for the rupiah funds.  This arrangement
was one of the major causes of the delay of implementation for this
unit.



- 28 -
E. Project Costs and Financing
Table 5: Project Costs
--          Rp. billion --------       ----------  US$ million ---------
Category                     Appr      Actual      % Change         Appr.      Actual      X Change
Esti-    at comp-    (over and         Esti-    at comp-    (over and
mate       letion     under (-))       mate       letion      under (-))
Civil works /2                       46.53       72 64         56%           73.50       57.29        -22%
Furniture, books and                 25.85       49.00         90%           42.30       30.84        -27%
equipment /3
Technical assistance:
Fellowships & training              9.93       34.58        248%           16 20       22.95         42%
Specialists                         7.59       10.60         40%           12.20        7.13        -42%
Eval. & studies                     3.80        2.82        -26%            5.80        1.87        -68X
Project management, monitoring        0.00        1.11          -             0.00        0.65
and supervision
Total Cost                        93.70      170.74         82%          150.00      120.73        -20%
/1 Estimated costs at completion.
12 Includes Rp. 22.74 billion financed by GOI for additional construction work of IKIPs.
/3 Includes costs of materials development.
Corment s:
The cost underrun of 20% (US$29.3 million) was primarily attributable to the
devaluations of the Rupiah currency which took place during the project period. The Rupiah
was drastically devaluated from Rp. 625/US dollar at appraisal in 1981 to Rp. 1,858/US dollar
in 1990, the last year of disbursement. In terms of the Rupiah currency, however, the project
cost exceeded the appraisal estimate by 82% because of the declining value of the Rupiah
against the US dollar.



_ ?9 _
Table 6A: Project Financing
Planned
(Ln. 2101-IND)         Revised             Final
Agreement           (in 1986)          (in 1990)
Source            (US$'000)   %         (US$'000) %        (US$'000) %
IBRD
Expenditure Categories
(1)  Civil works                27,700             27,700              20,129
(2)  Equipment, materials       26,000             25,700              27,240
and furniture
(3)  Technical assistance       22,100             25,200              31,113
(4)  Project management              0                 991                649
monitoring and
supervision
(5)  Unallocated                 4,200                   0                  0
Total IBRD                    80,000   53%       79,591   64%        79,131   66%
Government
70,000   47%       44,200   36%       41,600   34%
TOTAL                     150,000  100%      123,791  100%       120,731  100%
Comments:
The loan agreement was amended to increase the percentage to be
financed from the loan for civil works from 40% to 55% in 1984 and again
from 55% to 80% in 1987. In 1986 the loan agreement was further amended
to include a new financing category "project management, monitoring and
supervision" to be financed 100% by the loan, and to finance furniture
from the loan, to alleviate the severe budgetary constraints facing the
MOEC, thus improving project implementation.



- 30 -
Table 6B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(in US dollars)
Revised            Final
Category             Original            (in 1986)         (in 1990)
(1)  Civil works               27,700,000        27,700,000    20,129,327.97
(2)  Equipment, materials    26,000,000          25,700,000    27,240,331.54
and furniture
(3)  Technical assistance    22,100,000          25,200,000    31,113,122.81
(4)  Project management              0.00           991,425        648,581.56
monitoring and
supervision
(5)  Unallocated                4,200,000                  0              0.00
Cancelled as of 12/13/1985 /a                       408,575        408,575.00
Undisbursed balance cancelled                                       460,061.12
effective 11/07/1990
TOTAL                     80,000,000        80,000,000    80,000,000.00
/a Due to misprocurement of equipment.



31  -
F. Proiect Results
Table 7: Nuimber of Institutions Assisted and Niumber of Additional Student Places Provided
Appraisal estlmates                Actual at completion la
No. of     Number of student places               Number of student
insti-   --------------------------    No. of  places or enrol-
tutlons                                  insti-  lments (1989/90)
to be   Existing  To be                 ttutions -------------------
Component                    assisted 1980/81   added    Total        assisted Added        Total
Primary preservice teacher training:
General teacher training schools (SPG)          60   27,000       360    27,360         59      2,773      29,773
Sports teacher training schools (SGO)           10    3,600    1,200       4,800        10      2,799       6,399
Secondary preservice teacher                      11   58,200   16,000    74,200          11     16,000      74,200
traintng colleges (IKIP/FKIP)
Special education teachers colleges                6    1,000    1,400       2,400         6       3,131      4,131
(SGPLB)
Inservice teacher training:
National subject matter centers                  3       450        0        450         3           0        450
Regional training centers                        2         0      300        300         2        270         270
Education administration center (PUSDIKLAT)        1         0      250        250         1         250         250
Total                                  93   90,250   19,510   109,760          92      25,223    115,473
Sources: PIUs, Second Teacher Training Project, MOEC
/a Data for primary teacher training is 1986/87 enrollments, which is the latest available with full
enrollments because no new entrants were enrolled during 1988-90 due to the Government's decision to
raise the level of training from senlor secondary to post-secondary level as well as to
refunctionalize some of the instltutions as senior secondary schools. Data for secondary teacher
training represent the student places added under the project only.
Cormments: Enrollments at completion of the project met or exceeded the appraisal targets for all
components except for the regional training centers. For primary teacher training, it exceeded because
most SPGs enrolled more than the level set for each type of schools (Annex 3).  However, the recent
policy changes in teacher education resulted in the refunctionalization of 31 of the 59 project SPGs as
senior secondary schools (Annex 1, para. 10). Accordingly, the net project provision for general primary
teacher training as of May 1991, after the conversion of 31 project SPGs to secondary schools, is 28
institutions, with an enrollment of about 14,300, for the new D2 program for primary teacher training.
Further review of the former SPGs/SGOs retained for the new D2 program is being undertaken by DGHE based
on the ongoing teacher training analysis. As for secondary teacher training, 16,000 student places were
added as planned at appraisal. However, the total enrollment in 1989/90 was over 87,000, exceeding the
appraisal estimates by about 18% (Annex 4), largely because, in responding to the shortage of teachers,
GOI made investments with its own funds for expansion of the facilities in parallel with the project.
With the proliferation of private teacher training institutions during the early 1980s, these factors
contributed to an oversupply of primary and senior secondary school teachers, the latter particularly in
the humanities. However, junior secondary teachers are still in short of supply, particularly science
and math teachers in isolated areas.  The Government is aware of this problem and is taking steps towards
rectifying the situation in conjunction with the reorganization of the teacher training system to improve
the quality and management of the system. With regard to the national subject matter centers, as
indicated in appraisal estimates, the main goal was to supply these centers with required facilities to
operate ongoing programs more effectively and better respond to quality needs.



- 3) -
Table 8:  Staff Development -        Overseas Fellowship Program
Status of Returnees lb
Returned
Actual        to home  Employed
at          Insti-    within
Appraisal  Revised    Comple-        tutions    MOEC    Other
Institutions/Level of Studies           Estimate   (TAMU /a)   tion              (a)      (b)       (c)
--------------------------------------    ------------------Number of fellows- -----------------------
Element A - (Primary Preservice/Speclal
Education/Inservice Training):
Doctoral level                             8         11          6              0        5         1
Master's level                           105        105        126            111       13         2
Short-term                                91       143         150           136         4        10
Subtotal                          204        259         282           247        22        13
Element B - (Secondary Preservice):
Doctoral level                           100         54         63             63        0         0
Master's level                           144         80        114            114        0         0
Short-term (Sandwich)                     22        52          58            58         0         0
Refresher A                                0         11         53             53        0         0
Refresher B                                0          0         39             39        0         0
Refresher C                                0          0        143            143        0         0
B A A K (Administration)                   0         10         10             10        0         0
Subtotal                          266        207         480           480         0         0
Element C - (Education Admin. TraLning):
Doctoral level                             3          3          2              0        0         2
Master's level                             8          8         10              0        2         8
Short-term                                23        20          41            16         6        19
Subtotal                           34         31          53            16         8       29
PIU Staff
Study tours Id                            12          0          0             0         0         0
Total:  Docetoral level                  111        68          71            63         5         3
Master's level                  257        193         250           225        15       10
Short-term study                148        236         494           455        10       29
TOTAL                       516       497         815 /c        743 Ic    30         42
As a X of Total Returnees                                   100X           91X        4X        5X
Sources: PIUs, Second Teacher Training Project, MOEC
La The program was revised at the time the Technlcal Assistance Management Unit (TAMU) was established
in 1984 to self-manage the overseas fellowship program.
lb (a) represent those fellows returned to respective home institutions as planned: (b) represent those
who did not return to their home institutions but utilizing the newly acquired knowledge and skills
within MOECi and (c) represent the returnees who are employed outside MOEC, with specific assignments
unknown,
Ic Includes 6 fellovs who are still pursuing PhD programs funded under other Bank-assisted project.
Id The Government did not approve the study tours planned for PIU staff.



- 33 -
Comments for Overseas Fellowshio Program:
1.        Thc overseas fellowship program was revised in 1984, reflecting the specific needs of the
lnstitutions and the availabillty of qualified candidates. At completion, the overall overseas
fellowships far exceeded both the appralsal and revised estimates by about 58% and 64%, respectively.
Only nine fellows did not complete their studles for various reasons (death, il.ness, failure) and slx
fellows were still pursuing PhD programs. The high success rate appears to be attributable to
predeparture language training, and close monitoring, counseling and guidance provided during their
study. However, degree programs, both at the doctoral and masters levels, were below the appraisal
estimates by 36X and 3%, respectively, although they exceeded the revised estimates. This reflects the
limited availability of qualified candidates for degree programs and the fact that appraisal estimates
were unrealistic.
2.        This successful component has greatly increased the staff qualification levels of the teacher
training institu,ions. The participants in overseas training programs, particularly those from the SPGs
and other primary teacher educatLon institutions, constitute the only substantial group of
professionals employed within the MOEC who are both experienced primary teacher educators and holders
of higher-level degrees. It is therefore vital to ensure that the skills they have built up at home
and abroad are fully utilized, both in planning the future of primary teacher eduction ln Indonesia,
and in enhancing its quality.
3.        Refresher programs (overseas 3 to 6 months) were developed specifically to provide
opportunities for experienced and qualified faculty members and managers of IKIP/FRIPs to extend their
knowledge base, curriculum design and instructional methodologies. The program participants were
required to write course text and instructors' manuals and develop or update course outlines and
instructional materials to upgrade the content of courses they will teach In Indonesia upon completion
of the program. These programs have resulted in producing over 250 such materials, which have been
printed and distributed to all IKIPs end concerned agencies after discussions and revlew by colleagues
and superiors (Part III, Table 11). This was an innovative and important feature of the program since
fewer than 100 national pedagogical books existed previously.
4.         A study /1 on the reentry and utilization of overseas training program returnees supported
under the project was carried out in 1989. The findings of the study indicate, inter alia, that: (i)
in genoral the returnees did not have serious problems in the process of social readjustment; (ii)
returnees have, in general, been extensively utilized by their home institutions; and (LL1) the overseas
training has had a positive impact on the returnees, their home institutions and the academic
communlties.  The advantages of the training for the academic communities are in contribution of ldeas
ln teaching-learning processes, curriculum and development of theorLees. The findings and
recommendations of the study would be an important lnstrument for better planning, programmlng and
implementation of future overseas training programs and for enhancing utilization of the returnees and
maxLmLzing their impact on institution bullding.
,1 A study on The Reentry and Utilizatlon of Overseas Trainina Program Returnees was carried out by
Element B. the Second Teacher TraLning Project, MOEC ln 1989, encompassing 90 degree program
returnees sponsored under the project, 114 superiors, 273 colleagues and 455 students at eight
Institutes of Teacher Training and EducatLon (IKIPs).



- 34 -
Table 9: Staff Development - In-country Training
No. of
Partici-
Appraisal estimates                                   Results                          pants
About 1,400 staff in total were estimated to
be provided with training,
Primary Preservice Teacher Training              Following the in-country training developed
Training to promote effective use of             under the first project with modifications,
project assistance, and an integrated            cluster training in teaching-learning processes
regional training & special education            covering education, science, math, language and
social sciences was provided with expert
assistance to:
SPGISGO/SGPLB teachers                              1,153
SGO teachers on physical ed.                          613
SGPLB teachers on special ed. (deaf,blind,            413
mentally retarded, physically handicapped
& emotionally disturbed).
Secondary Preservice Teacher Training            Training in teaching-learning processes
Inservice training for Secondary Teacher         was provided to staff from 44 IKIPslFKIPs in
Training College staff on subject matters        14 subject areas.                                     1, 100
Training in automation of academic administ-
ration was provided to staff from 44 IKIPslFKIPs:
Dept heads and secretaries                          1,386
Academic administration staff                         510
Training in library management Was provided to          179
staff from 10 IRIPs, 20 public univ., 32 private
higher education institutions & 2 Bali regional
government agedncies.
TOTAL                                            5,354
Comments:
The total number of staff benefitting from in-country training was almost four times mwre than
estimated at appraisal. The duration of the courses ranged from 56 to 70 hours. Multi-staged cluster
training for SPG/SGO/SGPLB teachers and managers focussed on the management of teaching-learning
processes. At national workshops for key teachers in various fields of training, the respective
institutions and government agencies were also represented, which is essential to enhance the
effectiveness of the workshops. In addition, technical training in computer skills and system management
was given to the computer unit staff, and training in laboratory equipment operation and maintenance was
given to laboratory staff lncluding staff from the Learning Resource Centers. Training on laboratory
operatione and maintennce encouraged teachers to use the new teaching equipment in the classroom. This
successful component has greatly increased the staff qualification levels of the IRIP and SPG/SGO/SGPLB
institutions. It also helped enhance utilization and effectiveness of the Learning Resource Centers vhich
were established under the First Teacher Training Project (Part I, par-. 2.6).



- 35 -
Table 10: Specialists Servlces
Appraisal                             Actual at
estimates            Revlsed          completion
No. of             No. of             No. of
specia- Staff-     specia- Staff-     specia- Staff-
Component & areas of specialization           lists   months     lists   months     lists   months
ELEMENT A
Primary Preservice (SPG/SGO)
Administration of teacher training                8     288
Language and social studies ed.                                      2      36          2        32
Language education                                                   -      -            1        7
Math. and natural science education                                  2      36          2        35
Education administration                                             2      36          1        19
Physical and health education                                        2      36          1        15
Research and development                                             1      18           1       18
Soecial Education (SGPLB)
Special education                              z-6 )    72           5      25          4        17
Special education planning                     2-5 )
Special education administration                                     1       5          -        -
Special education research                                           -       -          5        14
Staff development                                                    1       5          -        -
In-service Tralnina (BPG/PPPG)
Teacher training & naterials dev.               1-3      36          -       -          -        -
National strategy & curr. development                                1      12          2        26
Materials dev: math. sci L language                                  3      36          2        14
Special consultant in social studies                                   -       -          1         9
Project management                                                     -       -          1        24
Architect                                                              -       -           1       24
Total for Element A                           13-22   396          20     245         24      253
ELEMENT B
Secondary Preservice (IKIP)
Teacher training, curriculum dev.               14-20   288
& materials development
College management including                     16     120
library management
IKIP Jakarta:
Sports & health education                                            4      20          3       15
Language educatlon                                                   4      20          3        14
Social science education                                             2      10          6        32
Education technology                                                 2      10          3        15
Teat and measurement                                                 -       -          1       14
Qualitative research                                                 -       -          1         8
TTC Bandung:
Science education                                                    4      20          2       10
Research methodology                                                 4      20          4        20
Guidance and counseling                                              2      10          1        5
Language education                                                   2      10          2        10
Out-of-school education                                              2      10          3        25
General education                                                    -       -          1        14
Policy studies                                                       -       -          1        14
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__---__-----------------------



- 36 -
Table 10: Specialists Services (continued)
Appraisal                                Actual at
estimates            Revised            completion
No. of              No. of               No. of
specia- Staff-      specia- Staff-       specia- Staff-
Cocponent & areas of specialization                   lists   months      lists   months       lists   months
ELEMENT B (cont'd)
TTC Malang:
Science education                                                        4       20           2       10
Mathematics education                                                    4       20           1         5
Research methodology                                                     -        -           1         3
Business education                                                       4       20           1        5
Educational technology                                                   2       10           3       20
Curriculum and instruction                                               -        -           1       14
Educational administration                                               -        -           1       12
Counselor education                                                      -        -           1       14
Central PIU:
Sp. consultant on academic admin.                                        -        -           1       19
Sp. consul, on books & periodicals                                       -        -           1        2
Library management                                                       3       15           1        5
Academic administration                                                  3       15           5        34
Total for Element B                             30-36   408           46     230          50       339
ELEMENT C
Administrator Trainina
Educational administration trng                     2       48           -        -           -
Training C org. development                                              1       12           1       12
Training research S evaluation                                           1       12           -         -
Management and operations                                                -        -           2       24
Total for Element C                               2       48           2      24           3        36
Proiect Coordinatina Secretariat
Educ. evaluation L proj. management                    1      24           -        -           0         0
TechnlcaL Assistance Management Unit (TAMU)
Specialist coordinator                                                   1       42           1       45
Research & evaluation                                                    2       36           1        9
Total for TAMU                                    0        0           3       78          2        54
TOTAL                       46-61   876          71      577          79      682
Sources: PIUs, Second Teacher Training Project, MOEC
Comments: The total staff-month of specialist services utilized was less than the appraisal estimate by
about 22Z. The variance was attributable mostly to the fact that the MOEC decided to defer arrival of
specialists until upgraded and better qualified trainers had returned from overseas training to work with
specialists as counterparts, thus reducing the length of service required from the specialists. Thls
arrangement worked well and resulted in better transfer of knowledge and skills and production of a large
number of teaching materials which were lacking (Part III, Table 11). Subsequently, part of the
provisions of specialist services for subject matters was substituted for overseas training in concurrence
with Bank missions.



- 3 7 -
Table 11: Teaching Material Development
No.of final
Materials developed                                                    products
The specialists prepared various papers, handbooks, course materials, instructional                      70
manuals and other materials in addition to mid-term and final reports on their
assignments, covering various aspects of the project: primary and secondary teacher
education, physical education, science, math, teachig-learning processes, special
education, course development, curriculum development and instruction planning, etc.
(ref. Appendix 4.12 of PCR prepared by PIUs, MOEC).
Element A Instructional materials (called 'Learning Packages') and ourse materials were
prepared by senior SPG teachers and Directorate of Teacher Training staff.  The                         230
Learning Packages cover five subjects: Bahasa Indonesia, mathematics, science, social
scLence and pedagogy. Each package consisted of 4 books, including study guLde, teacher's
manual, materials and media, and student worksheets, covering six semesters of SPG
curriculum (120 volumes).
Element B As part of the Refresher Training (overseas) Program, development of teaching
books and materials endeavored to improve course contents and teaching-learning processes.
Books and course materials were written by the overseas fellowship returnees in the
following areas:
Education: curriculum, educational foundations, educational administration
religion and edu, edu.  statistics, research & evaluation, guidance & counseling,                    149
teaching-learning processes, and educ. technology
Sciences: math/statistics, physics, chemistry, biology, technology and industry,
computer science                                                                                       43
Social Science/Humanities: economics & management, history, social studies,
linguistics, coamunication & organization, ecology, sports & health, philosophy & art                 64
Academic manuscripts were produced collaboratively by the specialists and thier                           7
counterparts.
Element C
Instructional materials                                                                              51
TOTAL                         614
Source: PIUs, Second Teacher Training Project, MOEC
Comments: Quantitative targets were not specified in the SAR, but special efforts were made in
teaching material development with the assistance of consultant specialists, resulting in the
production of over 600 titles. 'Learning Packages' for primary teacher training went through a
series of try outs and revisions with a group of key teachers and distributed to 269 SPGs and 81
agencies concerned with teacher education. Cluster training programs for primary teachers introduced
new primary education concepts and how to use the newly developed materials effectively in primary
schools. This activity had been initiated during the first project and continued under the second
project. The materials developed are the result of many years of work and are now having, according
to the MOEC officials, a very positive impact on the quality of primary school teaching. Teaching
materials for secondary teacher training were printed after discussions and reviews by colleagues and
superiors and distributed to all IKIPs and concerned agencies.



- 38 -
Table 12: Project Studies
Topica planned at appraisal                            Status & Impact at Completion
(a) Pre-service teacher training:   In spite of the efforts by both the Project and the Bank to carry out
to reviev ways to overcome       the study under the project, it was eventually agreed that this would
structural and managerial        be carried out under the Higher Education Development Project (Ln.2944-
constraints                      IND) largely because of disagreement among the involved GOI agencies on
the objective and scope of the study. A study is currently underway.
Tracer studies were completed, consisting of two parts:
Part I: Teacher Selection & Placement: Indonesia's
Practice & Policies - completed in 1988. The objective of the study
was to determine how the teaher supply system was working by tracing
the new S-1 program graduates of five IKIPs in the years 1982-84 who
entered employment in the public sector. Its principal recommenda-
tions included, inter alia, an establishment in MOEC of an advisory
group on recruitment, selection, & assignment of educational personneli
reducing the length of time it takes to complete individual hiring
processes: and reducing the disparity of teacher distribution. This
approach is being considered to be used in tracing the graduates of
Yogyakarta and Padang technical teacher preservice programs.
Part II: The Reentry and Utilization of Overseas
Program Returnees - completed in 1989. This Part looked at how
overseas training could be made a more integral part of lnstitutional
development.  The conclusions and recommendations, if applied, could
have an important training policy impact.
(b) In-service teacher training      Completed.  Three methods of instructions, i.e., refresher/renewal,
upgrading and qualifylng courses for the unqualified, identified under
the study are being experimented and are expected to be used in the
national and regional training centers.
(c) Special education                Completed.  The conclusions of the study were used as the bases of
formulating the national strategy and led the GOI to establish special
education programs in about 200 schools.
(d) Educational administation        Completed.  The findings and recommendatlons of the study were used in
training                         drawing up the role and training program of the Center for Education
Administration (PUSDIKLAT).
---- ----- -- ----------- --- -- -- -- -- ----------- ----- ----- -----__---- ------ __--- --- ------ -- ----------



- 39 -
G. Status of Lexal Covenants
Table 13: Compliance with Loan Covenants
Covenants                         Description of Covenants                                           Status
Art.3.01(b)  Establish and maintain (i) a Steering Council, (lI) a Project    Complied with except for (Li) &
Coordinating Committee: (iii) a Project Coordinating Secre-             (ILI) which were established but
tariat and (iv) three Project Units.                                    did not assume the planned respon-
sibilities. A TA Management Unit
was also established in 1984 to
self-manage the overseas fellow-
ship programs. (Part I, para. 4.4)
Art.3.01(c)  Undertake studies to Improve the organlzation, operation                 Three of the four studies completed.
and coordlnation of integrated primary and secondary teacher            A teacher training study is being
training in Part A.3 of the Project.                                    carried out under the Higher Educ.
Dev.Project. (Part I, para. 5.10)
Art. 3.02    Employ consultants and experts whose qualification, experi-              In compliance
ence, timing and terms and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Bank.
Art. 3.05    Take such actions as shall be necessary to acquire as and                In compliance
when needed all such land and rights, and furnish to the
Bank evidence that such land and rights In respect of land
are available and satisfactory.
Art. 3.06    By December 31, 1983, prepare the national special education             In compliance
strategy and furnish a copy to the Bank for Its review.
Art. 3.07    By December 31, 1983, prepare the plar. for a national                   In compliance
integrated system of inservice training.
Art. 3.08    Ensure that the scope & methods of project monitoring & evalu-   Partly complied with.
ation shall be carried out in a manner satisfactory to Bank.            (Part I, para. 5.9)
Art.  3.09   Select candidates for the fellowships, study programs & short    In compliance
training courses included in the Project in accordance with
procedures, criteria and timetables acceptable to the Bank.
Art.  3.10   Ensure that provisions satisfactory to the Bank shall be made    Partly complied with. Some project
for the proper installatlon, use and maintenance of equipment    institutes suffered from the lack
procured for the purpose of the Project.                                of funds for equip. maintenance.
Art.4.02(b)  Furnish the Bank with certified copies the accounts for all              In compliance
components a-adited by independent auditors, and separate SOE
audits, not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, until one year after the Closing Date.



- 40 -
H. Use of Bank Resources
Table 14:  Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle (staff-weeks)
Activity      FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    Total
Preappraisal      0.1    1.9   66.9   36.3                                                                                  105.2
Appraisal                               37.6   22.2                                                                          59.8
Negotiations                                   11.3                                                                          11.3
Supervision                                     1.6   12.4   15.1   19.2   19.0   15.1   13.7    9.3    7.7    3.0    116.1
PCR                                                                                                          1.1    4.8       5.9
Total           0.1    1.9   66.9   73.9   35.1   12.4   15.1   19.2   19.0   15.1   13.7    9.3    8.8    7.8    298.3
Table 15: Mission Data
Perfor-
Staff-                                mance
Month/        No. of          weeks         Specialization        rating         Type of
Stage of Project Cycle          Year         Persons        in Field       represented            Status /a      Problems
Identification                 11/79            3              9.8         Educator(2),Architect
Preparation/                  05-07/80          5             22.6         Educators(3)
preappraisal                                                             Architects (2)
Appraisal                     03-04/81          6             17.3         Educators (3)
Architects (2)
Admin. Asst.
Supervision I   /b             08/82            1              1.6         Gen educator              2           Management/Tech.
Supervision II  /b             10/82            2              0.7         Gen educator,Architec   2             Management
Supervision III /b             02/83            2              2.1         Gen educator              2           Management
Supervision IV  lb             11/83            2              1.4         Gen educator,             2           Management
Architect
Supervision V                  07/84            3              1.1         Gen educator,             2           Financial
Architect & local
Architect
Supervision VI                 05/85            2              2.3         Gen educator,             2           Management
Local architect
Supervision VII                11(85            2              2.0         Gen educator,             2           Management
Architect
Supervision VIII               07/86            1              0.9         Gen educator              2           Management
Supervision IX                 11/86            1              3.7         Gen educator              1           Management
Supervision X                  06/87            2              1.7         Gen educator,             1           Management
Opn assistant
Supervision XI                 11/87            1              2.4         Gen educator              1           Management
Supervision XII                03/88            1              2.4         Gen educator              1           Management
Supervision XIII               03/89            1              1.6         Gen educator              1           Management
Supervision XIV                06/89            2              2.0         Opn assistant,            1           Management
Local architect
Supervision XV                 03/90            1              2.6         Gen educator              1           Management
/a 1 = problem free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problem.
/b These were combined missions for the supervision of the First (Ln. 1433-IND) and the Second (Ln. 2101-IND)
Projects.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 2101-IND)
Sectoral Developments and Issues in Teacher Education
1.      The rapid GDP growth experienced by Indonesia in the 1970s put severe
strains on the country's limited skilled manpower which in turn had emerged as a
critical constraint to further growth. GOI achieved impressive sectoral progress
during the 1970s-1980s by creating over five millon new primary student places
under the INPRES school construction program, reaching near universal primary
enrollment and expanding junior secondary enrollment from less than two million
to over six million (53% of age group) and senior secondary from less than one
million to over four million and higher education program from one percent to
three percent. In spite of the rapid expansion, Indonesia's senior secondary and
higher education systems remained inadequate for its development needs with the
senior secondary enrollment ratio reaching 37% of the relevant age cohort during
the 1980s and higher education enrollment for the age cohort 20-24 still lower
than the average of other low income countries, four percent.
2.      The rapid expansion in primary enrollment in the 1970s created
difficulties in maintaining qualified/trained teacher supplies in pace with the
enrollment strides. The GOI recognized that provision of adequate physical
facilities would go only part of the way toward qualitative improvement and
focussed its attention on improved teacher training, textbooks and instructional
materials. Thus, the Government determined to focus on qualitative improvements,
especially of teacher upgrading and textbooks, in support of a more equitable
education system and to alleviate manpower constraints.
3.      At the time of appraisal, the formal system of education consisted of six
years of primary school, three years each of lower and upper secondary and two to
six years of post-secondary education. The senior secondary level included
general academic (54%), technical, commercial, home economics, agricultural,
primary teacher training schools (SPG) and primary sports teacher training
schools (SGO). A parallel system of private schools also existed at all types of
schools and levels, especially at the senior secondary level. Responsibility for
management of teacher education was divided between two directorates general.
Preservice training of primary school teachers was conducted at primary teacher
training institutions (three-year upper secondary level) under the Directorate
General for Primary and Secondary Education (DGPSE) and preservice training of
secondary teachers at two types of institutions under the Directorate General for
Higher Education (DGHE): secondary teacher training colleges (two to four-year
post-secondary level, IKIPs) and education faculty of universities (FKIPs).
Management of inservice training for both primary and secondary teachers was the
responsibility of DGPSE.
4.      The main teacher training issues identified at the time of appraisal
(1981) were: (a) an imbalance between supply and demand for teachers and poor



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
internal efficiency of preservice teacher training; (b) the low quantity and
quality of training for special education; (c) an inadequate system of inservice
training; and (d) a lack of systematic training of administrators. Some of the
problems were related to the structure of teacher training. For example,
although the best resources for teacher training were located at the 10 IKIPs and
20 FKIPs under DGHE, these IKIPs/FKIPs were separate in organizational structure
from SPGs under DGPSE thus making it difficult for SPG teachers to take advantage
of these resources; and the inservice training centers were located near
IKIPs/FKIPs where the best resources were available and were expected to receive
assistatnce from college staff, but a direct line relationship was precluded by
organizational structure.
5.      Recognizing the issues, GOI, with Bank assistance under the Third
Education and First Teacher Training Projects (Cr. 387-IND and Ln. 1433-IND) and
supported under the locally funded Education Diploma Development Project in DGHE,
had taken initial steps toward an improved structure--creating eight teacher
training catchment areas each with a leading institution. Simultaneously, GOI
was contemplating two important policy changes which would affect teacher
education: these were an extension of basic education to eight years and raising
preservice primary teacher training requirements from the senior secondary school
level to a two-year post-secondary level.
6.      The First Teacher Training Project (Ln. 1433-IND) was approved in 1977
and completed in 1984, generally achieving the project objectives of improving
teacher training at both primary and secondary teacher training levels by: (a)
upgrading about 7,000 teachers; (b) providing specialized Learning Resource
Centers in 54 primary and 15 secondary teacher training colleges; and (c)
developing teacher training materials. The project's aim was to change the
teacher-centered approach to student-centered instruction with greater student
involvement in the learning process, and to introduce new teaching methodology.
However, the Learning Resource Centers were underutilized because of insufficient
understanding and knowledge of the staff about the Centers. The project was
managed successfully by one implementation unit placed under the Directorate of
Teacher Training, DGPSE. Lessons learned Ll were: (a) short-term overseas
training can be cost-effective only if well organized; (b) the need for adequate
language training for prospective fellows; (c) staff of the Learning Resource
Centers should be provided with suitable training; and (d) continuity of Bank
staff during project implementation was necessary to improve disbursements and
physical progress. Results obtained during the first three years of the First
Project led to a GOI request for further assistance to cover the teacher training
system more fully.
7.      The Bank started its direct involvement in general secondary education in
Indonesia in 1983 with a sector study Z2, followed by two projects, the first
/1l    World Bank, OED, PPAR, Indonesia: Fifth Education Project (Loan
1433-IND), June 1986.
/2     World Bank, General Secondary Education in Indonesia: Issues and
Programs for Action, Report No. 4954-IND, July 1984.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
and second Secondary Education and Management Training Projects in 1984 and 1990,
respecti-vly (Lns. 2472-IND and 3158-lND). The main issues the study identified
were grouped into five broad categories: the quality of output; equity; output
capacity; financing; and administration. Principel sources of the low quality of
learning were: lack of quality-producing resources; low level of budgetary
provisions for education; teachers' employment conditions; and the school
examination system. To address these issues, the first project covered the first
three years of a ten-year program of activities, including teacher improvement,
improved provision of science equipment, strengthening of examinations,
assessment of management training needs, preinvestment studies and project
evaluation activities. The first project was completed in 1990. It is too early
to assess the project outcomes but initial reviews appear to indicate positive
trends at the secondary level. The second project continues to support: teacher
upgrading to raise the quality of the teaching of English, mathematics and
science, and initiating teacher training activities in social sciences; provision
of science equipment; qualitative improvement of examinations; and strengthening
of management and planning activities.
8.      Although indirect assistance was provided through two textbook and two
teacher training projects (Cr. 387 and Lns. 2102, 1433 and 2101-IND), it was only
in the late 1980s that the Bank started its direct involvement in primary
education with a basic education study. This was partly a reflection of GOI's
preference for developing primary education exclusively with national resources
and partly because surplus funds from oil revenues were made available for
primary school buildings. Nevertheless, the late direct involvement in the
subsector necessarily limited previous Bank knowledge and understanding of the
system, and of issues in primary education. The principal recommendations of the
study /3 were to: (a) improve teacher competence and motivation by raising the
level of preservice education, and by the provision of classroom-based primary
teacher inservice training and regular pedagogical supervision, professional
opportunities for advancement, and professional support to teachers by
strengthened supervisors; (b) increase budgets for educational materials which
are vital for improving the quality of basic education; and (c) rationalize the
dual management of primary education. The study has led to a GOI request for the
proposed Primary Education Quality Improvement Project, which is now under
preparation, and which should assist GOI in formulating comprehensive subsectoral
policies for primary education while introducing quality improvements in selected
provinces.
9.      In the late 1980s, it became apparent that primary school intakes had
been on a plateau for most of the decade and the average teacher attrition rate
during the 1980s was less than one percent /4. The primary enrollment plateau
could, based on further analysis, represent positive developments such as reduced
L3    World Bank, Indonesia: Basic Education Study, Report No. 7841-IND,
December 1989.
A4     World Bank, Indonesia: Strengthening the Quality of Teacher Education,
draft technical paper, June 1989.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
repeaters and dropouts, reduced overage students and low population growth. The
low teacher attrition rate reflects the youth of the primary teaching force, due
to a large numbar of young teaching staff employed during the primary school
expansion program which took place in the 1970s and early 1980s. Because of the
low teacher attrition and continued high teacher outputs, an overall national
surplus of trained primary teachers has resulted, although significant disparity
of teacher distribution airung districts and subdistricts remains. The unexpected
proliferation of private SPGs during early 1980s also contributed to the excess
primary teacher supply capacity.  Thus, the problems of primary teacher provision
in Indonesia are essentially problems of oversupply and distribution, of quality
and relevance of methodology. 'Pockets of teacher shortages' exist alongside
'pockets of oversupply' in many areas, primarily in expanding urban rather than
rural areas, due partly to substantial population movements, bringing many
workers from the rural areas to the cities and new industrial zones, and partly
to poor management /5. In the aggregate, there is a plentiful supply of
teachers, but many of them are teaching in the wrong places L6.
10.     In 1989 the Minister of Education and Culture announced the GOI's
commitment to achieving universal lower secondary school enrollment by the end of
Repelita VI (1994/95-1998/99), and Education Law No. 2, 1989, introduced for all
7-15 year olds an extended nine-year basic education, comprising the first cycle
of six years of primary and the second cycle of three years of lower secondary.
Subsequently, GOI announced policy changes in teacher education to improve the
quality of education as well as to implement the extended basic education without
sacrificing quality. The major changes were: (a) raising qualifications for
primary teachers from senior secondary years to post-secondary two-year (D2)
program; (b) shifting the responsibility for management of primary teacher
education from DGPSE to DGHE; and (c) retaining 123 public institutions (former
SPGs/SGOs) for the new D2 program for primary teachers and refunctionalizing L7
the remaining 135 public SPGs/SGOs (including 31 SPGs supported under the
project) as senior secondary schools. Ongoing teacher training analysis has
resulted in further review of the former SPGs/SGOs retained for the new D2
program.
11.     The aggregate capacity of the IKIPs/FKIPs to produce new graduates
appears to meet the overall needs of the secondary school (junior and senior)
system for new teachers, although the disparity of supply and needs between
junior and senior secondary teachers is significant. While there is a surplus of
senior secondary teachers, junior secondary teachers, by contrast, are in short
of supply in science and math areas (see footnote 4). It is therefore important
/5     It is difficult for a centrally managed system to respond to changes
without analysis of teacher outputs and needs.
/6     T. Somerset and D. Nielsen, Indonesia: the Primary Teacher Education
Study, Draft Report, April 1991.
/7     The term "refunctionalization" as used in this report refers to the
change in function of a school(s) from teacher education to secondary
education in accordance with the GOI decision.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
for MOEC to review the structure and programs of TKIPs/FKIPs as well as their
linkages to higher education under the new teacher education system to respond to
the changing demands for new teachers. It is also important to ensure that
qualified persons with knowledge and experience are involved with teacher
training since, except for a key group of trainer educators recently upgraded
under the project, the faculty members appear to be underqualified, weak in
subject matter knowledge and lacking the school teaching experience needed to
understand and improve teacher training quality. Therefore, the emerging issues
in secondary teacher training are primarily: (a) problems of balancing, rather
than increasing, the present supply of teachers to meet the changing needs in
subject areas and type of programs; (b) improving the quality of the present
supply of teachers; and (c) management and organization of the integrated teacher
training system.
12.     The challenges facing teacher training remain large and complex and need
further analysis before additional decisions with long term institutional
consequences and major financial implications are made. However, some issues, in
particular, matching teacher outputs and needs, the content of the new D2 course
for primary teachers (to fit nine-year basic education program) and management
and organization of teacher education, require immediate attention and action.
In this endeavor, GOI revitalized a coordinating advisory committee on teacher
training, supply and deployment, which has been carrying out a thorough review of
teacher education focusing on three main sets of issues: the distribution of
primary teachers, primary teacher needs, and the content and management of the
new D-2 preservice program for primary teachers. A forthcoming teacher
development project is expected to assist GOI in improving these areas. The
organizational/institutional issues of teacher education under the new system
would need to be reviewed and addressed as a matter of priority. In sum, GOI has
been or is in the process of taking major steps towards its goal of quality
improvements.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 2101-IND)
Proiect Costs by Source of Finance and Implementation Unit
COST
GOI financed                IBRD financed                  TOTAL
Category               (Rp.million)(USS '000)       (Rp.million)(US$ '000)      (Rp.million)(USS '000)
Element A
Civil works                          11,160      9,300           17,947      11,896           29,107      21,196
Furniture,books,equipment             2,720       1,600          25,418      16,371           28,138      17,971
Technical asslstance                      0           0           1,647         969            1,647         969
(In-rountry training)
Project management                        0           0             802         460              802         460
Total for Element A            13,880      10,900           45,814      29,696           59,694     40,596
Element B
Civil works                           7,247       6,321           6,333       5,523           13,580      11,844
Additional IKIP constr.              22,740     20,100                 0          0           22,740      20,100
Furniturelbooks/equipment               863         549          14,021       8,919           14,884       9,468
Material development                      0           0           2,318       1,288            2,318       1,288
Inland handling                          88          52                0          0               88          52
Technical Assistance:
Fellowships                           403        271           28,370      19,092           28,773      19,363
BAAK in-country trainig                 0           0             403         244              403         244
In-country training                 2,462      1,539                0           0            2,462       1,539
Supr.Prog for IKIP comput.              0           0             759         511              759         511
Library development                     0           0              157         95              157          95
Specialists                             0           0          10,599       7,133           10,599       7,133
Evaluation & studies:
TAM4U proj.opn                        470         317              794        534            1,265         851
Grad.schol Dev support prog.            0           0              601        405              601         405
Inst Selfatudy/peer valid.              0           0             428         267              428         267
External proj.evaluation.               0           0              434        292              434         292
Tracer study                            0           0               92         55               92          55
Project Management                        0           00                          0                0           0
Total for Element B             34,273     29,147           65,310      44,359           99,583      73,507
______     - - -- -         - - - -- -  -- -- - -        -- -- - -   - -- - - -



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Prolect Costs by Source of Finance and Implementation Unit
COSTS
GOI financed                  IBRD financed                   TOTAL
Category                (Rp.million)(USS '000)        (Rp.million)(USS '000)        (Rp.million)(US$ '000)
Element C
Civil works                             2,512       1,447             4,695       2,704             7,207       4,152
Furniture/books/equipment:
Books                                   0           0            1,025         603             1,025          603
Furniture                            158           87            1,040         573             1,199          661
Equipment                              21          12            1,330          783            1,351          795
TechnLcal Assistance                        0           0               379         228               379         228
(local training)
Project Management                          0           0               310         188               310         188
Total for Element C               2,691       1,547             8,781       5,080            11,472       6,627
Summarv of Costs of Elements A. B and C
COSTS
GOI financed                  IBRD financed                   TOTAL
Category                (Rp.million)(USS '000)        (Rp.million)(US$ '000)        (Rp.million)(US$ '000)
Civil Works                            43,660      37,168           28,975       20,123           72,635       57,291
Furniture,books,equipment               3,849       2,300           45,154       28,538           49,003       30,838
Technical assistance:
Fellowships                             403         271           28,370      19,092            28,773      19,363
In-country training                  2,462        1,539            3,346       2,048             5,807       3,5e6
Specialist se-vtces                       0           0           10,599        7,133           10,599        7,133
Evaluation and studies                  470         317            2,349        1,554            2,819        1,871
Project management                          0           0             1,113         649             1,113         649
TOTAL A, B & C                   50,844      41,594           119,905      79,136           170,749    120,730
Source: PIUs, Second Teacher Training Project, MOEC and Loan Department, IBRD
NOTE: In the conversion of currencies, the averages of exchange rates prevailing at the time of
actual payments for each cstegory were used.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 2101-IND)
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING SCHOOLS (SPGs and SGOs) SUPPORTED UNDER THE PROJECT
Appraisal
estimates      Actual at                                               Matching
------------  completion                         Enrollment             enroll-
Standard  -----------    Type    ---------------------------  ment   Current
Typesize in   TypeSize in        of                        Increase/   goal   Status
No.          Location          /a  sq. m      /a  sq. m      input      81/82  86/87 /b decrease(-) ( X ) O/V /c
I. General Primary Teacher Training Schools (SPGs):
1.    SPG Lubuk Alung           D     1406    D      1406   New site       396      o36      240        265       0
2.    SPG Padang II             B     3026    D      1406   New site       399      936      537        390       V
3.    SPG Painan                D     1406    D      1406   New site       321      473      152        197       0
4.    SPG Solok                 C     1900    C      1900   New site       388      519      131        108       V
5.    SPG Tambun                C      1900    C     1900   New site       817      930      113        194       0
6.    SPG Lubang Buaya          C     1900    C      1900   Expansion    576        830      254        173       V
7.    SPG Kebon Jeruk           B     3026    B      3026   Expansion    725        836      111         87       V
8.    SPG Bandengan Utara       C      1900   Dropped because it was realized existing needs are being met   -
9.    SPG Hallmun               D     1406    C      2006   Expanslon    550        722      172        150       V
10.   SPG Sinjai                C     1900    D      1406   New slte       388      427       39        178       0
11.   SPG Watansopeng           D     1406    D      1406   New site       310      418      108        17'4      V
12.   SPG Pattalasang           C     1900    C        784   Expansion    239       358      119         75       0
13.   SPG Majene                C     1900    D      1406   New site       491      464      -27        193       V
14.   SPG Palopo                C     1900    D      1406   New site       539      784      245        327       V
15.   SPG Ciamis                B     3026    C      1900   New site       998      904      -94        188       0
16.   SPG Bogem                 D     1406    D      1400   New slte       512      468      -44        195       0
17.   SPG Kalianda              C     1900    C      1900   New site       538      168     -370         35       V
18.   SPG Manna                 D     1406    D      1406   New site       234      356      122        148       0
19.   SPG Kolaka                D     1406    D      1406   New site       107      332      225        138       0
20.   SPG Raha                  C     1900    D       1406   New site      104      319      215        133       0
21.   SPG Limboto               C     1900    C      1900   New site       363      707      344        147       0
22.   SPG Kotamubago            C     1900    C      1900   New site       339      544      205        113       V
23.   SPG Tahuna                D     1406    D      1406   New site       361      366        5        153       V
24.   SPG Bondowoso             D     1406    D      1406   New slte       532      434      -98        181       0
25.   SPG Luwuk                 D     1406    D      1406   New site       300      443      143        185       0
26.   SPG Buol                  D     1406    D      1406   New slte       278      367       89        153       0
27.   SPG Mempawah              D     1406    D      1406   New site       344      373       29        155       0
28.   SPG Sintang               D     1406    D      1406   New site       329      361       32        150       V
29.   SPG Sanggau               D     1406    D      1406   New slte       269      351       82        146       0
30.   SPG Ketapang              D     1406    D      1406   New site       298      432      134        180       0
31.   SPG Buntok                D     1406    D      1406   New site       241      262       21        109       V
32.   SPG Sampit                D     1406    D      1406   New site       213      336      123        140       V
33.   SPG Kuala Kapuas          D     1406    D      1406   New site       259      454      195        189       0
34.   SPG Banjarnegara          D     1406    D      1406   Expansion    689        571     -118        238       0
35.   SPG Kebumen               B     3026    B      3026   New site       547      534      -13         56       V
36.   SPG Wonoglri              D     1406    C      1900   New site       770     537      -233        112       0
37.   SPG Brebes                B     3026    B      3026   New site       798      724      -74         75       V
38.   SPG Blora                 C     1900    C      1900   New site       662      636      -26        133       0
39.   SPG Nganjuk               B     3026    C      1900   New site       782      467     -315         97       0
40.   SPG Wonosobo              C     1900    D      1406   New site       336      298      -38        124       0
41.   SPG Magelang              B     3026    B      3026   New site       414      492       78         51       0
42.   SPG Demak                 C     1900    C      1900   New site       447      468       21         9a       0
43.   SPG Pacitan               D      1406    D     1406   New site       613      441     -172        184       0
44.   SPG Rembang               B      3026    B      3026   New site      487      583        96        61       V
45.   SPG Cilacap               D      1406    D      1406   New site      478      450      -28        188       V
46.   SPG Surabaya II           A      4118    A     4118   Expansion    460        437      -23         30       V
47.   SPG Sukoharjo             C     1900    D      1406   New slte       645      676       31        282       0
48.   SPG Slawi                 C      1900    D     1406   New site       798      676     -122        282       V
49.   SPG Klungkung             C     1900    C      1900   New site       630      543      -87        113       0
50.   SPG Sengkang              B     3026    D      1406   Expansion    534        540        6        225       0
51.   SPG Tanjung Pinang        C      1900    C     1900   New site       410      666      256        139       V
52.   SPG Sungai Penuh          D     1406    D      1406   New sLte       464      613      149        255       0
53.   SPG Pangkal Pinang        C     1900    C      1900   New site       414      487       73        101       V
54.   SPG Jeneponto             C     1900    D       1401   New site      217      295        78       123       V
55.   SPG Bangkalan             D     1406    D       1406   New site      481      426      -55        178       0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__-----------------------__------



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Appraisal
estimates     Actual at                                             Matching
------------  completion                       Er.rollment           enroll-
Standard  ------------    Type    ---------------------------  ment
Typesize in   Type  Size        of                       Increase    goal   Status
No.      Name of school       /a  sq. m      /a  Sq. M     input      81/82  86/87 /b Decrease(-) ( X ) O/V /c
56.   SPG Takengon             D     1406    D      1406   New site      279     442       163       184      V
57.   SPG Tual (Ambon)         C     1900    D      1406   New site      210     368       158       153      V
58.   SPG Selong               D     1406    D      1406   New site      521     482       -39       201      V
59.   SPG Amuntai              D     1406    D      1406   New site      347     251       -96       105      V
60.   SPG Dilli                D     1406    D      1406   Expansion    266      360        94       150      V
TOTAL:  Type A            1    4118     1    4118                              Refunctionaliz 0   =      31
Type B           9   27234      5   15130                             Retained for   V   =       28
Type C          22   61800    16   28891                                 Teacher Training
Type D          28   39368    37   52516
Total           60 112,520    59 100,655               26,457  29,773    3,316
II.  Primary Sports Teacher Training Schools (SGOs):
1.    SGO Bogor                      2214           2214   New site      247     576      329                 V
2.    SGO Wates                      2281           2281   New site      306     602      296                 V
3.    SGO Tegal                      1510           1510   New site      259     544      285                 V
4,    SGO Malang                     2281           2281   New site      264     591      327                 V
5.    SGO Padang                     2281           2283   New site      384    1106      722                 V
6.    SGO Pontianak                  1069           1069   New site      377     509      132                 V
7.    SGO Palangkaraya               1252           1252   Expansion    303      669      366                 V
8.    SGO Gorontalo                  1662           1662   Expansion    573      528      -43                 V
9.    SGO Poso                       1001           1001   Expansion    271      565      294                 V
10.   SGO Ujung Pandang               754            754   Expansion    359      709      350                 V
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----
TOTAL                   16,305        16,305               3,341   6,399    3,058        V  =    10
Source: Element A, Second Teacher Training Project, MOEC
la Enrollment by type of primary teacher training schools and number of needed facilities (SAR Table 3.3)
Type of primary teacher training school
A             B          C        D    Total
School enrollment              1440            960       480      240        -
Number of schools                 1              9        22        28      60
Number of facilities:
Classrooms                     27             15         9        5
Science laboratory              3              2         1        1
Observation/demonst.            2              2         1         1
Workshops                       3              2         1        1
Library                         1              1         1        1
Administration                  1              1         1         1
Staffroom                       1              1         1        1
lb  The latest enrollment data available for primary teacher tralning is 1986/87 because no new
entrants were enrolled during 1988-90 due to the Government's decision to raise the level of
training from senior secondary to post-secondary level.
/c 0 - Refunctionalized as senior secondary schools.
V - Retained for the new D2 pre-service program.
--  - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -- - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - -



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES CIKIP/FKIPs)
ENROLLMENTS (1980181-1989/90)
Appraisal        1986/87                1997/88              1988/89              1989/90
Targets    -----------------  -----------------  -----------------  -----------------
Institution            (1988/89)       So        Si          so        Si         SO        Si         So        Si
1.  IKIP Medan                  8,000       5,225    5,675       3,698    5,392       3,316    4,588       2,841    5,671
2.  IKIP Padang                 8,300       4,734    6,325       4,332    6,073       3,983    6,175       2,606    6,160
3.  IKIP Jakarta                7,000       3,397    7,259       2,895    7,222       2,218    7,238       1,381    7,729
4.  IKIP Bandung               11,000       4,709    8,778       4,260    7,861       3,918    7,824       3,675    7,726
5.  IKIP Semarang               6,400       4,796    4,847       4,721    4,807       4,027    4,776       3,419    4,884
6.  IKIP Yogyakarta            10,000       3,397    9,987       3,653    9,620       3,472    9,323       2,834    9,389
7.  IRIP Surabaya               6,800       4,279    5,813       3,694    6,281       3,505    6,605       3,072    6,464
8.  IKIP Malang                 6,500       3,151    5,259       3,023    5,492       2,666    5,786       2,287    5,873
9.  IKIP Ujung Pandang          8,200       3,469    7,397       3,640    7,132       3,506    6,744       3,136    6,247
10.  FKIP Univ. Udayana /a    1,000          1,276   11,729       1,510   12,083       1,519   13,473       1,308   13,223
11.  FKIP Univ.SLliwangi         1,000        -          489        159       343        305       287         254       449
TOTAL                     74,200       38,433   73,558    35,585   72,306    32,435   72,819    26,813   73,815
TOTAL (SO+Sl) /b          74,200                98,991                94,891               92,254               87,628
Source: Element B, Second Teacher Training Project, MOEC
/a Bali TTC was originally planned to be established with an enrollment of 1,000, but partly
because the regional trainLag center scheme ceased and partly there was disagreement between
the central and local governments, University of Udayana was expanded instead. Therefore, the
enrollment figure (1980/81) of University of Udayana was not included in the SAR figures.
Accordingly, the enrollments (13,000) of University of Udayana should be excluded from the
current enrollments of the 11 project colleges when comparing it with the SAR estimates.
L These totals exclude the enrollment figures of Unlversity of Udayana (13,000).
NOTE: S1 - 4-year degree program.
SO - Non-degree program (these programs are gradually being reduced.)



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
GRADUATES OF SO AND Si PROGRAMS BY PROGRAMS OF STUDY (1989/90)
Program                                                 Progran
Institution           so        Si                     Institution            So        Si
1. IRIP Medan             236       513                7. IKIP Surabaya           294       593
FIP                      0        62                   FIP                       2        86
FPBS                    71        39                   FPBS                     12        88
FPIPS                   85       197                   FPIPS                   157       208
FPMIPA                  29        86                   FPMIPA                   57        88
FPTK                    24        57                   FPTK                     61       101
FPOK                    27        72                   FPOK                      5        22
2. IRIP Padang            470       476                8. IKIP Malang             160       526
FIP                     15        62                   PIP                       1       107
FPBS                    98        48                   FPBS                     15        58
FPIPS                  158       105                   FPIPS                    48       206
FPMIPA                 137        57                   FPMIPA                   82       124
FPTK                    24       148                   FPTR                     14        31
FPOK                    38        56                   FPOK
3. IKIP Jakarta         1,141     1,145                9. IKIP Ujung Pandang    1,207     1,294
FIP                     18       274                   FIP                      90       231
FPBS                   258       179                   FPBS                    314       190
FPIPS                  344       324                   FPIPS                   288       363
FPMIPA                 180       106                   FPMIPA                  256       181
FPTK                   274       170                   FPTK                    131       202
FPOK                    67        92                   FPO0t                   128       127
4. IKIP Bandung         1,683     1,368               10. FKIP Univ. Udayana      421       578
FIP                     53       268
FPBS                   480       271               11. FKIP Univ. Silivangi    121       145
FPIPS                  364       405
FPMIPA                 448       207
FPTK                   221       105               ------------------------------------------
FPOK                   117       112
5. IKIP Semarang        1,823       982
FIP                     19        97               TOTAL:
FPBS                   421       140                   PIP                     298     1,333
FPIPS                  451       284                   FPBS                  2,058     1,179
PPMIPA                 378       161                   FPIPS                 2,190     2,272
FPTK                   430       151                   FPMIPA                1,870     1,205
FPOR                   124       149                   FPTK                  1,230     1,118
FPOR                    625       707
6. IKIP Yogyakarta      1,257       917
PIP                    100       146                   FRIPs                   542       723
FPBS                   389       166
FPIPS                  295       180                   Giand Total           8,813     8,537
FPMIPA                 303       195                                       --------    --------
FPTK                    51       153
PPOK                   119        77
---------------------------------------------------------------------______--__----------__________
Source: Element B, Second Tencher Training Project, MOEC



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
The faculties and their departments:
Abbreviation                   Faculty                                         Subject Areas
FIP                 Faculty of Education                 Nonformal/out-of-school education, Special education,
Guidance and counseling, Early childhood education,
Curriculum and instructional technology, Educational
administration, Psychology and sociology of education
FPBS                Faculty of Language and Arts         Indonesian language education, English language
Education                            education, Foreign language education, Regional
language education, Painting and creative ar:s education,
Drama and music education
FPMIPA              Faculty of Mathematics and           Mathematics education, Physics education, Chemistry
Science Education                    education, Biology education
FPIPS               Faculty of Social Science            Pancasila moral education, Geography education, History
Education                            education, Business education
FPTK                Faculty of Technical Studies         Mechanical engineering education, Electrical engineering
education, Chemical engineering education, Civil
engineering education, Automotive mechanics education,
Home economics education
FPOK                Faculty of Sports and Health         Sports education, Health and recreation, Coaching
Education



ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Some Areas Needing Special Attention
In view of the ongoing reorganization of teacher education in
Indonesia, it is recommended that special attention be given in future projects
to the following:
(a) A large number of teacher educators, managers and administrators of
primary and secondary teacher training, whose qualifications have been
raised and upgraded through overseas and inservice training, should
play a significant role in planning and developing teacher training
activities not only at the central but also at regional and sub-
regional levels.
(b) A number of teaching-learning materials, course and instructional
materials developed under the project should be used rather than
undertaking new reviews. This is particularly important since
availability of pedagogical books and materials in Bahasa Indonesia is
very limited. Also, measures should be taken to increase the English
proficiency of teaching staff to enable them to utilize the imported
reference and library books provided to project institutions.
(c) Various inservice training programs for teaching-learning processes for
both primary and secondary teacher training, initiated under the Frist
Teacher Training Project and continued under this project, should be
reinforced in the new system. The PPPGs are important resources for
inservice teacher education while BPGs have not, thus far, made
significant contributions. The roles of PPPGs and BPGs, and their
interaction with the Curriculum Development Center, Teacher Training
Institutions and teachers at the school level should be reviewed and
redefined to fit the new organization of teacher education and to
better respond to integrated quality education needs.
(d) It is important for MOEC to review the structure and programs of
IKIPs/FKIPs in order to better respond to the changing demands for new
secondary (junior and senior) teachers and ensure that only persons
with the requisite knowledge and experience are involved in teacher
training. /l
/1   It is important for teacher educators to have, in addition to academic
qualifications, teaching experience to be effective in improving teaching
quality. Therefore, MOEC may wish to review the policy and methods of
appointment of teacher educators, drawing upon key and experienced
teachers, to ensure that teaching experience becomes part of the selection
process and simultaneously to provide present teacher trainers with
opportunities to gain actual teaching experience.



