Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3214-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
February 16, 1982
T'his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performence of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlc authboitio.n.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rp 625
Rp 100        =  US$0.16
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)  =  1,000 grams = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton     =  1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)   =  10,000 square meters (sq m) = 2.47 acres
1 meter (m)      =  39.37 inches
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS    - National Planning Agency
BP3K        - Office of Educational and Cultural Research and
Development, Ministry of Education and Culture
DGHE        - Directorate General of Higher Education
GOI         - Government of Indonesia
ICB         - International Competitive Bidding
INPRES      - Special Development Budget for Constructing Rural
Social Services
MEC         - Ministry of Education and Culture
ODA         - Official Development Assistance
REPELITA    - National Development Plan
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:        The Ministry of Education and Culture
Amount:             $80 million
Terms:              20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 11.6% per annum.
Project
Description:      The project seeks to improve the skills, competence
and effectiveness of the educational staff involved
in primary and secondary education. It would assist the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) to: (a) improve the quality
of primary and secondary teacher education; (b) achieve
balance between demand and supply of primary and
secondary teachers; (c) improve the quality and quantity
of special education; (d) raise the quality of preservice
and inservice teacher training; and (e) improve and
expand the training of educational administrators.
The project includes the following components:
(a) Preservice training of primary teachers (through
assistance to general primary teacher training schools),
secondary teachers (through assistance to secondary
teacher training colleges), and special education teachers
(through assistance to special education teacher training
colleges); (b) Inservice training of primary and secondary
teachers (through national subject matter centers and
regional inservice training centers); (c) Training in
educational administration; and (d) Studies and special
programs.
Potential project risks include slow implementation
resulting from the difficulty of administering the large
number of construction sites and of fellowships and the
possibility that GOI may resort to crash remedies if
faced with a critical shortage of teachers. It is hoped
that the experience gained in the first Teacher Training
Project, as well as the improved implementation structure
and high level of specialist services proposed, will
reduce the first risk and that accelerated implementation
of the project and the various studies and strategies
proposed under the project will reduce the second.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
($ million) -…----
Primary Teacher Training                   15.8        17.9         33.7
Secondary Teacher Training                 17.4        21.7         39.1
Special Education Teacher Training          7.6         7.0         14.6
Inservice Training                          4.7         3.6          8.3
Education Administration Training            2.0        2.2          4.2
Evaluation and Preparation for
Future Projects                           0.2         2.6          2.8
Subtotal                              47.7        55.0        102.7
Contingencies:
Physical                                  4.4         5.4          9.9
Price                                    17.7        19.6         37.4
Total Cost /1                         70.0        80.0        150.0
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
…----  ($ million) -----
IBRD                                           -       80.0         80.0
Government                                  70.0           -        70.0
Total                                 70.0        80.0        150.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Annual                                  2.0   5.0  10.0  22.0  23.0  18.0
Cumulative                              2.0   7.0  17.0  39.0  62.0  80.0
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 3647-IND, dated February 16, 1982
/1 Totals have been rounded.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A SECOND TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $80 million to help finance
a Second Teacher Training Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 147 mil-
lion people /1 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The population
growth rate between 1971 and 1980 was 2.3% per annum. The population density
exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the population live, but
averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of the country; 80% of the
population live in rural areas. GNP per capita is estimated to be $430./2
4.        The Indonesian economy has a highly diversified resource base, with
plentiful primary energy resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber
potential and a developed system of agricultural commodity production and
export. However, the dominant feature of the 1970s has been the rise to
prominence of the oil sector. Net oil exports rose from $0.6 billion in
1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81, at which time the oil sector accounted
/1 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/2 Estimate for 1980.



- 2 -
for almost 70% of both exports and Central Government domestic revenues. As a
consequence the country s resource position has been highly sensitive to terms
of trade developments. Following the second oil price hike a resource deficit
turned into a substantial surplus (of $3.6 billion in 1980/81) and the current
account moved into surplus for the first time in two decades. In 1981/82
declining real oil prices, combined with weak prices for other commodities and
the recession in OECD countries, contributed to a reversal of this position,
with a resource deficit estimated at $0.8 billion. The effects of these
dramatic changes are still working their way through the system. However, the
infusion of foreign exchange into the economy has certainly contributed to a
highly favorable growth performance, despite weak production linkages between
the oil enclave and the rest of the economy. A sustained growth rate of
almost 8% per annum for over a decade is higher than that of any other
low-income country. While oil has played an important part, it should be
stressed that the initial impetus to this growth occurred in the period of
recovery from the severe dislocation of the 1960s. The Government of
Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore and then maintain macro-
economic stability, liberalize the economy and provide incentives for
investment. There was a major rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure,
and the investment rate doubled to 18% of GDP. Throughout the period growth
has been well diversified, with sectoral growth rates varying from 4% per
annum in agriculture to 12% per annum in manufacturing and construction.
However, despite this favorable growth performance, the economy is still
underdeveloped, with a share of manufacturing in GDP of less than 10%, and a
persistent deficit on the nonoil current account.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country. It is estimated that almost 50%
of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, but a
widening in rural/urban disparities. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large proportion
of the population. Here the number in poverty appears to have increased to
almost 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes. Total employment has been increasing at 3% p.a. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion. In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agricul-
ture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period. Because



- 3 -
the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby encour-
aging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance for
the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.        Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Universal
primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult literacy
rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-income coun-
tries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively less well-
developed, and this has been a major factor behind the current shortage of
skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic indicators, there
have been significant declines in both crude birth and death rates. An effec-
tive family planning program helped reduce fertility rates on Java and Bali,
while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate between 1960 and 1979 was only
exceeded by seven developing countries. However, the level of provision of
services remains inadequate, and only 12% of the population has access to safe
water, compared with 29% for all low-income countries.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. This will require two broad types of policy measure. First, there
is a need for substantial investments in economic and social infrastructure.
Increasing the capacity of the transport network and electric power system
will be critical to sustain the rapidly expanding demands of the productive
sectors of the economy. Second, this must be complemented by improvements in
the policy environment to provide an appropriate incentive structure for
private sector investment. This is illustrated for the major economic
sectors.
9.        In the industrial sector, GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments; in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for both
employment and exports is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. The 1978
devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved the
profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export industries.
GOI is now backing this with a general review of the trade regime, with a view
to removing the distortions due to the wide variation in rates of effective
protection, and a strong push for the expansion of non-oil exports, including
financing arrangements, improved ports procedures, export processing



- 4 -
zones and a system of export certificates (duty rebates). However, the
private sector also suffers from significant domestic constraints to its
expansion, notably a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of
investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly developed financial system.
Further policy reforms to create an environment conducive to private
investment are needed to alleviate these constraints.
10.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia also faces a
potentially serious structural energy problem. Oil and gas now account for
98% of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly.  If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
earnings from the oil sector in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify
energy usage, in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower
and geothermal potential. This will require both a major investment program
in this decade and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and more
efficient energy use. In January 1982 domestic oil prices were increased by
over 60%. This was a decisive step toward the reduction of a major
distortion in the economy; it followed similar increase of about 40% in May
1980 and demonstrated the GOI's commitment to tackle this politically
difficult issue. However, domestic prices are still only about 55% of the
opportunity cost on average, and price relativities between products diverge
widely from those prevailing on the international market.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export reve-
nue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-oil exports), food production and
employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record level of
about 22 million tons in 1981, compared with 13 million a decade earlier,
largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new agricultural
technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery of adequate seeds
and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure, especially
irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be the
main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very
old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization of
distribution and marketing.
12.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical. The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, and in recent
years GOI has clearly demonstrated its strong commitment to the expansion of
the system. However, the high rates of unemployment amongst secondary school
leavers suggest there may be problems of mismatch between supply and demand at
some levels. In the short run there is scope for better utilization of
existing manpower through stopgap training schemes, while available foreign
exchange resources could be used to finance fellowships abroad and, in the



interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is also a strong justification for
the use of incremental resources in the health sector. However, increased
outlays on health infrastructure will have to be complemented by the develop-
ment of innovative approaches to identifying and tackling health problems,
involving the participation of local communities. The successful family
planning program provides a good model.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
13.       The dramatic increase of oil revenues in the 1970s allowed a large
expansion in GOI's expenditure including subsidies (especially on petroleum
products) and resulted in a relative neglect of the nonoil tax effort; non-
oil taxes contributed less than 9% of total non-mining GDP in 1980/81. The
constancy of oil prices in 1981-82 and the consequent real decline in
revenues, suddenly brought forward the problem of domestic resource
mobilization, at a time of rapidly expanding development finance requirements.
The two major policy measures required are a steady rise in domestic oil
prices to reflect opportunity cost, and an improvement in the tax effort. The
1982/83 budget represents a significant effort in these directions. First,
the budgetary subsidy on petroleum products has been reduced from an annual
level of over $3 billion to less than $1.5 billion. Second, domestic nonoil
tax revenues have been budgeted to increase by over 15% in real terms, with
the major emphasis on improved administration and collection procedures.
14.        Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost
$15 billion at the end of 1980; while undisbursed debt amounted to an
additional $9 billion. On the basis of present projections of development
financing requirements and external resources deficits, there will be a
continued need for significant inflows of foreign savings in the 1980s. The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance (ODA), to the country.
However during the 1970s Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transforma-
tion in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on
official concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade. The fact that
Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s, and the
efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of how far
the country has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity depends on
commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and this makes
Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to price developments in international
markets. The implication is that debt utilization should remain very prudent,
and that there will be a continued justification for official debt of long
maturities and fixed interest in the 1980s. Present projections suggest that
Indonesia's financing requirements can be met with the debt service ratio
remaining below 20% throughout the decade.



- 6 -
pART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of September 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 59 Bank loans amounting to $3,814.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%, respec-
tively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
17.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part 1, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry,,infrastructure, treecrop development and human
resources development. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Rural Roads
Development Project (No. P-3174-IND) circulated under cover of R81-324,
dated December 14, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on
January 12, 1982.



- 7 -
18.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned ir the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned to follow
this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, new sector work and
continued lending will concentrate on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy
base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and
treecrops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services,
in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will
increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative
low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will focus on
improving the working of the whole health care system at the level of a
specific province.
19.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to be
related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both mana-
gerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and
the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited
Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying
budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted
formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general and project-
specific problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement
seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981. As a
consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken several measures to
streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special
effort to identify problems in the construction industry with a view to
developing appropriate remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the
domestic contracting have been identified as one of the major causes of
implementation problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications are that, as
a result of these efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected
in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $277.8 million
in FY80, and to $373.5 million in FY81. While it is important that the Bank
and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are encouraging.
20.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.



- 8 -
21.       The proposed project constitutes the sixth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. The Jakarta Cikampek
Highway, Eleventh Power, Second Seeds, Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport and Rural Roads Development projects have already been approved by
the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Board documents for a proposed
Second Textbook project are being circulated to the Executive Directors
simultaneously with this proposal. Projects under advanced stage of prepara-
tion and appraisal include the Sixteenth Irrigation, East Java Province
Irrigation, the National Fertilizer Distribution and Sixth Nucleus Estates
projects.
PART III - TEACHER TRAINING
Background
22.       The rapid GDP growth experienced by Indonesia has put severe strains
on the country's limited skilled manpower which in turn has emerged as a
critical constraint to further growth. While GOI achieved notable successes
during the 1970s by increasing the primary enrollment rate to 94% as a result
of creating five million new primary school places, and expanding secondary
enrollment from less than two million to nearly three million, Indonesia's
secondary and higher education systems remain inadequate for its development
needs. Although Indonesia's per capita income is at the top of the low income
countries, its secondary enrollment ratio of 21% of the relevant age cohort
remained fairly constant throughout the 1970s and is below the 24% average for
this group. More significantly, in spite of the rapid expansion of the past
decade, higher education enrollment in Indonesia totals only 2% of the
population between ages 20-24, compared to 4% for other low income countries.
These shortfalls are compounded by growing evidence that the overall quality
of the education system has suffered during its post-independence expansion.
Reflecting these problems, there is a need for large increases in GOI
allocations to the education system and special measures to alleviate manpower
constraints. There is a particular need to focus attention on qualitative
improvement, especially on improved teacher training.
Organization of Teacher Training
23.       Preservice Teacher Training.  Preservice training of primary
teachers is conducted in over 200 public and 300 private secondary schools
for teacher training covering grades 10-12. There is a separate system of
58 schools for training of sports teachers for primary schools which offer a
three-year curriculum covering grades 10-12. Preservice training for
secondary teachers is conducted at teacher training colleges. Teacher
training for special education is conducted in four institutions which
produce 480 teachers annually from their two-year postsecondary program.
24.       Inservice Teacher Training.  There are three types of inservice
training for school teachers: (a) refresher programs, which provide
information and training in line with recent developments in curricula,
learning materials and methodology; (b) qualification programs to help



unqualified or underqualified teachers to obtain formal qualification; and
(c) -rograms aimed at upgrading qualified educational personnel so that they
can be promoted.
25.       Educational Administration.  The only institution providing train-
ing for administrative staff in the education sector is the recently estab-
lished Unit for Educational Administration (discussed in detail in para.
43).
Issues Facing Teacher Training
26.       The main problems in education which this proposed project seeks
to correct are: (a) imbalance between supply and demand for teachers and
poor internal efficiency in preservice teacher training; (b) low quantity
and quality of training for special education; (c) inadequate system of
inservice training; and (d) lack of systematic preservice training of
administrators. Some of the problems are related to the structure of
teacher training. Although the best resources for teacher training are
located at the 12 secondary teacher training colleges and 18 education
faculties of universities under the Directorate General for Higher Education
(DGHE), these are separate in organizational structure from the teacher
training schools under the Directorate General for Primary and Secondary
Education. Therefore, while inservice training centers are located near
teacher training colleges and universities and are expected to receive
assistance from college staff, a direct line relationship is precluded by
organizational structure. Ideally, teacher training schools should be
branches of colleges or education faculties and together they should provide
all the inservice activities needed. GOI, with Bank assistance under the
Third and Fifth Education Projects (Cr. 387-IND and Ln. 1237-IND), has taken
initial steps toward an improved structure and the continuing and
strengthening of this process will form an important part of this and future
Bank-assisted projects in teacher training. Organizational issues are a
specific focus of one of the studies proposed under this project (para. 40).
27.       At the primary level the quality of training is a key concern.  To
address this issue GOI has made proposals to consolidate the public primary
teacher training schools and discontinue about half of the private training
schools. The reduced numbers of schools would be adequate to produce the
required numbers of new primary teachers and quality would be improved
because the schools would be larger and better endowed with facilities,
equipment, materials and staff.
28.       At the secondary level the quantity of school teachers is a key
constraint: projected demand for new lower secondary teachers during the
1980s and 1990s exceeds present output of colleges by about 25%. To
overcome this shortfall, the capacity of the colleges must be increased
and/or their internal efficiency improved.



- 10 -
29.       There are 217 special education schools for handicapped children
where GOI has specified five types of disabilities: (a) blind; (b) deaf;
(c) mentally retarded; (d) physically handicapped; and (e) emotionally
disturbed. All five categories of children are served by the special
education schools and GOI policy requires as many of these handicapped
children to be absorbed into regular classrooms as possible. Although many
issues face GOI in respect to special education, the obvious inadequacy of
the present system relative to needs is the most critical. As expanding the
system of special education must be balanced against other priority needs in
the education sector, a thorough review of the requirements for special
education is urgent, including a survey of the incidence of handicaps by
province or district, and development of plans for establishment of a
complete system during the next two decades. In view of these concerns and
GOI's desire for Bank assistance in developing an appropriate long-term
strategy for special education, financing for a study to devise an
investment strategy for special education is included in the proposed
project. As this would be the first major Bank effort in the area of
special education, a special consultant team visited Indonesia in August
1981 to review GOI plans in detail and assess the priority of the
investments proposed. This mission confirmed that the need for more
teachers is particularly urgent and would be an inevitable consequence of
whatever long-term programs emerge from the strategy study.
30.       Education is supervised at the school, subdistrict, district and
provincial level. Each school has a headmaster and larger secondary schools
have deputies. The subdistrict is responsible for the primary school but
the district is the smallest unit responsible for the complete range or
educational services (grades 1-12). At the provincial level there is a full
educational bureaucracy supervising and coordinating the work of the compo-
nents in each district. The Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) has
overall responsibility at the national level and the total number of persons
involved in educational administration is more than 130,000. Improved
leadership provided by a well-trained headmaster of a primary or secondary
school should greatly enhance the performance of the education system.
Administration above the school level also merits special attention in
training programs. More responsibilities should be shifted downward in the
organizational pyramid to place the decisions closer to those affected and
to give higher levels, provincial and national, more time to address policy
matters.
31.       GOI is contemplating two important policy changes which will
directly affect teacher training. First the primary cycle is expected
to be reduced to five grades instead of six, and this first level would be
compulsory for all children. The intermediate years, grades 6, 7 and 8,
would then become part of basic education and grade 8 would eventually
become the universal enrollment target. The second policy change would move
primary teacher preservice training from the senior secondary school years
to a two-year postsecondary program. Project design must recognize these



- 11 -
possible changes. The proposed extension of basic education through
grade 8 appears desirable since finishers of these higher grades are far
better prepared for life than finishers of grades 5 or 6. In addition,
prevocational subjects could be covered in the middle grades since the
children are physically and psychologically more mature. The proposed
change in primary teacher training would have even greater benefits since
the students would have completed full academic secondary school and would
be older and better qualified when they enter training. These changes
would incur considerable costs but these would be offset by a better
prepared teacher force and improvements in basic education.
Bank Strategy in Education
32.       In view of the critical nature of the human resource constraint
facing Indonesia, the Bank is placing high priority on education. At the
project level the historical average of one education project per year will
increase to two. As Bank loans will still only comprise a small percentage
of total GOI investments in this sector, work will focus on improving the
managerial/administrative capacity of the specific agencies involved and
policy-oriented interventions. In addition to the project currently being
considered, projects are planned in higher education (with an emphasis on
science), agricultural staff training and industrial training, including
construction. Assistance to teacher training and for improvment of
instructional materials and textbooks will be part of an overall strategy to
improve quality in primary and secondary schools. To complement and provide
the necessary backup for these lending activities a significant education
sector work program has been initiated.
Past Bank Participation in Education Development
33.       This is the eleventh education project in Indonesia.  Projects I,
II and IV (Cr. 219-IND, Cr. 288-IND and Ln. 1237-IND) dealt with vocational
education, and Projects VII, VIII and IX (Cr. 869-IND and Loans 1692,
1904-IND) with management, agricultural training and higher education. The
four remaining projects address quantitative expansion and qualitative
improvement of basic education. Project VI (Ln. 1486-IND) concentrates on
adult and nonformal education, Project III (Cr. 387-IND) assisted the
development, production and distribution of 180 million textbooks for upper
primary grades and complementary teacher training in their use and the
proposed Second Textbook Project will continue the efforts in textbook
development. The process of upgrading the system of teacher training was
begun in Project V, i.e., the first Teacher Training Project (Ln. 1433-IND).
The initial teacher training project included training of teacher educators
in accordance with new curricula and improved teaching methods. Results
obtained during the first three years of operation of Project I led to a GOI
request for similar assistance to cover the teacher training system more
fully.



- 12 -
34.       To date, two Project Performance Audit Reports have been prepared
on education projects in Indonesia. One (No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980,
SecM80-440), reviews performance on the First Education Project (Cr. 219-
IND). This audit stressed the importance of including fellowships to train
teachers and school administrators, and the timely appointment of key staff
to project implementation units to ensure the success of the project. To
address these findings, this project provides for fellowships to train future
project staff and the early appointment of key personnel. The second Project
Performance Audit Report (No. 3058, dated June 30, 1980, SecM80-527), reviews
performance on the Second Education Project (Cr. 288-IND), and describes the
project as being successfully implemented. The major audit finding of
relevance is the need for more advanced project preparation. The current
project addresses this issue, as key project implementation staff have
already been appointed and site selection, sketch plans and equipment lists
were prepared prior to negotiations.
PART TV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project is based on governmental loan requests
submitted in April and August 1980. The project was prepared by GOI with
UNESCO assistance. It was preappraised in June/July 1980 and appraised in
March/April 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington from January 18 to 22,
1982 with the Indonesian delegation led by Prof. Dr. D.A. Tisna Amidjaja. A
Staff Appraisal Report CNc. 3647-IND) is bein, circulated separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Description
36.       In coordination with the ongoing first Teacher Training Project
and with the proposed second Textbook Project, the proposed project would
support GOI's long-range plans to improve the quality and increase the
capacity of the primary and secondary general education systems. Its
objectives are to achieve a balance between demand and supply of primary and
secondary teachers, improve the organization and quality of teacher
training, improve the quality and quantity of special education, raise the
quality, relevance and efficiency of inservice teacher training and improve
and expand the training of educational administrators.
37.       Specifically, the project would include:  (a) assistance to pre-
service training in general primary teacher schools, secondary teacher
colleges, and special education teacher colleges; (b) inservice training of
primary and secondary teachers; (c) training in educational administration;
and (d) studies and special programs. Improvement of teacher education is a
long-range task which will require a series of projects over the next decade
and beyond. The present project, the second in an anticipated series of
Bank efforts, would include both national and regional coverage. Two
components would be addressed on a national basis: special education and



- 13 -
educational administration training. The large components for preservice
teacher training would concentrate on areas with a prospective shortage of
teachers.
Preservice Training of Primary and Secondary Teachers
38.       Sixty primary teacher training schools would receive assistance in
construction and renovation, furniture, equipment and staff development. The
facilities provided would enable the project primary teacher training schools
to train 28,000 teachers in new teaching methods and would enable experimenta-
tion with new training techniques. Laboratories and workshops would be
designed to train students and teachers to prepare and use instructional
materials. In addition the project would provide assistance to ten primary
sports teacher training schools. These schools would be able to train
students and teachers in physical education in accordance with the new
curriculum utilizing modern teaching and training methods. The eventual
target would be the assignment of one trained sports teacher for every two
primary schools. To supplement these investments, the staff development
program begun under the first Teacher Training Project would be continued
under the proposed project. It would provide study tours in research and
evaluation in teacher education for one staff member from each of the
70 assisted schools and 48 master's degree fellowships for a special
leadership group for development of these schools. The staff development
program would be reinforced with provision of one advisor in the management of
teacher education for each region, for three project years.
39.       The project would also assist 10 existing and one new secondary
teacher training colleges through provision of expanded and improved physical
facilities and equipment supported by a concentrated staff development
program. Overall, 16,000 additional student spaces would be provided to
partially meet a growing demand for new secondary teachers. Emphasis in
equipment will be for improvement and expansion of the libraries of the 11
project colleges. Furthermore, a staff development program would enable 150
academic staff of the colleges to complete master-s-level programs and 100 to
complete doctoral-level programs. Fellowships would complement the staff
development program now underway in the first Teacher Training Project. In
view of the need for improved management at both primary and secondary teacher
training colleges, 33 study tours and fellowships are included for two
categories of staff: (a) study tours in student and space scheduling for two
persons (e.g., registrars, campus planners) from each project college; and (b)
master-s degrees in library science for one library staff of each project
college. In order to continue the staff development program of the first
Teacher Training Project, the proposed project would include a continuing
training program for staff of teacher training colleges which would
accommodate about 1,400 teacher training college staff in one-month seminars
twice during the project period. This program would also continue the
curriculum and development program of the first project. Specialist services
for the secondary teacher training college component would include: (a) teams
of national advisors in 14 subject areas related to teacher training as well
as curriculum and materials development for four project years; and



- 14 -
(b) specialists in college management, administration and planning of
teacher education. This program would also include scheduling and library
management.
40.       The combined primary and secondary preservice components would
include studies on the organization and operation of integrated preservice
teacher training, including, inter alia, the following four issues: (a) more
efficient operation of schools and colleges; (b) expansion of secondary
teacher training colleges; (c) integration of schools and colleges; and (d)
effects of the proposed restructuring of the education organization.
Agreement on the contents and schedule of these studies was reached during
negotiations. These studies will be completed by December 31, 1984 (Section
3.01(c) of draft Loan Agreement).
Special Education
41.       In addition to financing a national strategy paper on special
education (para. 29), the project would finance construction, furniture and
equipment for two new, and upgrading of four existing, colleges for special
education. These colleges would provide training for about 2,400 teachers.
In view of the nation's nearly total lack of adequately trained staff in
special education, a proportionally large fellowship and specialist services
program for staff of special education colleges is included. Fellowships
would also be provided for staff of the Director General for Primary and
Secondary Education and the Office of Educational and Cultural Research and
Development (BP3K) who provide leadership within NEC in special educati n-
The fellowship program would begin operation at the outset of cne pLuje. so
that newly trained leaders would be available when new expanded facilities
are ready for use. In the selection of fellows emphasis would be placed on
promising younger educators who would be able to serve for many years after
the project.  Specialist services would be provided for teams of specialists
covering the five categories of handicaps for the duration of the project,
and a special team to assist in the further development of the national
special education strategy during 1982/83.
Inservice Training
42.       In support of GOI's plan to establish an integrated inservice
teacher training system the project would finance construction, furniture
and equipment of three national subject matter centers, one for mathematics
in Yogyakarta, one for language in Jakarta and one for social studies,
including Pancasila,/l in Malang. Each center would have the capacity for
about 150 trainees and would include residential, teaching and service
facilities. The centers would then design and prepare inservice training
curricula in their subject matters in close cooperation with schools and
colleges and BP3K, prepare and develop learning materials
/1 Basic principles of the Indonesian society.



- 15 -
and ways of presentation, and instruct trainers who would be working in
regional centers and other inservice training centers. In addition, GOI's
plan for establishing a coordinated inservice teacher training system calls
for construction of six new regional inservice training centers. Two of
these, Menado and Ambon, would be assisted under the project to serve here-
tofore neglected regions of the country. Before additional centers are
constructed it will be important for GOI to develop a plan for integrated
inservice teacher training; such a plan would be financed under the project
and completed according to terms of reference and a timetable acceptable to
the Bank (Sector 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The project would
provide teaching facilities, service facilities, and housing for staff (chief
and four section heads) to enable the regional centers to conduct training of
teachers and administrators and provide assistance for decentralized training
activities carried out in local training centers, i.e., primary and lower
secondary school centers. A substantial technical assistance program
(fellowships and expert assistance) on a nationwide basis would be included
to train staff and assist in development of inservice training activities.
Doctoral-level programs in teacher education/materials development would be
provided to heads and deputy heads of the nine national subject matter
centers and master's-level programs in subject matter to the division heads
of each divisional and regional center. Three man-years of specialist
services in primary and secondary inservice training would also be provided.
Training in Educational Administration
43.       Until recently, Indonesia had no institution for training
administrative staff within the school sector. In view of the size of the
target group (over 130,000), and the importance of improving the quality of
this group, the project would assist GOI to improve and expand the newly
established Unit for Educational Administration as a national institution for
quality improvement of educational administrators from primary school
headmasters to MEC senior officials. The project would include financing for
construction of the Unit, furniture and equipment and related technical
assistance. The Unit, to be located near Jakarta, would be a fully
residential institution with a capacity for about 250 trainees. It would
develop training programs, methods and materials for educational
administrators, administrative school staff and educational officers for
trainers of decentralized school administration, evaluate training programs
and materials, and undertake research and development within the pedagogical/
administrative field.
Monitoring and Evaluation
44.       Building on the evaluation element started in the first Teacher
Training Project, GOI would establish monitoring and evaluation systems
covering both the project implementation process and the overall project
impact in relation to its immediate and long-term objectives. Topics



- 16 -
include: (a) numbers of teachers and administrators provided preservice and
inservice training under the project compared to preproject levels; (b)
knowledge, skills and attitudes of teachers before, during and after training;
(c) use of training by teachers in and outside the classrooms and administra-
tors in and outside their offices; (d) effects of training on pupil achieve-
ment, enrollment, attendance and attitude toward education; (e) effects of
improved system for guidance and placement of teachers (i.e., whether grad-
uates from preservice training institutions enter teaching); and (f) effects
of increased support of teachers through improved supervision programs.
Agreements have been reached with GOI that the scope and methods of project
monitoring and evaluation will be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Management and Implementation
45.       Project implementation would be based on the management structure
established under the first Teacher Training Project. This would be
strengthened by drawing upon experienced project staff in the Directorate of
Teacher Training under the Director General of Primary and Secondary Education
and the Directorate of Academic Affairs of the DGHE. Cohesion and coordina-
tion would be achieved by the establishment of a high-level Steering Council
and a working-level Coordinating Committee with a Project Secretariat
providing coordination. This organization would also liaise with the
Coordination Team for the Procurement of Infrastructure and Resources for
Formal Education established by the Ministerial Decree No. 0195/p/1980.
46.       The Steering Council is a high-level policy committee composed of
four director general-level personnel. The Project Coordinating Committee is
a working-level body. Members of this Committee will be appointed on an
ex-officio basis from the Bureau of Personnel, the Unit for Educational
Administration, the Directorate of Primary Education, the Directorate of
Teacher Training, the Directorate of Academic Affairs, and the Curriculum
Development Center. The Project Coordinating Secretariat would be a small
office manned by an executive officer and several support staff. This
Secretariat will prepare a composite implementation schedule and plan, liaise
with the Bank concerning all project components, collect implementation data
on all components and prepare periodic reports. This Secretariat would report
to the Project Coordinating Committee. Agreement was reached during
negotiations on the maintenance of the Steering Council, the Coordinating
Committee and the Project Coordinating Secretariat throughout the project
period (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Day-to-day management of project activities would be conducted by
project units in two directorates. The Directorate of Teacher Training
would be responsible for management of 60 primary teacher training schools,
10 primary sports teacher training schools, six special education teacher
training colleges, three national subject matter centers and two regional



- 17 -
inservice teacher training centers. This directorate would also be responsi-
ble for the Unit for Educational Administration which is administratively
under the Secretary General's office. The Directorate of Academic Affairs
would manage the largest component, the 11 secondary teacher training
colleges.
48.       In order to implement the project effectively, MEC would strengthen
two existing project units, one in the Directorate of Teacher Training and one
in the Directorate of Academic Affairs. These units are staffed with
professionals who have experience from the first Teacher Training Project.
Each unit would be headed by a director who also heads the related director-
ate. Implementation activities of each of the two project components would be
managed by an assistant director.  One or more officers would be appointed to
take charge of educational aspects of the project and the appointment of a
finance officer, a procurement officer, a project architect and a secretary
would complete the professional staff requirement.
49.       Since there will be an extensive program of technical assistance
under the project - 516 man-years of fellowships and 73 man-years of
specialist services planned for all project components - careful planning is
needed to permit synchronization with the physical implementation and the
launching of programs specified in the project. The success of the fellowship
programs depends on the selection procedures used to ensure recruitment and
subsequent placement of qualified candidates. To ensure a good start of this
program GOI has selected about 25% of project financed fellows to start in
1982. GOI would also select suitable organization(s) to recruit and place
specialists promptly at a reasonable cost to the project. Procedures,
criteria and timetables for selection of fellowship candidates as well as the
packaging, recruitment and assignment of specialist services were reviewed
during negotiations, and found acceptable (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at Rp 94 billion
or $150 million equivalent (including customs duties and taxes). Customs
duties and taxes amount to about 3% of total project cost, including
contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated at $80 million or
about 53% of total project costs. Physical contingencies represent 9.6%, and
price contingencies 36% of base costs. Local price increases are forecasted
to be 14% for 1982, 12% for 1983, and 10% in subsequent years.  Foreign price
increases are estimated at 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983-85, and 6% in
subsequent years. Specialist services costs are based on $6,700/man-month
inclusive of salaries, allowances and international air fares. Foreign
fellowship costs are estimated at $1,500/man-month and local fellowship costs
at $450/man-month. Of the total project cost of $150 million, the Bank would
finance $80 million, or 100% of the foreign exchange costs. GOI would provide
the remaining $70 million.



- 18 -
Procurement
51.       It is expected that civil works and equipment would be grouped to
form attractive bid packages. Those contracts for civil works bid packages
exceeding $1.0 million equivalent in estimated value and aggregating about
$15 million would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Contracts for all other civil works
bid packages would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding under
GOI procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for equipment bid packages
exceeding $160,000 equivalent estimated value would be awarded on the basis of
ICB. In bid comparison, local manufacturers would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% on the c.i.f. cost of equipment, or the existing customs duty,
whichever is lower. Equipment items which cannot be grouped to form bid
packages of $160,000 equivalent or more in estimated value could be awarded
without prior Bank review on the basis of local competitive bidding, under GOI
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank subject to an aggregate total
value of items so procured not exceeding $5.0 million equivalent. Miscellan-
eous equipment items in packages not exceeding $32,000 equivalent, and subject
to an aggregate total not exceeding $3.0 million equivalent, could be pur-
chased off-the-shelf on the basis of at least three price quotations (Schedule
4 to the draft Loan Agreement). Consultant services would be procured in
accordance with Bank Guidelines (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       Previous projects have experienced delays in implementation of their
educational programs because vital equipment was not delivered on time.
Well-planned phasing of equipment procurement for the 90 project institutions
is therefore necessary to ensure synchronization between equipment deliveries
and the completion of building facilities. Sophisticated equipment would need
special care in installation, usage and maintenance. During negotiations, GOI
agreed to make adequate provision for the installation of equipment procured
under the project (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursement
53.       The proposed loan of $80 million equivalent would be disbursed over
a period of six years. Disbursements would be made on the basis of: (a) 40%
of the cost of site development, buildings and associated professional
architectural services; (b) (i) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported
equipment and materials and of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipmentand materials; (ii) 70% of the cost of locally procured equipment and
materials; and (c) 100% of technical assistance, including contracts for
monitoring, evaluation, studies and preparation of future projects, but
excluding the cost of local program and curriculum development.
Accounts and Audit
54.       Project accounts would be maintained with accounting principles and
practices satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). During negotiations, GOI agreed to provide the Bank the annual
financial statements, audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the
Bank, within six months of the close of each fiscal year.



- 19 -
Benefits and Risks
55.       Five principal benefits are expected to result from the proposed
project: (a) enhanced quality in pre- and inservice primary and secondary
teacher training through improved facilities, equipment and staff development;
(b) expanded output of secondary teachers to meet expected significant
increases in demand through an addition of 16,000 student spaces in secondary
teacher training colleges; (c) provision of institutions in special education,
teacher training and educational administration to initiate the development,
improved and expanded systems in these areas; (d) further experimentation and
innovation in the design of inservice training with a view toward subsequent
project assistance; and (e) strategies for the improvement of the structure
and operation of institutions involved in educational training. One risk is
that the complexity and number of decisions to be made will delay
implementation. Offsetting this risk are the facts that the project has many
characteristics of a repeater project since many related activities were
conducted in the first Teacher Training Project and that most of the
implementation staff was involved in that project. In addition, the project
design includes (a) an improved implementation structure which more
realistically parallels government structure; and (b) a high level of
specialist services adequate to meet the demands of the study and the
experimental aspects of the project. Another related risk is that GOI, when
faced with a critical shortage of teachers, will proceed with crash remedies
inconsistent with this project. It is to be hoped that accelerated
implementation of the project and the various studies and strategies proposed
under the project will reduce pressures to do this.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
57.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 16, 1982
Washington, D.C.






- 20 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                        REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 104.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)la
TOTAL            1919.3                                           MOST RECENT       LOW ICIE           MIDDLE INCG
AGRICULTURAL      286.4                   1960  lb    1970 /b      ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        80.0       140.0            370.0             232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           130.1       128.4            237.1             499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (ThOUSANDS)      94680.0    116143.0          142870.0
URbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       14.6        17.1             19.8              17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                  219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                    388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACRED                              2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            49.3         60.5             74.4             153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         355.9        417.9            487.3             360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              40.7         44.0             40.8              37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                              56.2         53.5             56.3              59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                         3.1         2.5              2.9               3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.1         2.0              2.3               2.1                    2.3
URBAN                                    3.7         3.6              4.0               3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           46.7        40.8             36.2              27.7                   29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          24.8         17.7             13.3              10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.0         2.8              2.3               2.5                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..       181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..         0.2             27.1              20.4                   44.1
iFOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOU PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               93.0        102.0            103.0             107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        89.0         92.0            105.0              98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               41.0         41.0             47.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             6.0          6.0              6.0              14.2                   19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          31.2         20.4             13.7              14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTh (YEARS)         39.0         46.7             53.0              57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                159.0       126.0            120.0              89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          3.0             12.0              30.1                - 45.9
URBAN                                    ..         10.0             35.0              65.8                   68.0
RURAL                                    ..          1.0              6.0              20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         12.0             15.0              17.6                   53.4
URBAN                                    ..         50.0             60.0              71.0                   71.0
RURAL                                     ..         4.0              5.0               4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PEN PHYSICIAN              46778.7      26498.5          13644.4            3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              ..       7672.8           8851.9            6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                1364.1       1644.6           1606.0            1132.8                  588.5
URBAN                                 251.8           ..            697.3             322.3                  579.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..           3159.0           5600.5                  1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..             22.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF hOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   4.4          4.8
URBAN                                   4.9          5.3
RURAL                                   4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..          1.5
URBAN                                    ..          1.6
RURAL                                     ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINHS)
TOTAL                                     ..          ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..          ..



- 21-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHUET
INDONESIA                           REFERENCE GoWPS (WEIGITED AVRACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATEa
MOST RECENT       LOW INN4E          MIDDLE IhCCIQ
1960  /b    1970 Lb      ESTDIATE /b   ASIA S PACIFIC        ASIA A PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     71.0         78.0             94.0              85.9                   99.8
MALE                      86.0        83.0            100.0              94.4                  100.6
FEHALE                    58.0        73.0             89.0              64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                       6.0        16.0             22.0              38.0/as                53.5
MALE                      10.0        21.0             27.0              34.67;                 58.4
FEKALE                     3.0         11.0            18.0              18.07?                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)        20.0        22.0             20.0               3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIDARY                                 39.0        29.0             30.0              32.8                   34.2
SlCONDARY                               14.0        13.0             17.0              19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            39.0         56.6             62.0              52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.0         2.1              3.5               1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              7.2         22.0             38.5              35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              7.3               3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                                                    17 7              14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                                     0.8               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34752.5      41034.6          50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.9         31.0             29.5              29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   74.8        66.3             59.1              69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.4          9.7             11.8              14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7        35.3             35.6              39.7                   40.2
MALE                                      54.2        49.5             50.1              51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                                   20.0         21.6             21.1              23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2         1.3              1.2               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIQiLST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                     33. 7/c          23.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                    52.07h           49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                      6. 87c           6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                     17.37w           14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                               136.0             134.1                  248.6
iURAL                                                               112.0             111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                               119.0                                    249.8
RURAL                                                                98.0                                    234.3
ESTDIATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                                28.0              41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                                                51.0              51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Income recipients.
May, 1981



-22 -                                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 ot 
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes; IAlthough thu dote ore drao fro. cur.  geneIlly judge  the  -ostathoritative end rlaeit should  Io he noted that they say tot be ioter
nationally  -oparabla  eas   ftalo  of s1 tan             icd dfinitin    adotpened by doff erent  oetesin coilootleg the date.  Tha dens see, noes-
,hale,  cfo   o  eo thacor_  of _agottude,tdct  toes,edohtotre                                 Dti eajor ditfeo_ta  bsteoouei
Th'  efcelabo,.  r  (1~) the,am  oo- trY grop of rho soW) cot ....trynn.d (2) a  ooutry group  i0thisomehat high- raverng  i.oo.e thee the noantop g.o.P
of th .sb .co    0ttry  ancrt for  Caital Onrylus Oil taporiare' group abet. "Middle bo-n  North Afric  an.d Middle East". lehosen becaus  of s.range
-aio-o.altaral affioitiee).  It the reference group date the  -vrg   era population weighted aninhoonic .e.nt for -.th inditt.r and sho.- only ohen
majority of the onu..roiss 10 e group baa data fur thee Ondloator.  Sinoe lbs uoverng  of couatrins esong thoe(ofdicatore de,penDsU Ohs evaillbility of dtat
and Is no ut om  tenit  ut be ..... leed In oneto   averges of one tdine...r to snarler.  Thse. avres  eoo ony  eol Orcopeing the velus of
onc indiotor at a tin. amon  thn   -tuory and ref.rn-  groops.
LANR AREA (thousand eq.k.)                                                                        Pouainper fupitl1 B.d - total, urban, aod rural - Fopultaion  (renal,
TurdI - Totn1 g-rfster.o  ouprlsiog 1ood ore  and inland eaters,                                  urba..  aed rural) divldcd by thier repoonive number of hospital beds
AE.olual-isomtc of ogricaurl    aeuadrmorerity or po-motrly                               aviabet  pnblio end.privet  gece Ietd spacialiaed=hopital andin
for coue, pasures,  arhoo ed Atroso gsrcns orto- Ii. fallow; 1923 dare.            hailtaiotteoers    Ropitoels ore eetahlishm.ospcrs tyse1                   e
by a  les   n hysilti.   tatabliabmeni  yrovtdiog pri.ctlplly ousto-
1SF PE  CAPIA (10)   GNP par rep icet. la  nocretark,v prtas  cal--                           dial co  re oct included   Rua  hospitals, hosevr, io-de health
ouloted hy sm  covrio  method us World SaAtlas (19,77-7  besin); 1960,                            and nditt  cont-r, tot pav=eaootly etoffnd Op a phpOciao1 (hut by
1970, nod 1979 data.                                                                              ed Iclsirn. tare., sinft,  _t.) ohiobhoffo  itpsi lnt  ucoi--
detioo utd pruvldr a limiod  -eg. of nalool1 fatilitios.  For  tratie-
ENORGY CONSUMSPTION FOR CAPITA - Anuo.1 -oosopto- of coe-eociu  anorgy (coal                        tica1 purposes orbs  hospitals. ntLooda WHO.0 peiooipal)g-rarl hospitals
sod ligoit., parlan  ntral eo. aod hydro-, nooarad guthatml elec-                                 andtrural h,usrito14 loc1 or rural hospitals oed medical ned matertoiy
triclity) it kilograme of coat equlvaoti por c.pitn; 1960. 1970, an  1979                         conters.  Opoctlieed honpitale eto iocudad only ueda  otnl.
data.                                                                                           Adms!..iot  Por foaptoal Bed - Total ounh- of ndsie i... toot dinobhosas
fro hon p l  divided by the  -uber of bade.
POPULATION SONl VITAL OTATISTICI
Total Population. Mid-Tear         ...usude) - An of July 1; 1960. 1970, sod 1979             HOUSING
date.                     _~A-rerga Siro of Ro...ehold (cers... pror   .. ouohld) - totsl. urban  . ad rural-
toban Porulntioo (p-rcet of total) - Ratio of -bheo to  .tota  popoltinon;                        A bo...ohold ..onnlsre of n group of indivIduals who shot. living quntee
dilfferet dfantiol noo  of orb at Oma   say affect cooperhility of dota                         nod thoir nto sea ls.  A boardec or lodgor toy or may out ha includd in
s_ng c..nrrtae; 1960, 1970, ncd 1979 dat,-h houoo    o  ettalce   upat
PousioP-oncni...                                                                          Al-.,,tonhr u  coctno eporoom- tota.1 otho. aod rural - Averageoum
Poaaitin rea  2001 - Curot pooNiiou projections or. hsd 00 1990                           her of p-rn.os par room io oIl urban, sad r-uo ... oapied on naa
tota  Iprpulunloo by Iageand enosd their  urteiy iadfrllityrr atsru-lns cpeotiv-ly.  Dualliogseucoldator-p-rta tnntruo.rueeeed
Frjotnparameter. for mortality rates conpriac of three le-ol  eson.uocopiod prrt..
tog lot. aopecrao   a  birth l-c..aatngwtOb  --nty't par c-pine ito-                       Access 00 Ilcrco  iecn   f dweligs   toal. urban, nod rural -
lIoel, and fnal  Iife o_pe_tnocy araille Ing at 77.5 years.  The para-                        C_nvetiooal dliog  wt  elctictyt  livig q-ortt  as parrentags
molars foe fertility rote alo  ov  three loveleoeausing decline in                            of total, orha, aad ruroI daellingersrrtep
feroil ity eccoodig to tooe oe nod pet.1.1 fotyplenalug  poforfMeocoEDCAIO
Each coutry is too usigood our of oth. tu   omtatoeo  mobeiiy                             OCTN
and fe rltt  tra-da for projecoct popoas                                                 Adjustd to-IIl..meot  teino
th   oth rate in equal to rho droth rent, aod alto  the age stutr -     re                    rnrol     of al  agoe aoh. prt=ooy lvl  nP trengsofre ov
ninscoostoot.  ThIs Is achinod ouly afo-  fertility rates daclior to                           primary achool-aga populations;teal  inulodes chiIdeen Oeged 6-11
the replacmet level of -oit 00  raprodotuan, o- ,,h: an a,h ge ternro                           yea,rs hot rdjuscad for difforeot lengths of peimary edaoathoe; foe
ofnonpoo    terifMcutly.  The.stat Ionery PoPu,atioo et    netori_eaith oni-er-1 educat.io.nsrr.lmer say  r.aed 100psenett
e ao TnIhoh.eo   h   rjce   hrotrtoc   ftepplto                                         since som  pupils oro below or ahoo  oh. offiula1 scoo  ae
io tho yaro 2OOl, audotharor. of deoline of fertility rota to osplauc-                         nodrychoot - t-iel  noa d fes!ale   Computed as above; ....ondy
soot level.                                                             odacation~~Z:  ceqiraa anlatfuter   f approvd primary inetruot ion;
Tear  tatioato opulaion  -s tauobed - Th. yenr aheo nuoc ypopulation                        proides ganrool  .. vatlonal1. or t..uher orainieg inetrortio.s for papib
slehas, Ieo reahed.                                                                          usually of 12 to 17 psre ot ege; coonpeena_ra  are generaIlp
Population Seeit                                                                                    eclded.
P. ks. o. -i-pane poyolatlot  -e nquare kil...otar (110 h-ctares) of                            Voca.tional  -11o ..ot ipert..et of soooedary) - Voonniotoa  i.tnitati..a
total aro; 1960, 1970 and 1079 duta.                                                            inoude neu.hni-oI, iodustrio1, or onherprogeem w-hich opnrsts iedepaed
Persohe  aaiaoua          .oo       op-td na  bho- tof ortulur 1 ad                               enly oruIepemnn-             fseodryisit,o
only; 1960, 1970  nod 1976 dana.                                                              Pupil-tno.ch.ertic  _ emas   nd  acodsey - TotI stdnts  -nooild in
Poplation bee Onruottura (perceo)t   Children. (0-i4 pears). woehing-age (11-                       peimny sod  -aoodsry level  divided by numbers of temohers in the
f  yor)   -Id -soird (65 yers no .oer  as pe-rceogos of mid-year popo-                            cocrspondioglels
isto   16,190nnd17  dan.                                                                       Malt iasr  rat   rren  - Litorntcedulna  (able no reed aed seine)
Poruletioo Oroath Rate (rerceet) -tooal - annua  orotath retcs of tote1 mid-                         eapercentage of totel adult popultiooa  gsd 10 yasre andovr
y-a  population  for 1950-60. 16-70, ned 197 0- 70.
.porultioo Oroeth Rato(pcen-  rhso - AontuI grooth rates of orbeo popo-                       CONSUMIPTION
loionsf. o 1951:0-60, 1960-70,  nod 1970-79.                                                  Passenge  Car", e  othouedruua                   Pasege  oars coprise mono.
linde Birth Rt   tp. .niussd)9-9SAtou   10c Ii     tbrth  per th oo..d of mid-year                cereserieg lees oh.. eight perso...;  _1rldeeablsca  hearses .ed
population; 1960, 1970D, ad 1979 deto.                                                          military v-hiclo..
Crude Dseth Rate (pot thousad) - Annual deaths par tho....od. of mid-peer                       Radna 1 itacvr  fn(Pr tho-sad ....oleoionl - Ml1 tye  otf ecceiv..:.for radio
popalatior; 1960. 1970, sod 1979 der.tbodose  ogea    publir par thousan.d ofpoypulatIon; se1aesa.
Gross Reprrduction Rate- Averge nuber of dough ters a  oa ill hear Iu                             li edrciesi   unrioa se ,i yeses when- gatai                              a frd',
her  otma  oapoducnv   orid i  h   nolee   rs           ge-spe -ifi`o for-              aceweitfoo   esfrron  ysre say not he romparabl  sine.
tillty  runs  usalyIv-year _naregeeeing in 160 1"970, ad1).moan  -ouenie  abolished licens.ing.
FaiyPlanoooa,-.A-Acccon   annua  (choaooda) - Annual  oumber of eoprnTV Rtivoee fear thousan  poruletion) - To  eevr  f at broedasot
ofhr t-orrl dyt-e under  oepicas of natroanl family plonoing pnooo.                      ses       ulcprthosn            ouaion.; ...tlades aliteosed TV reiv-ra
PnlPlnioa-_Osere  (percet of married emn    P_roatag  of earned                             In  cunoesad in years wh-o  -gienration of TV eats was no  ffeor.
woeo   hil-ern   ag  (040 y              h.)  b  onbirth-coonto,daoic.. to               Nemepep- Cir-ul-rio  leer rhou.sod porulerion)- Show   heaergtt
eli mrnid see   nsn   g   rup                                                                    ueino  diy   eoe   neetnopaper", doflea  as P pai.do
publoaioni. devoted primarily tn recording georre1 nmo. It is renaiderad
FOOD AND NT'EITION                                                                                  to h  "daily" if it appears, en lase  four tiroceensoi.k
loden of -Food Pooducrio Por- Cnpla  1969-71..llO) -Inden of per capita  nnual                  CieA-anua  Attendanc  ear pin  p.. Tr-  -.Raced on the enter of
prdcioof all foo  commditie.  Produc_iooeoolde  sedan   ed end                            tiokts sold donoR  nba Year, including adesioJns no driv-io oi-se
Ios at.caleder yonr bai.   CoMdi'tis coveprmygod(e.  agor"su                                    aod mobile ..it..
inetend of sugar) ohlhl ar  mihl  and coneelo o-teete(.g.ofe o
tea are enlued. Aggregero pooducrlo  of each cu-try Ia, baseId-oo                          LABOR F0RC0
esinlavrg   rducer Prict-ighta; 1961-61, 1970, ed 197  dta.                          Total Labor Porte (tho...oods  - Ooooamitnily arrive peeses, ioludin
Par ..Pit. narrir of clre   (rarc.rof c  renuirennts) - Cotpond   .. ro                          rdfrcsad ansployd hu t  ocludio  hoosowi-e, etodema, err.,
energy  qiaen         fur  odspplies avilable In coatr  pe   apr                              cvologpoplanio  of elI egee.  Defioltio.. in -erio..n .. toneies are
prdey    oalbe  upie   opoina do....ntc prodactioo, imports loss                           non cmperable; 1960, 1970 end 1979 dane.
anpore, an  choorait  stock.Ntap -le ulode animal 0fned, seeds,                       F O(re...nt _F- Feal  leb- four. as ra-rennge of non1 lebor foru..
quatitleeusd  inh foo  protalg  aod' Insei   ittuiteqie                                      ainir   (sros... -I haor force in faming, fo  reey, honing seA
sateeeroasoleane,d by PAP ba...d on physiologIcal needs f or norma act-                       fiehing as perceorags of total lobor force.; 19h0, 1970 and 1979 data
oitp aed health ..o.aideniognniuwrtltumperratu, body wagt,aoIndustry (pront) - Labor force in mioing, rot.terocie                                          .maufnon
end ... diantibutono    opuaio,u              1 lleiog 10 percent for we-e  an                 nd seotriciny, water end geese. porre.n.o o.     f rtoa  lbor forre   9D
household1lanai; 1961-65. 10 70,sodI1977 do.-                                                 1970 an  1979 dana.
Par c-eio. ..c.. o,f crotoit (er-n  oar dayl - Fou tam   cuo--  of per copita                 Pertioirtioo Rae  erco)     onl-sl,  o  fomla      atopn                      or
,It suply of foodpa  da.net supply of food Im dofloed as shov.n-olirsercnprd s total  male,. ad femel  lao f'tc                                                        se
qat  teor  f or all  t cuoIes established by 0000 provide for  iniumP peortage   of tonal, nab  aed fem1l  populetion of ell oge  respenriv-ly;
alloanoc  of 60 gEma- of tonal poonin per day  nud 2   rm faimal and                          160, 1970,Iad 1979 data.  Tbhe.. ar  hemed on I1's partinipatiow  estee
pulse pr-oio, of  hbich 10 arena sould he nei.m  protein.  ThI osod                           reflect ing ag-s... s.rarntre of thrho  popleoon  ae.    d leng time trend.  A
ard  ea lwe  thnth.. of 75  raso of total prto   an   3reso                             t en-siae  eta tram  natO          souces
et-Imlprtriu.s.a.sv-reo   for the eorld, prupo..ed bp PAO in the Third                     Ecoe  pc redency Rtio - Ratio of popalatiue under 11 sod 65 and or-
World Food Suovy; 1961-65, 1970 and 1077 dora.                                                to  the nt_l laborfoc.-
Per  -it,r prrooi.oeuply fro_uinal and pulse  F- Potit supply .t food do-
rived froe enite1l  anplesi  gr_n  per day; 1961-65,h 1970 a 19i77 dats.                 1       DI0ff RIOiBUTIOC
Child logos 1-4) Ofrtality Rae(prthousendl - Annualdeath  poptd oh....Od In                      ...c.etoa of Prior teom   (bunt in cash sod hOed) - Orc-t-d by riohast
eRa groop 1-0 years, no children it thi. age oroar; for mon  denelopiug con                        Porreet, richeat 70 percnt  poores 71 0 per-et, and Peornt 40 p--ee
trines dec  derived from  lit. eahlos; 0060, 1970 and 1979 dat,                                of bhesehu1da.
HEALTH                                                                                          POVET   AOTOOP
Li-fe Emp-oncyt MoHi.        rts   A-ooge nuber ot y..a  of life oemioiog                      _EThe folowiGE  GRetnOUP    revrSproisi   oeun   fpvet   o
enbrh 960, 1970 oud 1979 daa,no  shoul  ho  i-troprene  with  osdrbena
Onfont rftislity Rte (petrthoannod) - AnanI deatha of infoarsuardno oar yea                     fettdeat.d Absolute-pvrord Oucth tridoel   bl0 roeootits      re   n   ue 
of age tee thousan,d  lve bir.ths.,                                                             Aheulato povrty inuom  Jee  Is obt   moon. levelI below   htoh a minima
Acces  no Sate Water orceot ofpouain-ttall., urban  end rural -I -u-turini.nooly edequot  dien plo. o.nootia1 oo-foudreaemnsIs net
her of penpl.(otl  urhe, end rurl_.t..eoal  acs  to safe                                        affoedebl-
ester enpply (locludee terated surface watece or oooeated hot ueuotmaiueted                   Estinatad Relation Poverty Intoo  Level10   oa$ r tore.  - urban mad rurl
wener sor  as than from  pouctccd burehole, springs, nod ...nitary anle  a                      Rrs  relenive poverty income lve  ta roeth ird of evrg  Pee us.pita
Pra rcengeu of oheir resetv    oueiu.Taohuae      ulcpoos  noeo   h   omry.  Urban leve Is derived from  the  ursrI
founosi  or stadpoen lcetad ot mere  hoo 70  mnofrmnhueayeivewthdjtotfrhigher t.st of liiogin orhm  aeas
cnIdeeda hig nithie reoaoablo .acc...  of that house.  In rueo           ea                Esoisated Purnlotiou Beloo  Absolut  Povarny Icm   ee   oret      r
do non hon to spend adosoc-yorolonto part of the dsy in fetuhing the                            poor..d-      .tto   .o.-(r.    dr.)~.                            " .t
Acco.etto crt  DIpoa  ) r-r-a   of populatoI          -ooe.r uobao, ed  urara  -
Somber of people (total, urban, and rural) serve  by  ureadIspuse  a
percen.tages of their respective popolatioos. Ftorrte dispo..ol may loolude
thoolcined disP--osal,ith or eilhuoeoen fh aeoetvee                                                                          toa..o  end nucli;, Dte Div isio
sowst-wae  by eter-boro   systems or tha usetf'pit oprioles and ain                                                         cnmc  nlssed  rjct    iaprtmant
Oariotallatiuns.                                                                                                                                  Mayi 199
Pooolation p.o Phyeitcian-  .porlotion divided by  .onhec of practicing ohysi-My98
cla_  quaified from  e nedocal echcl at oni-rsitr lvo.
FOOtOlati.tpa  Ortreco- Pocolatiut dWitded by number of pr-co icig
-aleerd fsmalgeduereout rse, prat-lco nurses..td ...cetantcnoreea.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
- 23 -
Population      :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                   Annual growth rate (%)
(million US$ at                              (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                         Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                             1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domesttc product /a         70,024             5.0    6.4    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.2    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                     18,003            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                        29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                        22,794           10.1     5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                        48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    8.7    7.8    7.2    8.2    6.0
Gross investment                   15,176           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Exports of GNFS                    21,365          -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2   -5.5    8.2   13.6    1.0    2.5
Imports of GNFS                    15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6   20.1    7.2   13.4            3.2    0.5
Gross nattonal savings             17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
CDP deflator (1973 - 100)                            166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                           Average annual tncrease (%)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   198n   1985   1990          1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product        10O    10O    100    100    100    100              3.9          8.4          7.5         7.3          7.5
Agrtculture                  54      47      32      26     22      17          2.7          4.1          4.1         3.5         3.5
Industry                     14      18      34     42      44      46          5.2         12.0         9.7          9.0         9.0
Services                     32      35      35      31     36      36         4.8           9.7         9.0          8.5         7.5
Consumption                  91      89      79      70     74      74         4.1           8.4          3.9         8.6         7.6
Cross investment              8      14      20     22      26      27         4.8          18.3        11.7         12.5         7.8
Exports of GNFS              13      13      23      11     21      18          3.6          9.2         8.7          3.7         3.2
inports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19             3.2          22.1        14.0          8.7         4.9
Gross national savings        8       9      17     25      25      22          6.1         23.1        14.4          4.8         7.3
As X of GDP
1960           1970            1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                            11.7            10.1            10.5                23.4
Current expenditures                                                        14.0             8.4             9.3                13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                  -2.3            +1.6            +7.1               +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                          n.a.            5.0            10.7                13.5
Foreign financing                                                            0.2             3.5             3.7                 3.4
1960-70          1970-75             1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHIER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                4.5              7.6                 6.9              7.3              7.3
Annual GNP Per capita growth rate (X)                     2.4              5.1                 4.5              4.9              5.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (x)                 2.9             16.0                15.0             11.0             10.0
ICOR                                                      2.2              2.2                 3.1              3.4              3.8
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.30             0.18             0.26
Import elasticity                                         1.2              2.8                 1.9              1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
7-b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 20, 1982



- 24 -                              ~~~~~~~~ANNEX T
Population     :  147.4 million (mid-1980)                             -2                                               Page 5 of 5 pages
GNP per Capita:  VS$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND nEBT
(Millions llSS at current prices)
Actual                  Estimate                       Pro7ected
Indicator                   1977      1q79      1979      1990      1991       1992      1983      1i84      19I5 1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                             10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,173    24,529   30,109   33,243   36,790   60,953
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)               7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   17,998    19,836   22,969   24,279   25,975   37,119
(b)  Nonoil                          1,507    3,979    6,171       5,584    4,193       5,692    7,239    8,964   10,915   23,834
2.  Imports (incluiding net 'IFS)      -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,135   -26,095  -31,8R6  -35,253  -38,187  -65,903
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -7,659    -8,606  -10,595   -9,972  -10,006  -16,051
(b)  Nonoil tmports                 -7,241   -7,543   -9,029  -11,790  -14,509   -16,389  -19,999  -23,755  -26,399  -46,657
(c)  NFS (net)                        -536      -596      -659      -975      -968    -I,lOn   -1,3nO   -1,526   -1,782   -3,195
3.  Resource balance                        175     -140    3,459    3,596        -762    -1,567   -1,778   -2,0tO   -,1397   -4,950
4.  Factor services                        -965   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -1,203          -732   -1,247   -1,529   -1,968   -4,430
(a)  Interest public debt             -441      -514      -772      -924   -1,012    -1,226   -,1520   -I,91n   -2,119   -3,882
(b)  Other (net)                      -424      -501      -499      -381      -191        494       273       281       151      -54R
5.  Capital grants                           66        46        52        76       67         100      100       100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account             -624   -1,109     2,198    2,467   -1,898    -2,199   -2,925   -3,434   -3,265   -9,2RO
7.  Direct foreign investment               285       271       217       140       178        200       350      450       600    1,000
S.  eublic M & LT loans
(a)  Disbuirsement                   1,956    2,205    1,965    2,612    3,976          4,12t     4,777    5,548    6,063    9,695
(b)  Amortization                     -82S   -1,548   -1,329        -952   -1,168    -13,08   -1,493   -1,719   -1,983   -3,603
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131       657       536    1,660    2,908        2,812    3,284    3,929    4,090    6,092
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140       891   -1,261   -1,531   -1,418           500       800    1,000       700    2,000
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651          -708   -1,690   -2,736         330    -1,313   -1,509   -1,840   -2,115          188
11.  Net official reserves                2,209    2,916    4,606    7,342    7,012          8,325    9,834   11,674   13,789   17,543
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9       5.6        5.7       5.5       5.5       5.9       4.2
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the hanking
system  /d                                -         -    6,906   10,797   10,157    11,670   13,179   15,019   17,634   22,3R8
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                           3.4       4.3       9.6      10.1       9.3        9.0       7.4       7.0       7.5       5.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL ANn DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                     1,956    2,205    1,965    2,612
Concessional Loans                         442       494      433        732
Bilateral                               381       449       399       694
IDA                                      49        29        10        42
Other                                     12        6          5        6
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,514    1,721    1,432    1,980
Official export credits                 218       271        61        44
IBRD                                    191       168       199       331
Other multilateral                       16        12        46        52
Private - source                      1,099    1,270    1,126       1,453
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt ouitstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,940
Official - source                   7,077    9,390    8,434    9,442
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,497
Undisbursed debt                      4,475    5,839    7,912    8,889
Debt Service
Total service payments                1,26?    2,062    2,101    1,777
Interest                              441       514       771       824
Payments as Z exports /e               11.6      18.2      12.0       8.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(%)                                     6.3       7.6       6.6       8.1
Official - source                        5.4      4.6       5.0       5.0
Private  - source                       8.6      10.2       8.6      12.9
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                20.5      18.7      19.1    I1.9
Official - source                      23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8
Private  - source                      10.4        9.6     11.1      10.0
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                 30.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                 4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
/b  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/c  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7d  At end of period.                                                                                     East Asia and Pacific Programs
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                          January 20, 1982



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and thirty Credits fully disbursed           357.0   453.30        -
300     1972   Population                                        13.20        0.45
387     1973   Third Education                                   13.50        3.03
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                 7.80        3.51
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                     16.50        8.56
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                        5.00        0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                      16.00        3.97
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                   6.50        0.51
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                    30.00        9.16
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project              40.00        9.93
827     1978   Rural Credit                                      30.00       16.67
869     1979   Polytechnic                                       49.00       45.55
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                        10.00        8.96
919     1979   Transmigration II                                 67.00       49.72
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                      12.uu       11.Z9
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                   45.00       42.15
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                              45.00       41.25
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                 42.00       41.48
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                     30.00       29.95
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                  14.50                1.47
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.00               14.79
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.50                5.99
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.00                5.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.00               36.99
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.00               10.94
1250     1976   Second Shipping                           54.00               16.30
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Extension PURSI IV    70.00                   0.03
1259     1976   Fifth Power                               90.00                5.08
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.00                3.91
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.00               10.14
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                   8.17
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                  52.50                8.83
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                        32.00               11.40
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                              15.00                1.06



ANNEX II
- 26 -                       Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00             37.89
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00              8.52
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00             12.57
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00             41.49
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00             12.26
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                  1.26
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50             14.83
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00              8.12
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00             37.36
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00             52.35
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00            123.60
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00             22.82
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                 62.36
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00             59.78
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00             39.45
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00             44.11
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00             37.74
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00            107.48
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00             26.48
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00             90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00            139.74
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00             34.29
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III          99.00             83.96
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.00            111.78
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV           42.00             39.37
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                  35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                   35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                       253.00            240.22
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project              46.00             45.21
1904    1981   University Development Project             45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                       250.00            250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                  22.00             22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project           43.00             43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V          161.00            161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00                106.00
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway /1                85.00             85.00
/1  Not yet effective



ANNEX II
- 27 -                    Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              3,814.00  931.80
less cancellations                           -23.13   -1.65
Total                                         3,790.87  930.15
of which has been repaid                     -92.24   -2.89
Total now outstanding                         3,698.63  927.26
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            3,697.60  927.26
Total undisbursed                            2,457.84  327.09   2,784.93
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
- 28-                        Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                               Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ---- (US$ million) ---
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8       3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4       3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7       6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3       2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -       0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6       3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3       0.2       1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -       0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market       4.0      1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                           114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                74.2       3.4       77.6
Total held by IFC                                  40.6      14.3       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   53.1          0.9       54.0



ANNEX II
- 29 -                      Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1981
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                             6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                         9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)              13-14
Rural Development (946)                                                    14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                  15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                       16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                              18-20
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                   21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                        21
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                            22
Nutrition (1373)                                                           23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                     24
Transportation
Highways (1236, 1696 and 2049)                                            24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                    25
Ports (1337)                                                               26
Tourism (479)                                                                26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                     26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                 28
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                      Page 6 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year-s delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



ANNEX II
31                           Page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on G0I's decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about oine year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits. The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for further Bank consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have been completed. Three projects were recommended for Bank
'ssistance under the propose- sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing. Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the
program under the current project has to be curtailed. Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current



ANNEX II
- 32 -                    Page 8 of 28 pages
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years. Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in June 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations. Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI's decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Glapan Barrage and Tuntang River and upgrading of
irrigation systems. Disbursements are about 39% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. Tenders for three major contracts, aggregate $30.4 million,
received in March-April 1981, are expected to be awarded in November 1981.
Right-of-way acquisition is also behind schedule. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by March 1985, a delay of two years over
appraisal estimate. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI's
procurement committee.



ANNEX II
3 3 -                  Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects.  The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
construction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of personnel and the cons-ruction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



ANNEX II
- 34 -                   Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed.  The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981.  The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, it has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



ANNEX II
_ 35 -                    Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to:  (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor's and consultant's engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to complete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made tip, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start in 1979 due to labor shortage, budgetary cons-
traints and procurement difficulties, good progress was achieved in the last
twelve months. Further improvement is expected in project implementation.
All major project components are, therefore, expected to be completed as
originally planned, except the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province,
which has run into unexpected difficulties due to the reluctance of small-
holders to participate in the replanting scheme.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                 Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IND) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After an initial delay due to lack of maps the project's small-
holder development component is off to a good start and is expected to be on
schedule by 1982. The Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V (Loan 2007-IND)
start-up component has progressed well and, largely because of this, the
FY81/82 development targets are likely to be achieved in the major compo-
nent supervised. Other project components are approximately on schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal. The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation. It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved. Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds. There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 28 pages
_ 37 -
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers and delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putih,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase II) by
December 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
vehicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sungei Putih
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed. Extension materials are being produced and distributed from
AICs. Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-time staff.  Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target. However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 28 pages
- 38 -
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant Director, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Heads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis. 57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procured against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/82.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed. Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected.  A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



ANNEX II
- 39 -                      Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule.  The expeditious
procurement of project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. Despite
start-up difficulties, BI has now established and staffed all project
management units. The three field units in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in
project promotion and preparation. The training and studies components of the
project are progressing satisfactorily. On the whole, progress under this
project (SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project
has been fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed for two years.  The undisbursed proceeds of this credit are
being used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry. The closing
date has been postponed to enable disbursements for the technical assistance
component to be made.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of



ANNEX II
- 40 -                  Page 16 of 28 pages
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises (SSEs) by the
Ministry of Industry. This is being financed by $1 million from the proceeds
of this loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff. Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts. Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project's objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



ANNEX II
- 41 -                  Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. In the MEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are
commissioned and a national skill standards system is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982. Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



ANNEX II
- 42 -                    Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981.  All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is alread- orn site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Although some slippage has developed in the
physical implementation, it is not yet serious. Costs are tending to rise.
The project also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation; this technical assistance has
started, and fellowship utilization is up to schedule. Efforts to redress
a shortage of teachers outside Java are making steady progress. Through its
national schools, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Exten-
sion is having significant impact on improving the efficiency of regional
and private schools, as planned. Little progress has been made on evaluation,
tracer or manpower studies; specialist assistance is expected to stimulate
these activities.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980;  Effective Date:  January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of high level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loan is expected to be drawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of medium voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



ANNEX II
- 43 -                Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding. Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40%) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by March 1982. Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage. The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work. Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981.
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981. There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
-oan No. 1513   Seventh Power.  yiO9 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project:  (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement. This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress.  Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
- 44 -
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $1/5 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now about eight months behind schedule due to
(a) slow progress of work by the piling contractor in site improvement;
(b) delay in finalizing various critical contracts; and (c) delay in final-
izing designs and tender documents for the marine works. The most signifi-
cant contributory factor in the delays is the cumbersome procedures for
evaluating bids and approval of contracts that have been introduced as a
result of Presidential Decrees 10 and 14A (procurement procedures). Also,
the GOIs budgetary process makes it difficult for the electricity authority
and the project management to have flexibility in the deployment of Rupiah
funds. The Bank is continuing to pursue these problems with the GOI. Dis-
bursements are much slower than projected. Project cost estimates are now
based on available contract and tender prices and the total cost of
contracts being financed by the Bank loan amount to $140 million, plus
contingencies. Present indications are that there will be a saving of
about $20 million in the loan amount.
Loan No. 18/2   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is still not affected. Tenders for EHV
lines, substations, transformers and reactors were received in November-
December 1980 and as of the last supervision mission in July 1981, were
expected to be finalized in October 1981. Commissioning date for the EHV
lines and substation is now estimated to be June 1982, which would be ahead
of the commissioning of the first Suralaya unit in August 1984, though six
months behind the appraisal schedule. Progress in land acquisition is
satisfactory, the land for all substations has been purchased. Also,
negotiations for the purchase of land for tower locations is in progress.
Tenders for control and communications equipment were issued in April 1981.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java's growing demand for economical electricity.



ANNEX II
45 -                      Page 21 of 28 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 415 ha of raw land now earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms, with employment currently estimated at around
9,700; at full capacity production employment is expected to be around
23,000 workers. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in
protracted disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than
estimated at appraisal, PT JIEP's financial performance has been
satisfactory. Some adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies
were nevertheless called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last
project supervision mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the
Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT
JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing date of the credit was
therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982, reallocating the
remaining funds for the establishment of the EPZ. However, the loan docu-
ments have not yet been amended because the required Presidential Decree and
subsequent operating license by the Department of Trade and Cooperatives
have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectave Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as possible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. Commitments
have increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As
of March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been committed. Disbursements have
also caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed
by September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
- 46 -
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer. Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be completed shortly. All
activity connected with the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.



ANNEX II
47                      Page 23 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustained.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed. This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
with consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction. All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement. The closing date has been post-
poned by one year to March 31, 1983.



ANNEX II
- 48 -                     Page 24 of 28 pages
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed. Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGH. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



ANNEX II
- 49 -                    Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGH should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon. The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project would increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court of Inquiry.



ANNEX II
- 50 -                  Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost. Several Bank-financed studies which are
underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to identify
components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. On the other hand, the Ministry
of Transport is proposing to use additional funds from the credit to cover the
cost overrun incurred on the already completed access and bypass road
component. The allocation of the uncommitted funds to the two agencies is
under review by the Government. The market for tourism to Bali has held up
well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard hotels in Bali
exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa
Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The negotiations
with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village has been finalized and the
construction is expected to start in early 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste



ANNEX II
Page 27 of 28 pages
- 51 -
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and 374
ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. Upgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about
1.4 million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in
Surabaya have been trained and are working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FY80/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank's assistance to GOI's basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia. Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities. A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



ANNEX II
Page 28 of 28 pages
- 52 -
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts have
been completed or are under execution. Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45% is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is 9-12 months behind schedule due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in tendering and award of contracts. Most procurement
contracts for equipment have been awarded except for the water meter contract.
The civil works bidding documents for the construction of water treatment
plants were approved during the last supervision mission and were tendered
in September 1981. A problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is Its Ielay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven beneficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
monitoring the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload. Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



ANNEX III
- 53 -
INDONESIA
TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  1 year
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  GOI with UNESCO assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:        April 1980
(d) First Bank mission to identify
the project:                         June/July 1980
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                             March/April 1981
(f) Scheduled date of completion of
negotiations:                        February 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         May 1982
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
OI would:
(a) complete studies on the organization and operation of integrated
preservice teacher training to be completed by December 31, 1984
(para. 40);
(b) establish monitoring and evaluation systems covering both the
project implementation process and the overall project impact in
relation to its immediate and long-term objectives (para. 44); and
(c) ensure that the Steering Council, the Coordinating Committee and
the Project Coordinating Secretariat would be maintained throughout
the project period (para. 46).



t_>tHA1LAND  b 0  liS' 1>  9  ( IZS't V ITLt fi5' , IBRD 12696 R'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 269 R
W\   %  X             .                                                 /               s                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pHILIPPNiES   :-ADMINISTPATION AND POPULATIONS
'''\\\\,t' ' A 8 d 527tb                               C^0tt  St9         0    BRUNEIL  z- P1CA ABA
g S   fMAAYjAg                                                             / ,  >,xw- --                                                                                              8   :!T7RLMIMALAYSIArg^s
8>,-,s, . ., VKuoloLunip>~~~~~~r                                                  13  LsI9 K l 5 eLitKiIf
<>N--Is1~SNGPOE                                                                                                                                                                                     M  
75 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ MHk aAWK                                                          n    i2
25 KSAT KU5A rAT4ARA                                                                                                                        0,  190  2C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P 30  J9   5P  50,  2L 0
7j +21AN JbWA   -   0 .                  .                              .                                              v                                                             KKS3MeTeK5 5              ;~A 
1CK7IL^.                                    10:                  .      25s                        120125                              -                   1OX                          Xa               . 
.   ,   -  -  ,  .  .  . _ __ _ __  .  .. . , t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d



