LOAN NUMBER 2101 IND
Loan Agreement
(Second Teacher Training Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2101 IND
LOAN   REEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           b&   1982, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter ca fed the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MEC" means the Borrrower's Ministry of Education and
Culture; and
(b) "BP3K" means the Office of Educational and Cultural
Research and Development within MEC.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty million dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MEC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, educational, engineering and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without limitation on paragraph (a) of this Section, in
order to ensure appropriate coordination and timely implementation
of the Project, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain
through the completion of the Project:
(i) A Steering Council to be responsible for consider-
ing and making decisions upon policies and issues
arising during the implementation of the Project


﻿-3-
and not resolved by the Project Coordinating
Committee, the Project Coordinating Secretariat or
the Project Units described in the following
sub-paragraphs. The Steering Council shall consist
of, inter alia, the Chairman of BP3K, the Secretary
General, Director General of Primary and Secondary
Education and the Director General of Higher
Education;
(ii) A Project Coordinating Committee whose composition
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsi-
ble for coordination and compatibility of the
programs and procedures of the Project Units
described in subparagraph (iv) below and for
implementation of Part E of the Project;
(iii) A Project Coordinating Secretariat whose composi-
tion and responsibilities shall be satisfactory to
the Bank; and
(iv) Two Project Units whose composition shall be
satisfactory to the Bank: one within the
Directorate of Teacher Training of the Directorate
General of Primary and Secondary Education, to be
responsible for Parts Arl, B, C and D of the
Project; and the other within the Directorate of
Academic Affairs of the Directorate General of
Higher Education, to be responsible for Part A.2 of
the Project.
(c) Without limitation on paragraphs (a) and (b) (iii) of
this Section, the Borrower, through the Project Coordinating
Secretariat referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agree-
ment, acting with the assistance of the Directorate of Teacher
Training and the Directorate of Academic Affairs, school prin-
cipals, college rectors and consultants engaged under the Project,
shall complete the studies included in Part A.3 of the Project in
accordance with terms of reference and a timetable acceptable to
the Bank.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ, in accordance with
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank),
consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience, timing


﻿-4-
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank in accordance with principles and procedures described in
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall caucr all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.


﻿-5-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available and satis-
factory for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall prepare the national special
education strategy included in Part B.3 of the Project by Decem-
ber 31, 1983 in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank.   Upon preparation of the strategy, the Borrower shall
promptly furnish a copy thereof to the Bank for its review.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall prepare the plan for
a national integrated system of inservice training included in
Part C.4 of the Project by December 31, 1983 according to terms of
reference acceptabl, to the Bank. Thereafter, the Borrower shall
consult with the Baik on the implementation of the Plan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that the scope and
methods of Project monitoring and evaluation included in Part E of
the Project. shall be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall select candidates for the
fellowships, study programs and short training courses included in
the Project in accordance with procedures, criteria and timetables
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that provisions
satisfactory to the Bank shall be made for the proper installa-
tion, use and maintenance of equipment procured for the purposes
of the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priorir,y over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the beriefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the 1pan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision
thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for
the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabili-
zation fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,


﻿-7-
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts established
for the purposes of the Project for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of said accounts for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date         7    , 1982, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Se ion   2.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN JKT 45799
Jakarta                          DEPKEU  JKT 44319
DITJMON JK1 46415
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the iarties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United- States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/S
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  27,700,000         40%
(2) Equipment and                26,000,000
materials
(a) directly imported                          100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manu-                              100% of local
factured                                  expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported procured                          70% of local
locally                                   expenditures
(3) Technical Assistance         22,100,000         100%
(4) Unallocated                   4,200,000
TOTAL        80,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, tlize Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Project Description
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
improving the quality and quantity of primary teacher, secondary
teacher and special education and in expanding the training of
educational administrators. The Project consists of the following
parts:
Part A:   Preservice Training
1.   Primary Teacher Training
(a) Construction or improvement of sixty primary teacher
training schools, including construction or renovation, furnishing
and equipping of facilities.
(b) Construction or improvement of ten primary sports
teacher training schools, including construction, furnishing aOd
equipping of facilities.
(c) Provision of staff development, including (i) study
programs in research and evaluation in teacher education for an
average of one staff member from each of the schools referred to
in paragraphs 1 (a) and (b) above; (ii) fellowships for master's
degrees for about 50 staff in teams from each of the eight teacher
training regions of the Borrower; and (iii) the provision of
advisors in the management of teacher education for such regions.
2.   Secondary Teacher Training
(a) Improvement and expansion of eleven existing secondary
teacher training colleges to accommodate about 16,000 additional
students, including construction or renovation, furnishing and
equipping of facilities.
(b) Provision of staff development, including (i) fellow-
ships for master's degrees for about 150 staff and doctoral
degrees for about 100 staff, (ii) training seminars for about
1400 staff, (iii) short training courses in student and space
scheduling for about two staff from each college referred to in
paragraph 2 (a) above, and (iv) fellowships for master's degrees
for eleven library staff, one to be placed at each such college.


﻿- 12 -
(c) Provision of special services for secondary teacher
training colleges, including (i) national advisors in teacher
training and curriculum and materials development and (ii)
specialists in college management and administration and planning
of teacher education.
3.   Studies to improve the organization, operation and coordina-
tion of integrated primary and secondary teacher training.
Part B:   Special Education
1.   Construction or improvement of two new and four existing
colleges, for the training of about 2400 teachers of handicapped
students, including construction or renovation, furnishing and
equipping of facilities.
2.   Provision of staff development, including (a) fellow-
ships for doctoral degrees for about one principal staff member
of each of the colleges referred to in the preceding paragraph;
and (b) fellowships for certain staff of such colleges and of
MEC who provide leadership in special education.
3.   Provision of specialist services for (a) program,
facilities and staff development, and (b) development of a
national special education strategy.
Part C:   Inservice Training
1.   Improvement and expansion of existing national inservice
teacher training centers at Jakarta, Yogyakarta and Malang to
accommodate about 150 trainees at each center, including construc-
tion and renovation, furnishing and equipping of facilities.
2.   Establishment of two new regional inservice training
centers at Menado and Ambon, including construction, furnishing
and equipping of facilities.
3.   Provision of staff training and technical assistance,
including fellowships for selected staff and the provision of
specialist services, to assist in the development of inservice
training activities.
4.   Preparation of a plan for the implementation of a
national integrated system of inservice training.


﻿- 13 -
Part D:   Training in Educational Administration
Development of a training unit for educational administration
in the Directorate General of Primary and Secondary Education,
including construction, furnishing and equipping of facilities
near Jakarta to accommodate about 250 trainees, and provision
of specialist services and fellowships.
Part E:   Project Evaluation and Development of Future Projects
Establishment of a system to monitor project implementation
and to evaluate the impact of the project in meeting its immediate
and long-term objectives; and support for the preparation of
future projects in the education sector of the Borrower.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1987
through   September 1, 2001               2,665,000
On March 1, 2002                               2,715,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.041 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                  3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                  9.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                 10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  11.60%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such'
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding shall be prequalified as des-
cribed in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the impbrted
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 17 -
5.   Contracts for goods and civil works referred to in Part A
of this Schedule shall be grouped so as to encourage competition
and to permit bulk procurement consistent with appropriate
technical and procurement practices.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Indonesia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Republic of Indonesia
equal to a least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 18 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be awarded after competitive
bidding in accordance with the Borrower's procedures in effect at
the date of this Agreement.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equiva-'
lent of $160,000 may be awarded after competitive bidding in
accordance with the Borrower's procedures in effect at the date
of this Agreement; provided that the aggregate amount of such
contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
3.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $32,000 each may be awarded after prudent local shopping
on the basis of at least three price quotations; provided that the
aggregate amount of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent
of $3,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   (a) Before bids for equipment are invited, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its comments a master list of the
equipment required for carrying out the Project, indicating the
specifications and the estimated unit and total price of the items
to be procured, and shall make such modification in the master
list as the Bank shall reasonably request. Such items shall be
indexed, coded and numbered for identification with respect to the
Project locations for which they are to be used.
(b) Modifications of the master list of equipment prepared
in accordance with the foregoing paragraph shall be submitted to


﻿- 19 -
the Bank for its concurrence, except for such modifications which
do not exceed the equivalent of $10,000 for any one item or, in
the aggregate, five percent (5%) of the total proceeds of the Loan
then allocated for equipment.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, with respect to
all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more, and with respect to all contracts for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $160,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of
the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's con-
currence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and.
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution


﻿- 20 -
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 2, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Consultants and Experts to be
Employed by the Borrower
The Borrower shall employ consultants and experts for:
Man-years
(approximately)
1.   Primary preservice training under the               24
Directorate of Teacher Training to
assist in administration of training
included in Part A.1 of the Project.
2.   Secondary preservice training under the             24
Project Unit responsible for Part A.2
of the Project to assist in teacher
training, curriculum and materials
development included in Part A.2 of
the Project.
3.   College management (including library               10
management and registrar assistance)
under the Project unit responsible for
Part A.2 of the Project, included in
Part A.2 of the Project.
4.   Special education program, facilities,               6
staff development and development of
the national special education strategy
under the Directorate of Teacher Train-
ing included in Part B.3 of the Project.
5.   Inservice training to assist regional                3
and national subject matter centers
included in Part C.3 of the Project.
6.   Administrator training included in   .               4
Part D of the Project.
7.   Project evaluation included in                       2
Part E of the Project.
TOTAL              73


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  &fZLtLday of, 14     , 198
FOR SECRETARY


