Report No. PID9246
Project Name                     Bosnia and Herzegovina-The Trade and(@)
Transport Facilitation in Southeast
Europe (TTFSE) Project, one of six
regionally-linked projects
under the TTFSE Program
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       BHPE70079
Borrowers                        Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           November 14, 2000
Date Initial PID Prepared        January 11, 1999
Appraisal Date                   September 20, 2000
Projected Board Date             January 15, 2001
Background- The collapse of the Soviet Union and the break-up of the Yugoslav
Federation led to radical changes in the direction of traffic flows and the creation
of new frontiers and customs services. Performance of the border control agencies
has been unsatisfactory: (i) traffic has been subject to long waiting times, raising
the cost of transport services and making them unpredictable; (ii) customs revenue
collection has fallen short; (iii) and smuggling and corruption have become
widespread. These deficiencies have amounted to bottlenecks to trade, with macro-
economic effects similar to those of protectionist trade policies. They undermine
incentives to improve competitiveness; and deter foreign direct investment.
To address these problems, the EU has been advising Romania and Bulgaria on customs
reform and computerization, as part of its pre-accession assistance. In
Bosnia/Herzegovina it has provided substantial direct operational support to build
up the customs administrations after the war and likewise in Albania after the civil
unrest of 1995-97. The Southeast European Cooperative Initiative (SECI) has, in
parallel, set up national PRO committees to mobilize public and private sectors
to simplify procedures and otherwise facilitate trade. In this connection the
governments of Albania, Bosnia/Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, FYR Macedonia and
Romania have each asked the Bank to finance improvements to border crossing points
Program Objectives and Description- The border crossing problem, by its nature,
requires coordinated and mutually reinforcing action in many areas. The Program
therefore aims to integrate the efforts of the EU, SECI and the World Bank Group
for: (a) physical improvements to border crossings, (b) technical assistance to
strengthen the customs administrations, (c) computerization of procedures at the
border crossings and electronic filing of customs declarations, (d) improved
exchange of information between the border control agencies and the business
community using a web-site; and (e) training for the business community through
seminars and distance learning. At the regional (i.e. international) level a



steering committee has been created to provide a forum for the exchange of
experience among the countries, the collective aligning of procedures on EU
standards, and the coordination of operating practices at paired crossing
points. Thereby the Program aims to: (i) reduce costs to trade and transport; (ii)
reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings; and (iii) strengthen regional
partnerships and expand regional trade.
Program Costs and Financing- The total cost of the project is estimated at US$
14.8 million equivalent. An IDA Credit of US$ 11 million equivalent would finance
about 74 percent of this total. The US government has been asked to provide grant
funding of about $ 0.7 million. The government will finance the remaining US$ 3.2
million, about 21 percent of the total estimated cost. The EU is providing most
assistance to the Customs administrations through on-going grants.
Preparation and Implementation- The Project is one of six nearly simultaneous
country operations linked under the TTFSE Program. The project will be implemented
over three years, starting in early 2001. The customs administrations will be
responsible for implementing most components, although the border police will also
be involved. Trade facilitation activities will be hosted by the chambers of
economy, the PRO-committees and professional associations. The regional steering
committee is responsible for coordination across countries. To the extent possible
the project implementation teams are being built around officials already managing
the EU assistance and SECI coordinating functions. The PITs will assist each
government in procurement and loan management.
Technical Discussions were held with Bosnia and Herzegovina and will be
converted to negotiation status once agreed conditions are met. The Project
would go to the Board in January and become effective in late February 2001.
All other TTFSE projects have been approved by the Bank.
Contact Information:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 17, 2000.
- 2 -



