                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 34925

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (PPFI-Q2370 IDA-34660)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12.36 MILLION

                                          TO

                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                        FOR A

          TRADE & TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT




                                     March 22, 2006




Infrastructure Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective September 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Convertible Mark (KM)
                         BAM1 = US$ 0.61
                         US$ 1 = BAM1.63

                        FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1 -     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 APL                Adjustable Program Lending
 BCE                Bosnian Chamber of Economy
 BCP                Border Crossing Point
 BiH                Bosnia and Herzegovina
 CAFAO              Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office (EU)
 CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
 CEE                Central and Eastern Europe
 EDI                Electronic Data Interchange
 ECMT               European Conference of Ministers of Transport
 EU                 European Union
 FBH                Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
 FCA                Federation Customs Administration
 FIATA              Federation of International Forwarding Agents
 FMS                Financial Management System
 IBM                Integrated Border Management
 ITA                Indirect Taxation Administration
 LPT                Local Project Team
 MOF                Ministry of Finance
 MOU                Memorandum of Understanding
 PIT                Project Implementation Team
 PPF                Project Preparation Facility
 QAG                Quality Assurance Group
 RS                 Republika Srpska
 RSC                Regional Steering Committee
 RSCA               Republika Srpska Customs Administration
 SECI               Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
 SEE                Southeast Europe
 SME                Small and Medium Enterprises
 TTFSE              Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
 VAT                Value-Added Tax
 WCO                World Customs Organization


                 Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
              Country Director       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
               Sector Manager        Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Paulus Guitink, ECSIE

                                 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                Trade & Transport Facilitation in South East Europe Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            36

Maps IBRD Nos. 31072 and 31073

Project ID: P070079                                                  Project Name: Trade & Transport Facilitation in South
                                                                     East Europe Project
Team Leader: Paulus A. Guitink                                       TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 23, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Trade & Transport Facilitation in South East             L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q2370; IDA-34660
                            Europe Project
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other accountability/anti-corruption
                            (P); Regional integration (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/20/1999                                     Effective:                           12/27/2001
     Appraisal: 06/05/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 02/22/2001                                      Closing: 09/30/2004                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Finance/General Directorate of Customs/General Roads Directorate
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Peter D. Thomson                               Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Paulus A. Guitink                              Gerald Paul Ollivier
ICR Primary Author:             Paulus Guitink; Sati Achath;
                                Madhu Nair


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the US$14.8 million project (Credit US$11.0 million) were to: (i) reduce non-tariff costs
to trade and transport; and (ii) reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings. The project formed
part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) that aimed
to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control agencies in Albania,
Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH), Bulgaria, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and
Romania. Serbia and Montenegro, first, and then Moldova joined the program later, bringing the total to
eight countries. The Program was the result of a collaborative effort among the Government of BiH, the
Bank, the European Union (EU) and the United States of America (USA).

The objectives were straightforward, clearly stated, important to the country's economic and social
development, and realistic in scale and scope. These objectives were expected to be achieved by: (i)
supporting the reforms of the Federal Customs Administration (FCA) and of the Republika Srpska's
Customs Administration (RSCA); (ii) strengthening mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between
border control agencies and the trading community; (iii) disseminating information and providing training
to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure and equipment at selected border crossings; and (v)
supporting the implementation, at pilot sites, of an integrated set of new customs procedures, information
technology, human resource management techniques, supporting infrastructure, and cooperation
mechanisms for agencies at border crossings.

In BiH, the Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office (CAFAO) had already been leading technical support to
customs reforms since 1996 and would continue to lead this support during the life of the project. The
preparation of this project had drawn on the experience of and the data provided by the CAFAO. The
reform process necessary to change institutional cultures and ingrained behavior was expected to take a
substantial time, about eight to ten years. The reform involved simultaneous and sustained actions on: (i)
change in administrative and operational procedures; (ii) definition of staff profiles for the organization and
hiring, training and deployment ; (iii) elaboration and implementation of a staff development plan; (iv)
introduction of up-to-date information technology and regional interconnections; and (v) measurement of
Customs reform impacts at border crossings and inland terminals.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for BiH, discussed by the
Board on May 18, 2000 ( Document No. 20301-BiH). The project supported the overarching objective of
the World Bank Group for BiH, namely: "increasing economic opportunity and improving the quality of
life for the population"; and the specific objectives of "strengthening institutions and governance" and
'fostering private sector-led growth and employment". The project would: (i) facilitate trade integration with
Southeast Europe (SEE) and the EU; (ii) develop significant border infrastructure to enable greater regional
integration; and (iii) support the reform of the customs administrations.

The project design reflected lessons learned from earlier projects in BiH and other countries. For example,
the Transit Facilitation Project in Macedonia highlighted the need to: (i) tailor the complexity of the
project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure the capability of implementing
agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the borrower; and (iv) maintain flexibility to
ease implementation. EU-PHARE's experience showed that to lessen transaction costs at border crossings,
border crossing investments need to be supplemented by: (i) reliable traffic data; (ii) accurate information on
waiting times; (iii) adequate remedial actions on both sides of a border crossing; (iv) attention to multi-agency
needs; (v) linkage to national transport policies; (vi) reliable telecommunication infrastructure and equipment; (vii)
communication with users; and (viii) coordination and simplification of customs procedures and removal of state
controls on international trade.



                                                           - 2 -

The project envisioned the following social and economic benefits. The customs reform coupled with
proper facilities and information technology would lead to transparent customs procedures, a more reliable
business environment, and economic growth as a result of lower prices for imports and more competitive
prices/services for exports. The benefits would spill over to government agencies and private companies in
other trade partner countries. This would translate into: (i) cheaper import goods / inputs for consumers
and industries; (ii) better and more reliable business environment for private sector activities, particularly
for the trade activities of SMEs; (iii) a more predictable and reliable economic setting for foreign
companies; (iv) improved facilitation for transit traffic; (v) reduction of corruption and smuggling
opportunities; (vi) improved revenue collection by the FCA and RSCA; (vii) uninterrupted services of
information systems and better integrity of data; (viii) overall enhanced regional integration in Southeast
Europe; and (ix) closer approximation with EU standards and procedures, as part of the European
integration process.

The project was not very complex in terms of design or implementation. It was fairly demanding, however,
because: (i) the Project Implementation Team (PIT) required significant follow-up on many issues such as
procurement and performance monitoring measurements at Border Crossing Points (BCPs); (ii) the
political structure of the country was not very conducive for a faster pace of project implementation. (iii)
project implementation required a high level commitment of both entities (RS and FBiH) and the Federation
Government to accomplish good intra-, inter- and cross-border agency coordination ; (iv) the project
required coordination with other complementing projects financed by other donors, including the USA and
the EU; and (v) re-orienting Customs and other border agencies to become more service oriented
organizations requires a change in culture which cannot be fully achieved during the life of the project. In
addition, the existence of two Customs administrations, which had to be merged into one and become the
Indirect Taxation Administration (ITA), made the implementation more challenging.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three components, all related to achieving the project's objectives. These were
standard components replicated in all TTFSE projects. The technical, administrative and financial capacity
of the PIT improved significantly during the life of the project for effective implementation.

Component I: Improvement of Border Crossing and Customs Facilities (US$13.6 million: 92% of
the total project cost)

(a) Republika Srpska

This included: (i) construction of buildings and canopies at the Raca border crossing; (ii) construction of an
inland truck terminal (Novi Grad); (iii) purchase and installation of weighing scales; (iv) purchase and
installation of laboratory equipment and corresponding training of staff; (v) design and supervision of
works; (vi) technical services to monitor RSCA's performance at pilot sites; and (vii) training to enhance
inter-agency awareness and cooperation. These activities would complement ongoing reform efforts by the
RSCA supported by the CAFAO.




                                                     - 3 -

(b) Federation

This included: (i) construction of part of the new border stations at Izacic and Orasje; (ii) reconstruction
and building of inland terminals, including required information technology infrastructure; (iii) design and
supervision services; (iv) technical services to monitor FCA's performance at pilot sites; and (v) training to
enhance inter-agency awareness and cooperation. These activities would complement ongoing reform
efforts by the FCA supported by the CAFAO.

Component II: Trade Facilitation Development (US$0.5 million: 3% of the total project cost)

Included: (i) provision of conventional and distance learning training to participants in trade, logistics and
international freight transport in cooperation with the Bosnian Chamber of Economy (BCE) and other
professional associations in the field of road transport; (ii) improvement of cooperation between public and
private parties using a virtual forum; (iii) creation of a website and provision of corresponding equipment
to support information availability.

Component III: Program and Project Implementation (US$0.8 million: 5% of the total project cost)

This component consisted of: (i) services required to support the regional and national implementation of
the project. The regional support would consist of the secretariat services to the RSC. The national support
would comprise the support of procurement advisors and of an accountant, external auditing services,
support in the establishment of a financial management system, and training to the Project Manager and his
project implementation team.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG). The ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory.

As mentioned in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the
Government priorities, and met the critical needs of BiH trade and transport sector. Since the PIT had the
technical capacity, the quality of project design was generally adequate to meet the project's objectives.
During preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier projects in BiH
and other countries were considered and incorporated into the project design.

The project was prepared in collaboration and consultation with exporters; importers; producers and
consumers; road transport operators; freight forwarders/shippers; traders organizations and BiH-PRO;
Ministry of Finance (MOF), the FCA and RSCA; Ministry of Urbanism, Housing, Civil Engineering, and
Ecology (RS), Federal Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment; Ministry of Interior and the Border
Police, the European Commission, the US Government; International Road Transport Union (IRU);
Federation of International Forwarding Agents (FIATA); World Customs Organization (WCO); private
companies, and foreign investors. This kind of extensive stakeholder consultations, and the participatory
process in project preparation substantially contributed to the quality and readiness at entry.




                                                      - 4 -

During project preparation, three project designs were considered:

   Regional Program of Investment Projects: A regional program of coordinated border crossing
facilitation projects was expected to: (i) generate substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers,
and consumers in the trade partner countries of BiH; (ii) allow the program countries to share information
and introduce more consistent customs and border control procedures/operations; (iii) be flexible enough to
respond to country differences, the pace of European integration, and the impact of the EU enlargement
process; (iv) enable the Bank to coordinate with other donors that also implement regional programs; and
(v) reduce project implementation/supervision costs by near-simultaneous implementation.

   Separate Individual Projects Carried Out by Each Country: The possibility of preparing independent
projects for each participating country was reviewed and rejected since the achievement of overall project
objectives would be greatly aided by simultaneous standardization and harmonization of cross-border
institutions, operations, and legal frameworks among countries and in line with the EU Acquis.

   Regional Adaptable Program Lending (APL): A regional or "horizontal" APL, would have enabled
sequential entry of countries in the Program. This horizontal APL, however, was judged to be unfeasible
because: (i) it would involve "stretching" the APL concept; and (ii) the determination of triggers to include
potential borrowers based on the future value of performance indicators would have been a delicate and
risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program.

For the above reasons, the first alternative was preferred.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The project met its development objectives to: (i) reduce non-tariff costs to trade and
transport; and (ii) reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings. This is evidenced in the following
discussion of performance indicators.

After about four years of implementation, the project resulted in positive achievements such as: (i)
significant reduction of waiting time at both the borders and inland clearance terminals as a result of
streamlined procedures, introduction of selectivity and risk analysis, and better inter-agency cooperation
and awareness; this is reflected below in the indicators' results; (ii) improved dialogue with Customs
administrations in Southeast Europe (SEE) region, and in particular with neighboring Croatia, leading to
joint border facilities and physical integration of customs services; (iii) increased revenue collection as
shown by the national performance indicators, and a reduction of smuggling through use of selective
examination and border control equipment; (iv) constant monitoring of performance through indicators
leading to the building of a regional data base. These indicators enabled the Customs administration to
measure its performance over time. Additionally, and equally important, the performance indicator
database enabled comparison of Customs (and border) performance among neighboring countries against
benchmarks; (v) user surveys published for 2002 and 2003 on the TTFSE regional website; (vi) training of
SMEs' staff through the Trade Facilitation component; (vii) development of a regional website on trade and
transport facilitation (http://ttfse.org) for the benefit of the trading community, transport operators, and
foreign direct investors; (viii) favorable preliminary evaluation of the economic impact of the regional
program; and (ix) the preparation of TTFSE Annual Progress Reports. The closing date of the project was
extended by twelve months in order to allow the completion of the works at Raca BCP and the installation
of the laboratory equipment and training of staff.




                                                      - 5 -

The project has also contributed in reducing smuggling at border crossings through the use of selective
examination (based on risk analysis) and border control equipment. The equipment purchased from the
project assets, risk assessment training sessions and defining of selectivity criteria have, during the
implementation period, increased the rate of Customs frauds detection by 23%. There were significant
achievements in detecting Customs fraud such as fake goods classification and tariff rate determination.
The improvement rate of 40% was achieved detecting smuggling during the period August 2004 to August
2005 (according to the data provided by Sector for Law Enforcement Monitoring).

Anecdotal evidence has shown that, through supporting electronic data interchange, the project has
enhanced processing transparency, thus reducing corruption opportunities at border crossings. Further
strengthening of the Customs Information system, as well as enhancing inter-agency information exchange
will further reduce corruption opportunities. According to the BEEPS Survey , corruption perceived as a
                                                                                 1


problem doing business by firms in BiH reduced from 60% in 2002, to 48% in 2005. The same Survey also
showed that percentage of firms that stated that bribery is frequent for Customs, reduced from 30% in 2002
to 15% in 2005.

The performance at the macro level was affected by the signed free trade agreements, which considerably
reduced the revenue from Customs duties. This drop in Customs revenue was partially compensated by the
introduction of new taxes collected on excise goods at the borders.

The project was successful at raising the awareness of the benefits of risk management at the pilot sites and
has had some very good results. However, due to the existence of two separate Customs entities during the
first years of the program and the subsequent integration of RS and the Federation Customs into the
Indirect Tax Administration beginning in the Fall of 2004, the full potential of the risk management was not
realized.

A. Customs Modernization

          Indicators         Baseline 2000       2001                  2002                    2003
                                 Act.       Targ.     Act.       Targ.        Act.        Targ.      Act.
 Development Objective
 Achievements
 1. Federation: Revenue          276         322     305.5       368          414.2       391       466.3
 Collected/Customs Staff
 (US$,000)
 Total FCA Cost/Revenue          3.17        2.6      3.12        2.1         3.15         2.0       3.05
 Collected (%)
 Salaries/Revenue Collected      2.12        1.5      1.91        1.4         1.55         1.4       1.63
 (%)
 Trade Volume/Number of Staff     3.0                 2.4                      3.2                    4.0
 (US$ Million)
 Annual Number of                314         450      287        600          333         700        372
 Declarations/Custom Staff
 2. Republika Srpska:           156.4        207     152.3       253         169.35       299       250.5
 Revenue Collected/ Customs
 Staff (US$,000)
 Total RSCA Cost/ Revenue         6.0        5.0      5.79        4.0          4.6         3.0       4.63
 Collected (%)
 Salaries/Revenue Collected       3.6        1.7      2.5         1.6          3.3         1.4       3.27
 (%)
 Trade Volume/Number of Staff    2.35                 1.09       5.50         1.30        6.50       1.61
 (US$ Million)
 Annual Number of                100         350     239.7        96         182.39        94       222.8
 Declarations/Custom Staff




                                                     - 6 -

                Bosnia and Herzegovina                                       2004
Revenue Collected /Customs Staff (US$,000)                                   498
Total Customs Cost/Revenue Collected (%)                                    2.78%
Salaries/Revenue Collected (%)                                              2.26%
Trade Volume/Staff (US$ Million)                                             3.8
Declarations/Customs Staff                                                 301.84

Exchange rate on 31.12.2004. - 1$ = 1,437687 KM

   The revenue collected /customs was $498,000 in 2004, compared to $276,000 for the Federation and
$156,400 for RS in 2000.
   Total Customs cost/revenue collected (%) in 2004 was 2.78, compared to 3.17 for the Federation and
6.0 for RS in 2000.
   Salaries/revenue collected (%) in 2004 was 2.26. In 2000, this was 2.12 for the Federation and 3.6 for
RS in 2000.
   The Trade volume/number of staff ($ million/staff) increased from $3.8 million in 2004 compared to
$3.0 million for the Federation and $2.35 million for RS in 2000.
   Annual Number of Declarations/Custom Staff was 301.8 in 2004. In 2000, this was 314 for the
Federation and 100 for RS.




                                                   - 7 -

Pilot Sites Indicators

                                       Baseline                                                        June
                 Indicators             2000        2001          2002          2003         2004      2005
                                        Act.    Targ.    Act.  Targ.   Act.  Targ. Act.  Targ.  Act.   Act.
 Bosanska Gradiska Pilot
 % of Trucks Examined                             40            20     Sus    10     0    10     0      0
 Irregularities/Physical Exams(%)                 10            10            10     0    10     0      0
 Average Border Exit Time (Minutes)               15     9,4    15            15    3,1   15     3,1    3,1
 Average Border Entry Time (Minutes)              80     50,8   50            30    4,6   30     4,6    4,6
 Number of Trucks - Entry                                398           668          550         981    841

 Banja Luka Pilot
 Import Clearance Time (Minutes)                  80    216,9   60    238,5   20    76    20    105    45,0
 Physical Examination Rate (%)                    20     99,3   15     100    10   43,7   10    58,1   32,0
 % of Trucks Cleared in less than 15              10      -     15       -    25   5,75   25    1,50   14,5
 minutes
 Irregularities/Physical Exams (%)                10     7,3    13      0     15     0    15     0      0
 Number of Trucks - Entry                                143            75          212         203    202

 Raca Pilot
 % of Trucks Examined                             40     100    20     100    10   15,7   10    16,5   19,5
 Irregularities/Physical Exams(%)                 10      0     10      0     10     0    10     0      0
 Average Border Exit Time (Minutes)               15     5,5    15            15    6,0   15     6,0    6,0
 Average Border Entry Time (Minutes)              80     89     50    130,8   30   18,0   30    17,0   17,5
 Number of Trucks - Entry                                422           341          388         388    342

 Grude Pilot
 Import Clearance Time (Minutes)                  80     77,2   65     63,5   50    48    50     47     47
 Physical Examination Rate (%)                    35     25,9   25     26,4   20   20,3   20    17,25  18,0
 % of Trucks Cleared in less than 15              10            20       -    30   16,75  30    11,5    5,5
 minutes
 Irregularities/Physical Exams (%)                13     13,2   14     9,3    15   11,4   15    10,5   12,0
 Number of Trucks - Entry                                147           163          172         126    118

 Izacic Pilot
 % of Trucks Examined                             50     100    30     100    20   19,1   20    15,25   15
 Irregularities/Physical Exams(%)                 10      0     10     2,1    10    20    10     7,5    1,8
 Average Border Exit Time (Minutes)               20     4,1    20       -    20    3,7   20     3,7    3,7
 Average Border Entry Time (Minutes)              50     96,9   30     80,3   20    41    20     27     28
 Number of Trucks - Entry                                346           192          225         316    230

 Orasje Pilot
 Average Border Entry Time (Minutes)              50    178,3   30    257,2   20    22    20     37     12
 Physical Examination Rate (%)                    50     87,1   30     33,1   20   26,3   20     5,0   19,00
 Average Border Exit Time (Minutes)               15     9,4    15       -    15     8    15     8      8
 Irregularities/Physical Exams (%)                14      0     12      0     10   1,86   10     2,5    2,5
 Number of Trucks - Entry                                765           815          613         1025   602


Pilot Site Performance. Compared with the other participating countries, BiH is one of the best performers
in Southeast Europe at its pilot sites.

Performance at all pilot sites was at or close to the targets except for Banja Luka ICS and the percentage of
irregularities detected at pilot sites in the RS. The transition from two customs organizations into one



                                                      - 8 -

consolidated Customs Department within the Indirect Tax Administration was instrumental in weakening
the ownership of the project. The performance of the pilots is presented below:

    The performance at the Banja Luka clearance has improved in terms of the import clearance time, but
is still with 45 minutes in average far from the target of 20 minutes. On the other hand, the percentage of
trucks released in less than 15 minutes has increased to 14.5% in average from 1.5% in 2004.
    The performance at BCP Raca in the truck examination rate 19.5% versus 10%. The rate of
irregularities detected has constantly been zero. On the other hand, the entry time of 17.5 minutes in
average has exceeded the target of 30 minutes.
    ICS Grude clearance terminal remains consistently at or near the targets. The performance
measurements confirm that the Grude ICS remains one of the best performers in Southeast Europe.
    Border entry time at BCP Izacic was 28 minutes in June 2005, while approaching the target of 20
minutes.
    The average entry time at BCP Orasje was 12 minutes in average and has exceeded the target of 20
minutes. The physical examination rate has been better than the target.

Regional Performance Indicators      2




Development of transport time and costs on the routes Istanbul-Bucharest, Istanbul-Tirana,
Sarajevo-Ljubljana

It should be noted that the transport fees of forwarders included in these costs do not reflect just the
situation at border crossings included in the project, but rather the situation of the whole transport market
of a TTFSE country and the extent of its stability.

         Route               Indicators                               Survey Period
                                                    Cycle 1               Cycle 2               Cycle 3
                                                   (2001/02)           (Spring 2003)        (Autumn 2003)
 I. Istanbul-Bucharest Average Time          No data available             24 - 48              24 - 48
                         (hours)             since Turkey was not
                         Average Cost (US$)  one of the three main      800 - 1,560           800 - 1,460
                                             trading partners
 II. Istanbul-Tirana     Average Time                 120                    90                   85
                         (hours)
                         Average Cost (US$)          1,900             1,500 - 1,900         1,500 - 1,800
 III. Sarajevo-          Average Time                 16                   17 - 24              18 - 24
 Ljubljana               (hours)
                         Average Cost (US$)        30 - 1,000           550 - 1,025           520 - 1,060

In general, there is an increase in the TTFSE region of transportation costs, that can be attributed - but not
limited - to: (i) increased range of services and share of services in total costs; (ii) influence of the
individual contacts of a forwarder and the chances (coming from bilateral foreign trade) to get load for the
return trip or not; (iii) development of road pricing on special routes; (iv) modernization of the truck fleet;
(v) a still unstable transport market; (vi) stronger enforcement of transport legislation within the EU-15
countries by transporters from SEE; and (vii) escalation especially in the price of fuel and lubricant but
also for tires and spares. More specifically, the rapid increase of truck traffic on the Sarajevo-Ljubljana
route (at Bosanska Gradiska border crossing truck volume more than doubled between 2001 and 2004) and
the introduction of new road tolls, have contributed to a slight increase of transport time and costs.




                                                     - 9 -

Customs Information System. The rolling out of ASYCUDA ++ was completed at all major locations in
2002. Since the beginning of 2003 it has allowed the use of module of selectivity in selective data
processing during the implementation of Customs procedure. This has enabled significant improvement of
Customs procedure performance and created necessary pre-conditions for risk assessment.

B. Trade Facilitation (TF) Development

(i) Strengthening of Public-Private Partnership

This component supported the activities of BiH-PRO, gathering main stakeholders from the private sector,
BCE, Association of Freight Forwarders, and the public sector, Foreign Trade Center, Ministry of
Economy, MOF of FCA, and RSCA. The outputs included:

   An extensive public outreach effort to raise awareness about trade and transport facilitation over the
years 2001-2005, in the form of articles and promotional editorials published in magazines such as
Newspaper- "Dnevni avaz", "Oslobodjenje", "Gazette" ; TV- "FTV", "Local televisions"; Radio- "Local
radios". As a constantly public outreach are used and issued to the participants total 10 printed books of
the training materials (over 4.2000 total copies) with all donors logo.

   Active Regional Opportunities to Cooperate. The PRO committees of Southeast Europe met three to
four times a year regionally to discuss about the Trade Facilitation component and other trade facilitation
issues. They also met regularly on a bilateral basis to address urgent issues and discuss cooperation with
CROATIAPRO and YUPRO (SCGPRO)

   The elaboration and release of a joint information platform for users (www.ttfse.org). The website,
designed and maintained regionally provides information on requirements of many border agencies in
Southeast Europe. Multiple regional coordination meetings were organized to define and build the platform.
Website is constructed and most of necessary data already exist. However, as elsewhere in the region, the
information has not been regularly updated. Main problems are: structural changes in the responsible
institutions, lack of funds, and changes in legislation.

(ii) Improvement of the Performance of Trade Facilitation Agents

Training. BiH was the first of our SEE countries to have launched two training programs for road
transport operators and freight forwarders, accredited internationally by the IRU and FIATA, the
respective international associations, under the aegis of the TTFSE Program. The latest development is that
a licensing law for providers of road transport services, compliant with the latest European requirements,
became effective in 2005 and will use the training program put in place under the project as the basis for
the Certificate of Professional Competence for road transport operators.

The Institute for Education (ECOS) of the BiH Foreign Trade Chamber - has continued to conduct training
courses on a self sustained basis. The ECOS has received a certificate from FIATA, confirming that the
ECOS training complies with the FIATA standards and ECOS is accredited to release FIATA diploma in
freight forwarding, as the first FIATA accredited institute in the region. Also, ECOS obtained a certificate
confirming that ECOS is accredited to run the international road haulage and passenger transport training
and issue certificates of professional competence.




                                                      - 10 -

BiHPRO/BiH Foreign Trade Chamber conducted total 48 seminars with total 1140 participants in 21 cities
of BiH under the Trade Facilitation Component. Those training sessions gathered participants from
trade/forwarding/transport companies, Customs and the State Border Service. The training was well
received (70 to 90% of participants rated the training between 4 and 5 out of 5 for the various sessions) and
the course material printed in total 10 books was delivered (free of charge) to the participants, and is of
high quality. Training on INCOTERMS and the TIR Carnet system were the most successful.

Global Facilitation Partnership Distance Learning Initiative. The first program for BiH under the
Global Facilitation Partnership-Distance Learning Initiative was piloted in 2002 by the road transport
association in the Foreign Trade Chamber, in partnership with NEA and the IRU.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I. Improvement of Border Crossing and Customs Facilities

(a) Republika Srpska

(i)   Construction of Buildings and Canopies at the Raca Border Crossing. The construction of phase
I, financed by the EU was late, but phase II, financed by the project was completed within planned deadline
and opened in September 2005.

(ii) Construction of an Inland Truck Terminal (Bosanski Novi/Novi Grad). Construction of truck
terminal in Bosanski Novi/Novi Grad was cancelled because of the delay in receiving necessary permits
from Municipal administration. However, it was agreed that construction of this terminal will be
implemented with European Commission's funds. Project documentation for this relocated terminal was
provided under the project.

(iii) Purchase and Installation of Weighing Scales. Eight weighting scales were procured and they are
located at three border crossings and five truck terminals.

(iv) Purchase of Laboratory Equipment and Corresponding Training. Laboratory equipment has been
installed and training of staff is in progress. Customs administration took over obligation to ensure
adequate laboratory premises. However, this was not addressed in timely manner, so it was not possible to
complete equipment installation and training of staff.

(v) Design and Supervision of Works. Design of the truck terminal at Brod was provided under
consultant services. In addition, supervision of construction and technical inspection of works at the border
crossing Raca, were also financed under the project.

(vi) Technical Services to Monitor RSCA's Performance at Pilot Sites. This component was
implemented under the frame of the regional component of the project, supported by the USA grant. At
selected pilot sites (on two border crossings and one inland customs terminal) performance indicator data
was collected.

(b) Federation

(i)   Construction of Part of the New Border Stations at Izacic and Orasje. Construction of the phase
II of the border crossing Orasje was completed successfully within the deadline and this border crossing
was opened in February 2004.




                                                    - 11 -

Construction of the border crossing Izacic was completed within deadline. However, since construction of
access road to the border crossing was delayed (Federal Customs Administration was in charge for the
implementation), border crossing could not be opened in time. In the meantime, agreement was reached
with Croatia that Izacic will be joint border crossing (on the basis of reciprocity, border crossing Maljevac
in Croatia will be joint border crossing). The Bank supported this and additional works were executed due
to the functioning of the joint border crossing. Border crossing Izacic as joint crossing with Croatia was
opened on September 12, 2005.

(ii) Reconstruction and Building of Inland Terminals, including Required Information Technology
Infrastructure. This component was cancelled because it was implemented within the framework of
ASYCUDA project. Funds were re-allocated for completion of border crossing Orasje.

(iii) Design and Supervision Services. Design and revision of the design for the border crossings
Kamensko and Gorica were prepared under consultants services (European Commission took over
construction of these border crossings). Redesign for border crossings Izacic and Orasje was provided, and
after that supplemented to design for additional infrastructure of the joint border crossing Izacic.
Supervision of works on construction of border crossings Izacic and Orasje was contracted. The design of
the BCP Doljani was dropped from the project, because the location of the new facility had not been
determined by the relevant authorities in the Federation.

(iv) Technical Services to Monitor FCA's Performance at Pilot Sites. This component was
implementedunder regional component of TTFSE Project, supported by the USA grant. At selected pilot
sites (on two border crossings and one inland customs terminal) performance indicator data were collected
on a monthly basis over a 72 hour time period.

Training. Southeast European Cooperative Initiative/TTFSE Advisory Team (STAT), USA financed the
periodical training of Gradiska Border Crossing Point - Republic of Srpska (between the Republic of
Croatia and B&H) and Raca Border Crossing Point (between Serbia and Montenegro and B&H) Customs
staff and other border agencies' staff from the pilot sites on the data collection process and inter-agency
cooperation in order to calculate the performance indicators of the project.

Seminars on applying the risk profiles in selective and/or targeted verifications at the pilot sites in
Banjaluka and Bijeljina, on the basis of collected data from the pilot sites in the inland clearance terminals,
were organized in 2003, by the Customs Headquarters Risk Analysis Office.

Workshop. A Risk Management Workshop was held by the STAT team in Bucharest at the Romanian
Customs Directorate, in September 2004, where risk management team members from regional offices and
the headquarters attended. A manual providing operational guidelines to the Intelligence staff on profiling,
selectivity, risk assessment and risk indicators was prepared and delivered. The staff from Customs Fraud
Prevention Sector and the staff dealing with Customs value of goods participated in this workshop.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

Component II. Trade Facilitation Development:

See Section 4.1 (B).

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.



                                                    - 12 -

Component III: Program and Project Implementation

This component comprised services for the regional and national implementation of the project.

Regional Implementation

The BiH side actively participated in the RSC meetings involving high government officials from the
TTFSE member countries. By September 2005 nine RSC meetings have been conducted - in Skopje,
Bucharest, Sofia, Tirana, Savtat (Croatia), Belgrade, Chishinau (Moldova), Sarajevo (Bosnia and
Hertzegovina) and Milocer (Serbia and Montenegro).

The meeting of the TTFSE Steering Committee Working Group on Exchange of Information among
neighboring countries was conducted in April 2004 in Sarajevo. Representatives of TTFSE Countries and
observers of USA STAT and the Bank were among the participants.

National Implementation

The project was implemented by the PIT, which consisted of four experts - Project Manager, Procurement
Specialist, Accountant and Project Assistant. They worked under the direct leadership of the TTFSE
National Coordinator. During the project implementation the PIT members attended training courses on the
Bank's management, procurement and disbursement procedures.

Prior to the loan effectiveness, a financial management system was established for accounting, financial
reporting, planning and budgeting and the PIT carried out the respective activities. The PIT prepared all the
quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports using the more detailed Project Management Reports (PMRs). The
PIT was producing these reports, in general, within the 45 days limit after the end of each quarter. In
addition and as required, for performing the necessary audit services of the TTFSE project, an auditing
consultant acceptable to the Bank was appointed.

The PIT had adequate internal controls for the project, including regular reconciliation of bank accounts,
adequate segregation of duties, proper accounting policies and procedures and reconciliation of
disbursement summaries of the Bank with project accounting records.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project had an estimated net present value of US$3.2 million, based on the methodology used during
the project appraisal. Based on data provided by the Project Implementation Unit, while reduction in border
processing time was considerable (over 70 percent on average at pilot sites), the project total costs were
significantly higher than their appraised value, reducing the estimated economic rate of return to 19
percent. The total annual savings for users, resulting from reduction in border crossing time at pilot
crossings is estimated at US$4.6 million annually as of 2005. It is worth noting that in line with the overall
project objective of facilitating trade, BiH experienced solid trade expansion during the project life, which
is not considered directly as part of the analysis since it results from many different factors. It is likely that
the estimated trade benefit equivalent to 20 percent of transport benefits (US$1 million per annum as of
2005) used in the evaluation is an understatement of the actual impact of improved border crossings and
clearance facilities. The impact of laboratory equipment purchased under the project was not included in
this evaluation.




                                                     - 13 -

Costs

The project costs have been higher than what was originally anticipated in the Project Appraisal Document
for the civil work components. The total project cost was increased to US$16.7 million (excluding taxes)
versus a US$12.2 million original cost estimate. Costs were spread over five years instead of three as
originally foreseen, reflecting delays in civil works.

Project Benefits

The project expected two types of benefits: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times
at border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the
project.

Trade and Transport Cost Reductions. The savings on transport costs at the BiH border crossings and
the inland terminal where performance was measured under the project are estimated at US$4.6 million by
2005 versus US$5.7 million at appraisal. Delays at border crossings and inland terminals have been
substantially reduced with an estimated 73 percent processing time reduction on average for the five pilot
sites. These benefits were quite close to the projections made in the project appraisal document, but traffic
and processing time turned out to be slightly lower in 2001 than expected, while time reduction was in line
with overall expectation. The benefit stream also took about 18 months longer to materialize than originally
anticipated as a result of delays in institutional and physical progress. The daily cost of trucks did not
evolve significantly in the region (see Progress report 2004) and remained in line with the
appraisal estimate.

Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The link between trade facilitation, trade expansion, and Customs
revenue collection clearly exist but is difficult to quantify, due to the multiplicity of other factors
influencing the macro-economic development and trade of the TTFSE countries. Company competitiveness,
in particular their ability to deliver reliably their inputs in international supply chain, depends nonetheless
on their capacity to assess border transaction cost (direct and time cost) with a fair degree of certainty.
Since 1999, BiH, and other countries involved in the TTFSE program enjoyed strong growth of their trade
volumes. In BiH, trade increased from US$3.9 billion (1999) to US$8.5 billion (2004), with export
increasing to US$2.1 billion, while imports grew to US$6.4 billion. In the meantime, Customs collected
revenues increased from US$513 million to US$1.1 billion, despite reductions in tariff rates, illustrating
their ability to better capture legitimate trade. These macro performances are not directly attributable to the
TTFSE, but rather reflect industrial and economic changes witnessed in BiH, as well as a broad range of
technical assistance programs, such as the European Commission supported-CAFAO program.

For the purpose of the economic rate of return calculation a very conservative 20 percent of additional
transport benefits linked to increased trade was added, or about US$1 million per annum, as per the
approach used during appraisal. The 20 percent coefficient is based on broader research (Venables)
available at time of appraisal and considered appropriate by peer reviewers. Recent research in this field
(Trading on Time - January 26, 2006 - WB) indicates that, on average, one day of delay reduces trade by
at least 1 percent. Considering BiH trade of US$8.5 billion, a reduction of 1 day could translate into U$85
million of additional trade. Considering the significant reduction in border crossing and clearance time, the
consequent trade increase and the trade gain economic benefit linked to shorter time and improved market
access are likely to have been significant, albeit difficult to quantify. Accordingly, the ICR economic
evaluation retained the appraisal assumption instead.




                                                       - 14 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The fiscal impact of the project is considered positive, as a result of continuous performance monitoring
and new infrastructure at selected sites. The Customs administration increased their collections by US$595
million between 2001 and 2004 due to trade growth and a large program of donor support for Customs
(primarily CAFAO). The overall efficiency indicators (See Development Indicators) also underline
significant progress in the cost effectiveness of Customs (total Customs cost to revenue collected improved
to 2.8 percent in 2004 from 3.9 percent in 2001). Since the Customs administration is not a revenue
earning entity, no Financial Rate of Return was calculated. Part of the increase in revenue collection can be
associated to the enhanced processing by Customs, particularly at pilot sites. The calculation of direct
fiscal impact was however not possible since many factors played a role (trade increase, reduction in
tariffs, free trade agreements) and attribution of impact would be highly subjective.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. The project focused on procedural changes at the border, and the role of Customs in
processing of legal goods, detection of illegal goods and investigation of offences in order to enhance the
efficiency and effectiveness of these processes, facilitating trade and freight transport. It initiated the still
growing awareness on the importance of cross-border cooperation among neighboring countries. The
project was also instrumental in improving dialogue among Customs administrations within the region. For
example, since the first RSC meeting was held in February 2000 in Skopje (Macedonia), eight other RSC
meetings have taken place on a regular basis before the project closure, with an average of two per year.
They are likely to continue after the completion of TTFSE projects.

The project has also contributed to capacity building in the Customs administration. Customs staff have
been trained on using modern equipment, with new procedures and new systems which were tested during
the life of the project. More and more Customs staff are being trained by trainers who received original
training under the project. A main problem in this area was the delay in getting the risk analysis
implemented. Apart from difficulties in the very beginning, caused by lack of obvious software support to
this module, as well as by problems in defining assessment criteria, there is an ingrained resistance against
the use of what is perceived to be intelligence based use of information.

Monitoring the performance of Customs administration using key performance indicators has led to
substantial institutional development impact. Even though these indicators were initially tested on three
pilot sites, they are now replicated in 50-60 more Customs stations, and would be extended very soon to all
the Customs stations in BiH. The ASYCUDA customs information system introduced by the project has
increased the Customs Department's capacity to monitor collecting of customs duties and to make effective
use of its financial resources.

The project was instrumental in creating local project teams (LPTs), which were semi-informal structures
with representatives of each entity administration working together at border/customs sites (Customs,
Veterinary, Health, Police and Phyto-sanitary inspections). It also provided technical assistance and
advisory services to trade and international transport participants through BiH-PRO Committee. They also
organized numerous professional seminars on improvement of transport and Customs procedures (simplified
Customs procedure) for the representatives from various economic groups affiliated with Foreign Trade Chamber
of BiH.

The three-year Users Survey comparative results published on the TTFSE regional website, provided a diagnostic
of the overall Customs environment from the users' perspective in a transparent manner, thus contributing to a
substantial improvement of the dialogue between Customs and its clients, that will be useful to the Indirect
Taxation Authority (ITA) during the process of Value-Added Tax (VAT) implementation for establishing good
communication with businessmen and traders.



                                                     - 15 -

The joint facility at the BCP Izacic was completed and the offices for the use of Croatian border agencies
were constructed and opened in September 2005. On the other hand, the joint facility at the BCP Maljevac
in Croatia was constructed with the offices for the use of BiH border agencies and opened in October 2005.
The purchase of the furniture for the BPC Izacic was included in the EU financed furniture.

ITA at the state level was established at the beginning of 2004. The headquarter is placed in Banja Luka.
Four regional Customs and Tax Centers (in Banjaluka, Tuzla, Sarajevo and Mostar), through their
organizational units of Customs offices, are being created to implement the procedures defined by the ITA.
The ITA will have four departments with their corresponding directors: Tax, Customs, Business Services,
Law Enforcement (from the tax and customs angles) and IT sectors. Once fully established, the ITA would,
in full capacity, collect a very large part of budgetary revenue corresponding to all indirect taxes such as
Customs duties, excise and, from the beginning of 2006, VAT. All indirect taxes collected would be placed
on a special single account, already established, and then distributed among the State Common Institutions
based on the Law on Single Account, and among the RS Government, the Federation Government and
Brcko as well as for financing the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, based on a
distribution formula agreed upon between the two entities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Positive Factors

(i) The prospect of becoming a member of the EU on the part of all the TTFSE countries was a
common incentive, significantly motivating the ownership of, and commitment to, the project.

(ii) The preparation of the TTFSE Program was preceded by the SECI, which was sponsored by the
USA and the Stability Pact. The TTFSE was designed to mesh with co-financing from the USA under
SECI and seen as the first regional program under the Stability Pact. This gave the projects under the
program high credibility and visibility.

(iii) Excellent donor coordination among the Bank, the EU, and the US Government and their speaking as
one voice made a positive impact on the project. Collaborative mechanisms were created in both
Washington, D.C and the field, and recurrent missions visited Brussels for consultation.

(iv) The regional approach of the TTFSE Program, which was framed in a TTFSE MoU, including the
creation of RSC where the performance of individual projects could be compared with the performance of
neighboring countries and the sharing of experience and lessons learned created peer pressure among the
participating countries, which in turn generated a competitive spirit and motivated them to perform better.

(v) Strengthening the role of the private sector, especially with the emergency of PRO-Committees
under SECI, and the increased professionalization of operators through training, certification, and the
website under the project provided the beginning of a private sector watchdog function, monitoring
government performance and breaking down the resistance to data sharing in the sector.

Negative Factor

Despite the signing of the MoU, regional high political commitment to a regional approach did not materialize,
which reduced coherence of activities and results at regional level, thus sub-optimizing the benefits of the
individual projects.



                                                     - 16 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Positive Factors

(i) Building Cooperation Among Representatives of Border Crossing Agencies. Because of: (a) the
LPTs created at the border crossing points to promote collaboration; and (b) improved inter-agency
communication and cooperation facilitated through signing of a Protocol/Agreement promoted by the
Borrower through the National Coordinator, towards the end of project life, the dialogue and cooperation
among border crossing agencies had improved considerably.

(ii) Cross-border Cooperation of Customs. The MOF through FCA and RSCA initiated, updated and
implemented agreements with neighboring Croatia on joint border control teams to facilitate trade and
transport while reducing smuggling and increasing border security, as a part of the Integrated Border
Management (IBM).

Negative Factors

(i) Frequent change of leadership in FCA and RSCA had an adverse impact on the ownership of the
Customs reform program. For example, because of the frequent change of Minister of Finance, the project
went through periods of strong support and periods of weak support, depending on the personal
commitment of each Minister of Finance. In addition, the presence of two governments, one for the
Federation, and the other for RS added to the complexity of conducting continuous reforms.

(ii) Customs Performance. The revenue collected by the Customs dropped in 2004 and all performance
indicators in both the RS and the Federation worsened accordingly. One of the reasons was the
implementation of the signed free trade agreements, which considerably reduced the revenue from customs
duties. The other major reason was the transition period during which the two entity customs
administrations were being merged into one department of the ITA. The restructuring shifted the focus of
Customs officers to new challenges linked with a merger of such a magnitude and diverted energies from
substantive Customs tasks and responsibilities.

(iii) Counterpart Funding. During most of the project period, there were considerable shortcomings and
delays in providing counterpart funds, from the Governments of the entities, particularly on the side of the
MOF of the Federation of BiH. This situation seriously affected implementation. For example, lack of
counterpart funds caused a delay in the payment for works and their progress at Izacic and Orasje.

(iv) Laboratory Equipment. Even though the Customs laboratory equipment was delivered by the supplier
in November 2003, an appropriate premise for the installation and use of the equipment was provided only
in September 2005. This situation caused a delay in hiring and training of the staff who would be working
in the laboratory.

(v) The lack of coordination and cooperation in border crossing management by different
government agencies reduced project efficiency, e.g through maintaining different opening hours and shift
schedules.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
See Section 5.2




                                                    - 17 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total final cost of the project was US$17.0 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$14.8
million. The higher cost was mainly due to currency fluctuations during the implementation period.

The Bank financed US$12.36 million, the Government contributed US$4.64 million equivalent in local
costs. The US Government financed a major technical assistance component under the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The sustainability of the project is considered likely for several overarching reasons: (i) considering
that BiH is keen to become a member of the EU, the Government would continue to make special efforts to
sustain the achievements of the project for a smooth integration with the EU; (ii) due to the high visibility
of the regional program and the project, and the wide publicity given on the results achieved, the public is
well aware of the recent developments and as a result, it will be difficult for the Government to backtrack;
(iii) Customs has already taken steps to move to the replication of performance monitoring at other sites;
this has been a decision outside the scope of the project; and (iv) the Bank and the Government are
maintaining a dialogue to continue the participation in trade and transport facilitation programs. At a June
2005 High Level Meeting in Zagreb, BiH Government expressed its support for the development of a
common regional framework for transport and trade facilitation in SEE.

The project supported values that are critical to fulfilling BiH's long-term objective of achieving sustainable
growth. Once these reforms are in place, the sustainability of the effort would be assured by transparency
in Customs operations, regular cooperation among different border crossing agencies including those of
neighboring countries, and the gains captured by all parties involved in legitimate trade. Continuous
upgrading of the Customs services, procedures, management, and equipment based on a re-engineered
budget would enable in the mentioned period to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological advance
and continued compatibility with the EU. The inter-agency and cross-border cooperation approach and
culture in facilitating transport and trade promoted through the project complement the European
Commission funded program on Integrated Border Management.

The monitoring approach using key indicators developed under the project is likely to be continued beyond
the project life, as the management of ITA is also determined to follow-up on performance monitoring as a
management information tool and plans to gradually expand it to all border and Customs inland locations in
BiH. For the continued collection of data, the Government has proposed that the Customs service itself
would take on this function according to an Action Plan that would gradually be applied to all borders and
inland terminals. The Action Plan was initiated outside the scope or requirements of the project. However,
based on international experience it is expected that there will be a need for continuing the performance
indicators monitoring with it being done by international experts.

Use of X-ray equipment, which is beneficial for the detection of smuggling, will also continue. In line with
the principles designed by the project, BiH developed an agreement with Croatia to create and carry out
joint border control procedures between Maljevac (Republic of Croatia) and Izacic (nearby Biha, Bosnia
and Herzegovina), which were both pilot locations during the project life.

One area which would require continued support for sustainability is the TTFSE regional website. The
sustainability of the website will require further financial support and commitment by the donor agencies
and MOF.




                                                     - 18 -

All organizational units are in place including Risk Assessment, which had encountered some initial
problems. There is a high degree of probability that the achievements will be sustained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory, especially in view of the setting of the project within a regional context. The identification
process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the region's trade and transport
sectors and then sought to match these with the specific needs and interest of the Government of BiH and
the evolving private sector.

The project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the Government's development priorities. The
Bank considered the adequacy of the project's design and technical, economic, institutional aspects,
procurement and financial management. Project design also took into account efforts with Customs reforms
elsewhere (e.g. crucial importance of software aspects), and was also built on similar projects which were
undertaken in parallel in six neighboring countries. In addition, the Bank assessed the project's risks and
benefits.

The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. Consultation with and participation of major stakeholders was a key strength of the project.
Various public institutions in BiH as well business community were consulted during preparation and were
closely involved in project implementation arrangements. Further, close collaboration and cooperation with
neighboring countries and the EU was another key feature of the project.

In addition, the Bank also covered in-depth sociological aspects and local issues while designing the
project. This included the conduct of separate focus groups with: (i) the staff of Customs and (ii) users to
better understand needs and priorities. The team considered options for promoting the development of a
new work culture within Customs, including the promotion of anti-corruption. The team benefited from a
good skill mix (including trade facilitation, Customs, transport, safeguard, institutional, and change
management specialists). This is reflected in the project design and enabled providing for flexibility and
responsiveness to local needs. The continuous presence of Customs experts (from both the Bank and the
US partners) during project preparation created a climate of mutual confidence and transparency which are
normally not easy to achieve in the realm of Customs, and in particular in SEE countries. The extensive
stakeholder consultations and participatory approach used by the team were highly productive, initiating a
process of ownership that proved invaluable at the implementation stage, and introducing elements for
gradual incorporation into the work culture of Customs.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. A Quality of Supervision Assessment was carried out by a QAG panel of reviewers for the
project. The panel rated the supervision of the project as satisfactory overall and also for all the four
categories: (i) Focus on Development Effectiveness; (ii) Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects; (iii)
Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes; and (iv) Candor and Quality of Project Performance
Ratings.




                                                    - 19 -

QAG noted that:

        "The Bank team was pragmatic and effective in working with the EU and other bilateral
        donors, and used well the leverage of working across eight countries at the same time. The
        Bank team has been invited to present the lessons of experience under this project to the
        European Commission, has good access at senior levels both in the EU and the US State
        Department, and its work has led to the evolution of a more over-arching regional
        recognition (MoU) of trade facilitation as a priority.

        Bank supervision helped maintain/consolidate stakeholder/client ownership, consistently tried
        to strengthen coordination and provide a regional focus, and was proactive in addressing
        problems. Business and industrial groups were brought in to stimulate and monitor the
        change process, and capacity was also strengthened with some 4,000 private operators
        trained. Several Bank actions taken in this regard were very appropriate. The project made
        good use of joint cross-border facilities between countries or states, wherever feasible, to
        improve efficiency and cross-country (or cross-state) collaboration. The Bank, EU and other
        donors made good use of an inter-agency consultation and steering committee as well as the
        WB-EU Commission. A shared Regional web site facilitated exchange of information,
        standards and trade and transport parameters across the countries and IFIs. Information
        exchange and sharing of data systems was facilitated through a Regional web site. The three
        Country Departments of the Bank responsible for the set of eight projects used as far as
        possible a common project team and coordinated across country programs through a
        Regional infrastructure group."

The ICR also considers the Bank's performance during the implementation of the project as satisfactory.
The Bank's task team was very proactive in the management of this project. In light of the complex political
environment and limited capacity of the Borrower, the task team maintained more frequent contacts with
the client compared to other countries. Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project
was adequately supervised and closely monitored. The Bank's client relationship was very cordial and
productive. Review teams included specialists in transport, trade facilitation, Customs, environment,
financial management, and procurement. External consultants were used for specific aspects of project
components. Supervision was regularly joined by the US Customs Assistance Team (STAT) at country and
regional level; the US experts brought their knowledge and expertise in the Customs institutional reforms
assessment, data collection, monitoring of performance indicators, and selectivity. The suggestions and
experience of the US experts were useful for risk assessment and goal setting processes.

Project implementation progress was adequately reported, and implementation problems were identified
early and addressed proactively. Performance ratings given in the PSRs were realistic, and sufficient
attention was paid to the project's likely development impact through the monitoring indicators. The Bank
enforced Credit covenants and remedies were duly exercised. The task team showed flexibility in suggesting
or approving needed modifications, and successfully worked with the Government, implementing agencies,
cofinanciers and other partners.

The Bank's Country Office in Sarajevo played a major role in monitoring the progress of the project,
especially on procurement matters, because of the availability of local procurement specialist there.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.



                                                    - 20 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. BiH's
commitment to the reforms under the project came from its interest in legitimate trade expansion and
liberalization. FCA's and RSCA's work with CAFAO to progressively align themselves to EU standard
acted as a significant stimulus for reforms. The Borrower confirmed its commitment by signing the Skopje
Memorandum of Understanding, participating to the first three RSC meetings and reviewing the
possibilities of launching innovative mechanisms, such as common border crossings with Croatia. Both
customs administration had also submitted their draft reform strategy. The government officials and staff of
the PIT worked in full cooperation with the Bank's project team.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Moderately Satisfactory. The Government implementation performance was moderately satisfactory.
However, in the absence of `marginal' ratings in the ICR Template, the ICR team is constrained to give a
Satisfactory rating in Annex 6.

As mentioned in Section 5.2, because of the frequent change of Minister of Finance, the project went
through periods of strong support and periods of weak support, depending on the personal commitment of
each Minister of Finance.

Counterpart funding availability was a continuous concern of generic nature, affecting not only the TTFSE
project, but all other projects as well. The Bank's project team and Country Management kept pressing
repeatedly for the Government to make available the resources needed. Financial performance was
correctly signaled by the team as problematic for this reason. It is not very clear whether the Bank could
really achieve a lasting solution to this issue although reminders helped to get funds released from time to
time. Financial Management (FM) was also an area with issues, and the presence of the FM specialist in
the Country Office helped address these. At the same time, however, it needs to be pointed out that, this
problem was faced not only by this project, but by all other projects. The issue was resolved smoothly
before the closure of the project and the allocated amounts were made available by the Government to take
care of the requirements.

While the project focused on the role of Customs as the main agency responsible for the control process of
goods entering, leaving and transiting BiH, the Government understood well the importance of coordination
with other border agencies. To facilitate this process, a National Coordinator was appointed who also
participated in the regular meetings of the RSC. The Government was responsive in establishing necessary
regulatory framework when needed and providing counterpart financing in time.

The implementation of civil works at border crossings was a complex task, involving various agencies
(Ministry of Transport, Border Police, Customs, Utility Agencies, etc.) and having to face the challenge of
keeping the border crossing operational and functioning. The Government facilitated good coordination
between various agencies resulting in completion of these facilities as scheduled, including a joint facility
with Croatia at Maljevac, one of the first joint facilities in the region.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The performance of the PIT, which implemented the project, was satisfactory. The PIT consisted of
competent staff and it was adequately funded. The PIT was actively involved in the implementation of all
components and was pro-active in flagging potential problems to the Bank. Monitoring and reporting to the Bank
were satisfactory. The PIT maintained detailed internal controls, and satisfactory accounting and reporting
systems, and auditing arrangements.



                                                      - 21 -

Both the Project Manager and the Procurement Specialist attended the Bank's specialized procurement
trainings and constantly improved their knowledge and skills in the Bank procedures. They cooperated well
with respective specialists and managers in the relevant agencies and ministries; with direct beneficiaries at
the border crossing points.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Project and Program-related Lessons

    Replication of Procedures at Pilot Sites. The lessons learned and the success experienced at the more
progressive border crossing points provide a model for replication in BiH as well as in other TTFSE
countries. The economic returns from such replication could be considerable, multiplying the economic
returns to date by several times. BiH should pursue in this direction, replicating changes in procedures to
border crossing points that were not included as pilot sites under the project, placing emphasis on
replication of joint border crossing facilities, and broadening the scope to include other modes. For
example, other countries including Bulgaria and Macedonia have already commenced replication strategy
for all of their sites.

    Interagency Cooperation at Border Cross Points. Trade facilitation is always a multi-sectoral and
multi-agency activity. For a project of this type where seven to eight agencies are involved, their active
participation and cooperation are essential for successful implementation and achievement of project,
objectives and also for ensuring sustainability. There is a need for strengthening the intra, inter, and
cross-border agency cooperation in follow-up activities, as there remain unresolved problems among the
agencies. In particular, the cross-border agency cooperation remains very weak, frequently depending on
voluntarism and goodwill of individuals without being institutionalized - e.g. through nomination of one
liaison officer per agency per border crossing who meet weekly/monthly.

    Customs control is expected to become more effective and efficient under streamlined procedures,
based on selectivity and risk analysis, but this requires a change of culture since the actual perception is
that more the vehicles are inspected, the higher the detection rate of irregularities. Experience from
elsewhere shows that targeted, in-depth inspections that are based on risk analysis of intelligence data yield
much better results, both in terms of detection and efficiency. In parallel, improvement of national and
international control procedures must be introduced to reduce delays and backlogs at BCPs. Adoption of
the International Convention on the Harmonization of Frontier Control of Goods can result in significant
benefits.

    Support for the TTFSE Website. Further cooperation and commitment from government agencies,
especially in the area of updating data in website are essential to make the regional website sustainable and
successful. Having an updated, informative website can contribute significantly to enhance transparency of
border crossing procedures and to reduce solicited `informal payments' at border crossings.

    Procedures on Border Stations. It is important to continue the modernization of procedures at all
border stations using as much as possible the rules and recommendations of the revised Convention on the
simplification and harmonization of Customs procedures (Kyoto Convention). Ultimately, it will be
important to create a one-stop office supply chain information system. For example, introduction of
electronic data interchange (EDI) based information flows, not only between border agencies but also


                                                    - 22 -

across borders with neighboring countries is an important first step, especially when freight forwarders and
shippers use EDI based cargo systems as well.

    Multifunctional Border Inspection Facilities. While constructing border crossing facilities,
innovative designs that allow future conversion into logistic centers, warehouses, etc, must be encouraged.
In addition, design of new facilities should reflect the available human resource capacity avoiding constructing
expensive overcapacity.

    Comprehensive Solutions for Border/Clearance Delays. The long lines of vehicles waiting to be
processed at border crossing points are symptomatic of the need for trade facilitation. Too often
governments cite physical deficiencies as the primary cause of the delays. Although the infrastructure at
border crossing points and internal clearing houses may need to be upgraded in support of trade facilitation,
such a physical investment by itself is not sufficient to solve the problems causing delays and hindering
trade facilitation. Factors such as constrictive regulations, policies, redundant or duplicative data entry and
procedures, and lack of coordination of border processing need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner.

    High Level Support. Building a tradition of inter-agency communication and information sharing as
well as building the mechanisms on which such communication can be based, needs a high-level
government commitment and ideally a champion. Such a champion needs to be able to direct concerns to
the highest levels of management in the ministries responsible for the agencies engaged in border control.
This implies knowledge of the national political system and the power to navigate through that system.

    Cumbersome visa procedures and requirements for professional drivers are slowing down especially
road freight transport. Development of an international drivers' permit, similar to the International
Seafarer's ID would speed up processing and could ensure application of common professional standards.

Bank-related Lessons

    The Bank's Focus in the Future Programs. The Bank must include `behind the border' issues in new
trade and transport facilitation programs. Most regulatory, administrative, and operational non-tariff
barriers at borders require some kind of reform at the institutional level. Good coordination with other Bank
projects, focused at improving the business climate in countries, is therefore required. In addition, programs
need to address legitimate security concerns and anti-terrorism considerations such as the recent ISPS and
IMO codes. Further, the Bank should recognize that, when the project involves several innovative reforms,
it is normal to have higher risks and higher rewards.

    Holistic Corridor Approach. In order to optimize the benefits of transport and trade facilitation
activities, taking into account the actual and projected trade patterns, a more holistic corridor approach at
regional level is warranted. Such an approach must include targeting both the physical and functional
`bottlenecks' of transport corridors to optimize their use and capacity, and must complement the EU policy
of transport corridor development which is targeting the strengthening of corridor infrastructure as well as
the improvement of a series of soft constraints, such as institutional capacity building, improved
communication and information sharing, etc.

    Policy Dialogue. It is important to start the policy dialogue at the very beginning of the project, and to
involve all important stakeholders, especially the private sector in order to identify trade and transport
needs and opportunities.




                                                      - 23 -

    Flexibility in Project Design. In a post-conflict situation, it is important that the design of the project
is flexible enough to adapt to the rapidly changing circumstances and priorities, and evolving expectations.

    Regional Approach. To further optimize the benefits of transport and trade facilitation through the
abovementioned corridor approach, synchronization of proposed activities at a regional level is required.
Trade and transport data show that most trade in the SEE region is not with neighboring countries, but with
the EU, Turkey and Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries, for which a uni- or bilateral approach
would not do much. Furthermore, a regional approach can create peer pressure among the participating
countries, which in turn would generate competitive spirit and motivation amongst them to perform better.

    Regional Programs. Unfortunately the Bank's organizational structure is not very conducive for the
preparation of regional programs. CMU's have `closed' programs, reflected in Work Program Agreements
(WPAs), CAS, Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), etc. which are constraining multi-CMU regional
programs that require synchronization of activities to optimize benefits.

Miscellaneous

    The contribution of the US as a parallel financier contributed to the success of the project. The
USAID Grant was instrumental in improving public-private partnership, especially in light of the
Government's reluctance to borrow for technical assistance to the private sector. Likewise, US Customs
financed permanent presence of Customs advisors in BiH (and the whole TTFSE region), providing advice
on customs modernization and assisting with data collection, monitoring indicators, and improving the
risk-management system in Customs administration.

    It is important to avoid overlaps with EU's Integrated Border Management. This will require close
coordination with EU so as to complement the Bank's activities and avoid any overlapping.

    As the Bank works more on multi-country operations, there must be a simple organizing principle to
help implementation/supervision. Over time, however, the need grows to address other systemic issues and
work increasingly with other agencies, as gains cannot be pushed further without doing so; but the first
demonstration effects are critical to generating momentum.

    It is important in multi-country operations to use the same project team across countries, and
effectively draw on cross country agencies as available (joint cross border trade and customs facilities, the
Regional Steering Committee and IT Coordinating Committee), while working across the Bank's own
internal boundaries between country departments.

    If complex types of civil works are included in a project, three year implementation period may not be
realistic, considering that such civil works involve land acquisition/appropriation, multi-agency
cooperation, including with those of neighboring countries, while at the same time, the border-crossing
points have to be kept open during the construction period.

Action should be taken in advance on regulatory and administrative procedures in order to avoid delays in
the completion of civil works or installation of equipment.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8.



                                                     - 24 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team Consisted of the Following Members

Paulus Guitink                    Task Team Leader
Sati Achath                       Consultant
Madhu Nair                        Consultant
Marie Laygo                       Program Assistant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the Project in Chronological Order

Gerald Ollivier
Paulus Guitink

C. Persons Interviewed for the Preparation of the ICR

Dirk Reinermann                   Country Manager
Ljerka Maric                      Minister of Finance, BiH
Slobodan Ecimovic                 Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade
Gerald Ollivier                   Former TTL and Transport Specialist
Nikola Kerleta                    Procurement Specialist
Kemal Karkin                      Project Manager, PIT
Faruk Jasarovic                   Director of Foreign Trade, Chamber of BiH
Zihad SInanovic                   Director of Foreign Trade, Chamber of BiH
Trivio Marinkovic                 Advisor, ITA
Flemming Larson                   Advisor, CAFAO

D. Footnotes

1 The EBRD-World Bank Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) is a joint
initiative of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank. The BEEPS has
been carried out in three rounds in 1999, 2002, and 2005 and covers virtually all of the countries of Central
and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, as well as Turkey. (It has not been possible to implement
this survey in Turkmenistan.) The BEEPS covers a broad range of issues about the business environment.

2 Source: PlanConsult Survey Results, May 2004.




                                                   - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators

                   Indicator                  Projected in SAR/PAD*    Actual/Latest Estimate
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Revenue Collected/Customs Staff (US$000)                                       498
Total Cost/Revenue Collected (%)                                              2.78%
Salaries/Revenue Collected (%)                                                2.26%
Trade Volume/Number of Staff (US$000)                                          3.8
Annual Number of Declarations/Custom Staff                                    301.84


Output Indicators

                   Indicator                  Projected in SAR/PAD*    Actual/Latest Estimate
Bosanska Gradiska Pilot
% of Trucks Examined                                     10                      0
Irregularities/Physical Exams (%)                        10                      0
Average Border Exit Time (Minutes)                       15                    3,1
Average Border Entry Time (Minutes)                      30                    4,6
Number of Trucks - Entry                                                       841
Banja Luka Pilot
Import Clearance Time (Minutes)                          20                    45,0
Physical Examination Rate (%)                            10                    32,0
% of Trucks Cleared in less than 15 minutes              25                    14,5
Irregularities/Physical Exams (%)                        15                      0
Number of Trucks - Entry                                                       202
Raca Pilot
% of Trucks Examined                                     10                    19,5
Irregularities/Physical Exams (%)                        10                      0
Average Border Exit Time (Minutes)                       15                    6,0
Average Border Entry Time (Minutes)                      30                    17,5
Number of Trucks - Entry                                                       342
Grude Pilot
Import Clearance Time (Minutes)                          50                     47
Physical Examination Rate (%)                            20                    18,0
% of Trucks Cleared in less than 15 minutes              30                    5,5
Irregularities/Physical Exams (%)                        15                    12,0
Number of Trucks - Entry                                                       118
Izacic Pilot
% of Trucks Examined                                     20                     15
Irregularities/Physical Exams(%)                         10                    1,8
Average Border Exit Time (Minutes)                       20                    3,7
Average Border Entry Time (Minutes)                      20                     28
Number of Trucks - Entry                                                       230
Orasje Pilot
Average Border Entry Time (Minutes)                      20                     12
Physical Examination Rate (%)                            20                   19,00
Average Border Exit Time (Minutes)                       15                      8
Irregularities/Physical Exams (%)                        10                    2,5
Number of Trucks - Entry                                                       602
*End of Project




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                                                                                           Annex 2a

Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

      Project Component           Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of Appraisal
 Part A: Improvement of                    11.7                        16.45                       140%
 Border Crossing Facilities
 Part B: Trade Facilitation                0.4                           -                           0%
 Development
 Part C: Project and Program               0.7                         0.55                         71%
 Implementation
 Total Baseline Costs                      12.8                        17.00                      132.8%
 Physical Contingencies                    1.2
 Price Contingencies                       0.9
 Total Project Costs                       14.8                        17.00                      114.8%




                                                                                                           Annex 2b

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)*

 Expenditure                Procurement Method                                 Procurement Method
  Categories                 Appraisal Estimate                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                   ICB     NCB      Other       NBF       Total    ICB       NCB       Other      NBF        Total
 1. Works          11.7     2,9                                    14,80
                   (8.8)                                          (10,40)
 2. Goods           1.0                          0.1                0.85
                   (1.0)                                           (0.85)
 3. Consultant              1.1                  0.6                          0.91
 Services &                (1.1)                                             (0.91)
 Equipment
 4. Training
 5. Operating               0.2                  0.2                          0.44
 Costs                     (0.1)                                             (0.20)
 Total             12.7     1.2                  0.9               15.65      1.35
                   (9.8)   (1.2)                                  (11.25)    (1.11)


Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants
under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements
for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.




                                                         - 27 -

                                                                                      Annex 2c

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)



     Component         Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
                                      Co-                         Co-                    Co-
                      Bank Gov't. financier  Bank     Gov't. financier Bank    Gov't. financier
                                     (USA)                       (USA)
Part A: Improvement of
Border Crossing       10.6   2.9      0.1    12.05     4.40             113    1.51        -
Facilities
Part B: Trade
Facilitation                          0.5                          -             -
Development
Part C: Project and
Program                0.4   0.3      0.1     0.31     0.24            77%     80%         -
Implementation

                      11,00  3.2             12.36     4.64




                                             - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Assumptions and Background Data

1. Project Costs

For donor funded project costs, the original estimates were kept, but spread over the life of the project.
Other costs (excluding taxes) were provided by PIU.

2. Key Parameters

Kept as per the original evaluation.

            Trade Related Benefits/Transport                               20%
            Savings
            Time Value (US$/day)                                           340
            Traffic growth                                                  3%



3. Traffic and Waiting Time

Data was provided by PIU in two stages. First stage: the PIU indicated levels of traffic that were
surprisingly high, which most likely came from the fact that measurement collection spread over three days
and the Daily Truck Traffic was rather the "Collection Period Truck Traffic". After requesting
clarification, the PIU provided the total annual traffic for 2005, which is consistent with the initial traffic
forecast divided by three. Hence the final traffic figures were divided by three in the ICR economic
evaluation.

During 2002, at some locations, border crossing time increased. This was not related to the project
(construction started later), and as such the increase in waiting time was not considered in the calculation of
waiting time reduction. The basis for waiting time reduction was not the highest time, but rather the initial
time value for 2001 provided by the PIU. This is a more conservative approach.




                                                     - 29 -

First Phase

Border Component

            Pilot Crossings                        2001                 2002                  2003                 2004                2005
 Bosanska Gradiska Pilot
 - Daily Truck Traffic (incoming)                  423                   839                   394                  675                873
 - Average Waiting Time (hour)                  Suspended                 -                     -                     -                   -
 Banja Luka Pilot
 - Daily Truck Traffic (incoming)                  119                    87                   104                  135                187
 - Average Waiting Time (hour                       4.0                  4.17                   2.8                 1.11                1.0
 - Import Clearance Time (Sept)                    3.61                  3.97                  1.26                 1.75               0.75
 Raca Pilot
 - Daily Truck Traffic (incoming)                  391                   306                   241                  287                338
 - Average Waiting Time (hour)                      2.0                  3.0                   0.70                 0.38               0.29
 - Average Border Entry Time                       1.48                  2.16                   0.3                 0.28               0.29
 (Sept)
 Grude Pilot
 - Daily Truck Traffic (incoming)                  158                   142                   159                  119                102
 - Average Waiting Time (hour)                     1.66                  1.30                  0.91                 0.76               0.78
 - Import Clearance Time (Sept)                    1.28                  1.05                   0.8                 0.78               0.78
 Izacic Pilot
 - Daily Truck Traffic (incoming)                  283                   227                   221                  265                207
 - Average Waiting Time (hour)                     1.19                  1.25                  0.72                 0.47               0.65
 - Average Border Entry Time                       1.61                  1.33                  0.68                 0.45               0.46
 (Sept)
 Orasje Pilot
 - Daily Truck Traffic (incoming)                  709                   798                   536                  631                629
 - Average Waiting Time (hour)                     2.65                  4.36                  1.18                 0.41               0.34
 - Average Border Entry Time                       2.96                  4.28                  0.36                 0.61               0.20
 (Sept)

-"Daily Truck Traffic" calculated on the basis of number of truck entries in one day of every month (average was taken from "Performance Indicator
data").
-"Average Waiting Time" calculated on the basis of measuring that time in one day of every month (average taken from "Performance Indicator
data").

Second Phase

Data on Entry of Freight Vehicles at the Border Crossings in Bosnia and Herzegovina

                                                                  Import/Entry
                                                                                      Period
                                                                        From                            To
                                                                                                                                 Total*
             No.                   Border Crossing              01.01 - 30.06.2005             01.07 - 31.12.2005                 2005
              1                           Gorica                        17.525                       21.556                      39.081
              2                            Izacic                       11.166                       17.682                      28.848
              3                            Orasje                       45.302                       27.774                      73.076
              4                             Raca                        14.266                       15.364                      29.630
              5                   Bosanska Gradiska                     28.121                       37.367                      65.488
                                                                                                       Total                     236.123

*Data in the table were provided according to internal records which were delivered to Project Implementation Team by the border crossing managers.
Data includes freight vehicles entering at the BC with cargo or without one, and import of goods and transit procedures.
Macro figures are based on the TTFSE Regional Indicator Workbook 12/2004.




                                                                        - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/2000               N.A.     N.A.



 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/2000               N.A.     N.A.


 Supervision

              09/21/2000                3    TTL (1); SENIOR CUSTOMS          S               S
                                             SPEC. (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1)
              04/26/2002                4    TTL (1); SENIOR CUSTOMS          S               S
                                             SPEC. (1); PAS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              02/06/2003                4    TTL (1); SENIOR CUSTOMS          S               S
                                             SPEC. (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              06/20/2003                3     TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1);        S               S
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              12/03/2003                3    TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1);         S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALIST (1)
              06/04/2004                2    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1)
              09/09/2004                2    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              12/06/2004                2    CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              06/20/2005                2    PROCUREMENT ANALYST              S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
              09/2005                   1     CONSULTANT (1)




                                              - 31 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    N.A.                             61.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         N.A.                           101.3
  Supervision                                   N.A.                           539.0
  ICR                                           N.A.                             12.5
  Total                                         N.A.                           713.3
Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.

SAP no longer provides information on staff weeks.




                                                     - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                           Rating
   Macro policies                        H        SU     M       N       NA
   Sector Policies                       H        SU     M       N       NA
   Physical                              H        SU     M       N       NA
   Financial                             H        SU     M       N       NA
   Institutional Development             H        SU     M       N       NA
   Environmental                         H        SU     M       N       NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction            H        SU     M       N       NA
            Gender                       H        SU     M       N       NA
            Other (Please specify)       H        SU     M       N       NA
   Private sector development            H        SU     M       N       NA
   Public sector management              H        SU     M       N       NA
   Other (Please specify)                H        SU     M       N       NA



Ratings for Achievement of Objectives relate to the objectives specified in the SAR.

Ratings for Achievement of Outputs of Components relate to the outputs specified in the PAD.




                                                       - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated January 19, 2006.

5. Project Appraisal Document for Bosnia and Herzegovina Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast
  Europe Project, dated January 23, 2001 (Report No. 20714-BIH).




                                                 - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

Prepared by the:
Project Implementation Team (PIT)
TTFSE Bosnia and Herzegovina

                Assessment of Development Objective and Design and of Quality at Entry

1. PLANNED OBJECTIVES

1.1    Original Objective

The Project, as a part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe, has
two development objectives:

a) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
b) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.

These objectives were planned to be achieved by: (i) supporting the reforms of the Federal Customs
Administration (FCA) and of the Republika Srpska's Customs Administration (RSCA) which integrated
during the project implementation into centralized Indirect Taxation Administration (ITA); (ii)
strengthening mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between border control agencies and the trading
community; (iii) disseminating information and providing training to the private sector; (iv) financing
infrastructure and equipment at selected border crossings; and (v) supporting the implementation, at pilot
sites, of an integrated set of new customs procedures, information technology, human resource management
techniques, supporting infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms for agencies at border crossings.

1.2    Revised Objectives

During the Project implementation the Objectives were not revised. The change has been made in name and
organization of Beneficiaries. Federal Customs Administration (FCA) and Republika Srpska's Customs
Administration (RSCA) incorporated into Indirect Taxation Administration (ITA) at state level.

1.3    Original Components

The Project consisted of three main components:
A. Improvement of Border Crossing and Customs Facilities
B. Trade Facilitation Development
C. Program and Project Implementation

The project implementation included following elements: (i) a project manager and a project
implementation team; (ii) two project coordinators; (iii) a facilitation coordinator; and (iv) regional steering
committee (RSC) which (except RSC) are extensions of existing institutions and use people already
involved in similar institutions.

The project director came from the state Ministry of Communications and Transport, as well as the
procurement officer. An external consultant was engaged as accountant. Project coordinators were at the
beginning of the implementation the General Directors of FCA and RSCA, afterwards officials of the ITA.



                                                   - 36 -

1.4   Revised Components

The Components were revised at the beginning of the implementation. There were concluded to change:

a) Under Component A it was cancelled: construction of a new Truck Terminals and Inland Terminals
and infrastructure for information technology for both subcomponents (it was only designed by this project
and construction was undertook by EC), as well as awareness training.

b) Under Component B at Border Crossing Izacic were financed broaden civil works on facilities for
border services of Republic of Croatia (joint border crossing).

2. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES

2.1   Outcome/Achievement of Objectives

In general, it can be deducted that Project met its main original development objectives. Reducing of
non-tariff costs to trade and transport by improving facilities on Border Crossings comprised by Project as
well as by faster and safer vehicles, goods and passengers circulation, inspection and processing over the
border line was achieved. Customs taxes collection is more efficient, there are no unofficial border
crossings in these areas, which proves that the fiscal impact of project is positive. It shows reducing of
smuggling and corruption at border crossings. Newly equipped, trained and organized customs officers
ensure identical application of new legislation, create partnership among border inspection agencies and
business environment to better coordination of procedures and information exchange.

The project is leading to greater regional cohesion. The implementation of joint pilot projects with Croatia
at selected border posts are strengthening regional cooperation at both local and state level.

As by Components, the effects of project implementation was as follows:

Component A
-   Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities RS
-   Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities FBIH
-   Equipment for Border Crossings
-   Design/Supervision of Civil Works RS
-   Design/Supervision of Civil Works FBIH
-   Awareness training

Component B
-   Trade Facilitation Development - expertise, advice, equipment

Component C
-   Auditors, Procurement, FMS and RSC
-   PID operating costs
-   Refund of PPA

2.2   Institutional Development Impact

This project has contributed to capacity building in the Customs Administration. Customs staff have been
trained on using modern equipment, with new procedures and new systems which were tested during the life


                                                    - 37 -

of the project. More and more Customs staff are being trained by those who received original training
under the project. A main problem in this area was the delay in getting the risk analysis done.

The equipment purchased from the project assets, risk assessment training sessions and defining of
selectivity criteria have, during the mentioned period, increased the rate of Customs frauds detection for
23%. There have been achieving good results in detecting wrong defined goods quantity and fake tariffing
Customs frauds. There were created conditions for detailed goods inspection that has a significant impact
on fake goods classification and tariff rate determination. This has also an impact on the percentage of
detected hidden goods and opiates. The improvement rate of 40% was achieved in this field in the period
August 2004 to August 2005 (according to the data provided by Sector for Law Enforcement Monitoring).

During 2004, two entity's customs authorities were substituted by the Indirect Taxation Administration
(ITA) at the state level. Once fully established, the ITA would collect a very large part of budgetary
revenue corresponding to all indirect taxes such as Customs duties, excise and, from the beginning of 2006,
VAT.

3. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

3.1   Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency

Positive Factors

a) Building Cooperation Among Representatives of Border Crossing Agencies
Because of: (i) the local Project Teams created at the border crossing points to promote collaboration; and
(ii) improved inter-agency communication and cooperation facilitated through signing of a Protocol
promoted by the Borrower through the National Coordinator, towards the end of project life, the dialogue
and cooperation among border crossing agencies had improved considerably. This process is still
underway: the design and development of the Integrated Border Management Project supported by the EC
with the funds provided from CARDS program are currently being carried out.

b) Cross Border Cooperation of Customs
The MOF through FCA and RSCA initiated, updated and implemented agreements with neighboring
Croatia on joint border control teams to facilitate trade and transport while reducing smuggling and
increasing border security, as a part of the Integrated Border Management Project.

c) Joint Locations of Border Crossings
This presents additional successful outcome of project which demonstrate rationalization of usage of
infrastructure facilities for Border Crossing Izacic in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Maljevac in Croatia.

Negative Factors

a) Laboratory Equipment

Although the supplier delivered the customs laboratory equipment in November 2003, an appropriate
premise for the installation and use of the equipment was not provided almost until the closing date of the
project (September 2005). This situation caused the delay in hiring and training of the staff who would be
working in the laboratory. This process is however finished at the end of the September. A part of
professional training had been done by that deadline, too.



                                                     - 38 -

4. SUSTAINABILITY

The project, by all means, supported values that are critical to fulfilling BIH's long term objective of
achieving sustainable growth. Once these reforms are in place, the sustainability of the effort would be
assured by transparency of Customs operations, regular cooperation among different border crossing
agencies including one's in neighboring countries, and the gains captured by all parties involved in
legitimate trade. Continious upgrade of the Customs services, procedures, management and equipment
based on reengineered budget would enable to cope with trade and traffic growth , technological advance
and continued compatibility with the EU. The inter-agency and cross-border cooperation approach and
culture promoted through the project are further supported by the European Commission funded program
on Integrated Border Management (IBM).

The monitoring approach using key indicators developed under the TTFSE Project is likely to be continued
beyond the project life, as the management of ITA is also determined to follow-up on performance
monitoring and to gradually expand it to all border and Custom inland locations in BIH. For the continued
collection of data, the Government has proposed that the Customs service itself would take on it's function
according to an Action Plan that would gradually be applied to all borders and inland terminals. The Action
Plan was initiated outside the scope of requirements of the project. There is need for continuing the
performance indicators monitoring with it being done by international experts.

In line with principles designed by the TTFSE, BIH developed an agreement with Croatia to create and
carry out joint border control procedures between Maljevac (Republic of Croatia) and Izacic (BIH), which
were both pilot locations during the project life. Significantly, these activities arises from the initiatives of
the staff of Customs administrations and other border control agencies, and not from World Bank. All
organizational units are in place including Risk Assesment, which had, encountered some initial problems.
There is a high degree of probability that the achievements will be sustained.

Achieved level of transparency of customs operations, regular cooperation with border crossing agencies in
neighborhood countries, gains accomplished in legitimate trade, efficient tax collection on border crossings
comprehended by this Project improved business environment in such way that a country's long-term
objective of sustainable growth is made possible. Process of infrastructure improvement, upgrading of
quality of customs services, procedures, equipment assured that BiH is now mainly capable to cope with
trade and traffic growth, technological advance, and continued compatibility with the EU. This process
started and supported by the TTFSE Project can not be reversed, and it is going to be continued by TTFSE
Project second which is related to facilitation of other modes of transport.

5. LESSONS LEARNED

The border crossing investment need to be supplemented by: reliable traffic data; accurate information on
waiting times; adequate remedial actions on both sides of a border crossing; linkage to national transport
policies; reliable telecommunication infrastructure and equipment; coordination and simplification of
customs procedures.

There were acquired positive experiences in improvement of border crossing control procedures using
selective approach method. That way, delays in traffic on border crossings and truck terminals are reduced,
and revealing and preventing of customs fraud and violation is increased.




                                                     - 39 -

Extension of introducing the selected verifications in Customs control will be one of the major factors in
improving clearance delays and increasing the effectiveness of the customs control. The better results
achieved at the pilot sites by using the selective procedure has approved its efficiency.

6. BORROWER'S AND BANK'S PERFORMANCE

6.1   The World Bank
The Bank through its broader lending and country assistance strategies is well placed to help promote
cooperation and coordination of policies and public spending. Supervision was regularly joined by the US
Customs Assistance Team at country and regional level. The World Bank experts brought their knowledge
and expertise in all aspects of customs activities such are institutional reforms assessment, data collection,
monitoring of performance indicators, and selectivity. The suggestions and experience of the Bank experts
were useful for risk assessment and goal setting processes.

6.2   The Borrower
BiH testified that it's commitment to the reforms under the project comes from its interest in legitimate
trade expansion and liberalization. Customs administration want to complete the upgrading of major border
crossings while simultaneously implementing it's reform which required coordinated and mutually
reinforcing actions in many areas. The Bank financed most foreign costs and, in the case of civil works, a
part of local costs. The Government needed to fund all other local costs, as well as all taxes and custom
duties. The provision of these local funds created problems during implementing of project. But the efforts
to overgrow the problem were made and benefits for the borrower are apparent already.




                                                     - 40 -

- 41 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 31072
                      Salzburg
                                                              15                           Bratislava                         20                                                                    25  Chernivtsi                                                                     30
                                                                                                                                    Miskolc
                                    A U S T R I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Yuzhnoukrayinsk
                                                                                                                                             Nyregyhza                                                                W  Siret
                                                                                                                                                                         Satu Mare                                                             M    Balti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                Gyor
                                                                                                   "                                                                                                                                                                            U K R A I N E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Suceava               O
                                                                                                                      Budapest                Debrecen                             Baia
                                                                                                                                                                                   Mare                                                              L
        Lienz                                                     Graz                         Szkesfehrvr                                                                                                                                          D
                              St Veit an                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                              der Glan                                                                      H U N G A R Y                                    Oradea                                                                                           Chisinau  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Iasi             V
                                                                                                   V                         Kecskemt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Piatra-                                A        Tighina
                                                            Maribor                                              V   X      IV                                                                                        Neamt
                                                                                                                                                                      Cluj-Napoca
                                  SLOVENIA                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Odessa
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Targu Mures             Bacau      Bacau
                           Ljubljana                                   Macelj
                                                                                                      Pcs               Szeged                       Arad                                                                                       IX

                                                                        Zagreb
                   Trieste                           Jankomir                                                                                                                        R O M A N I A
                                                                           X
    Venice
                                       Rijeka                     Karlovac  CROATIA                    Osijek                                                                        Sibiu                                        Focsani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Brasov
45                                                      Maljevac W           Gradiska         Slavonski
                                                                                               Brod   Samac
                                                                               WNovi                                         Novi Sad                                                      IV
                                                                                                 W
                   Pula                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Braila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                Grad                  W                                                       IV
                                                                                          Bosanska             Zupanja                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Buzau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                45
                                                                   C  Izacic              Gradiska                                                                                  Ramnicu
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                      Bihac                                C  W Gunja                                                                Valcea
                                                                                 Banja    Banja      Orasje
                                                                                 Luka                                                                             Drobeta-
                                                                                          Luka      Doboj    Raca C                                                                                   Pitesti  Ploiesti
                                                                                                                                                                    Turnu
                                                                                                           Tuzla          Belgrade
                                                                                                                                                                   Severin
                   A                                                            BOSNIA AND

   SAN                                                                                                                                                                       Craiova                                        Bucharest
   MARINO                 d                                                       Jajce     Travnik
                              r                                              HERZEGOVINA                                       FED. REP. OF                                                                                                       Constanta C      Constanta
                                 i   a                                          D Kamensko                                     YUGOSLAVIA                       Vidin W                                      Giurgiu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B l a c k
                                                                                                  V
                                          t                                Split         Grude          Sarajevo                                                                                                          Rousse
                                              i                                                  Konjic                      (SERB./MONT.)                                                      VII                   C Rousse
                                                 c                                                                                                                                                                                           Dobrich
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IX                                                                         S e a
                                                                                Gorica D                                                                 X
                                                                                              Mostar                                                                                        Pleven
  I T A L Y                                                                                                                                                Nis
                                                                                                                                                                           IV

                                                                                          D Doljani                                                                                                                                                     Varna
   Terni                                                                                                                                                          X                       B U L G A R I A
                            Pescara
                                                                                       Dubrovnik                                                                                                                             Sliven
                                                                                                                                                Pristina
                                                                                                                                                                     Sofia                            Plovdiv

                                                                                                                                                                 Pernik                                                               VIII      W  Bourgas

Rome  SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION                                              S                            Podgorica                                                                                  Stara Zagora                                   Bourgas

    TRADE AND TRANSPORT                                                         e                                                         Tabanovce
                                                                                                                                                                 C  Gyueshevo
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST                                                         a                                  Shkodr                           C      C
                                                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                                            Qafe        Tetovo               Deve
         EUROPE PROJECT                                                                                                                             Skopje
                                                                                                                           Morina   Kumanovo                 Bair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kapitan      W
      (BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA)                           Foggia                                                                                                                 Cotse
                                                                                                                                    Gostivar          FYR                                                                          Edirne
                                                                                                                                                                               Delchev                        Andreevo

                                                                                                          Durres                    VIII
              PROJECT*:                                                                                               Tirana               MACEDONIA                           Kulata
                                                                            Bari                             Durrs        Tirana                                            W                                                                   IV
          W  Naples
               INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                                              C  Kafasan        Prilep
                                                                                                                                       Struga   X
          D    DESIGN PROJECT                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                   Elbasan              Ohrid
                                                                                                                            Qafe                Bitola                                                                                                                                Kadiky
               PILOT BORDER STATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Istanbul                                       Sakarya
                                                                                                                           Thane                                          IV
               PILOT INLAND TERMINALS                                                                              ALBANIA                                        X

          C    COMBINED PILOT AND INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                  Taranto                                     Kor俉                                                                                                                                                               Golck
                                                                                                                                                                       Thessaloniki
40                                                                                                          Vlor
          II  PAN EUROPEAN TRANSPORT CORRIDORS                                                 Lecce                                                                                                                                                                                          T U R K E Y
              MAJOR ROADS                                                                                                  Ersek                                                                                                                                                    Bursa

              MAJOR RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40
    Mediterranean
              MAIN CITIES
                                                                                                                  Sarand                G R E E C E
             Sea
              NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          0       50     100     150     200                                                                                                                                 Balikesir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                 15                                                                                    20                                     Larisa                                  25                                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30
              *Subject to change as other projects are finalized.                           KILOMETERS                                       Trikala                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SEPTEMBER 2000

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 31073
                                               15
                                                                CZECH REP.                                          20                                                                 25                                           30
  GERMANY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION
                                                                                                     SLOVAK REP.                                                                                         UKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRADE AND TRANSPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                               Exports: Imports:                                                                 (BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA)
                                   AUSTRIA                                                                                                                                        $491 $815
                                                                                                                                                                               190/32 190/32
                                                                                                                                                                                 $3600 $3500                                                                           MAIN TRADE PATTERNS
                                                                                                                                                                                            To France
           Exports: Imports:     Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                       From France
              $767 $1616            $30 $136
              48/2 48/2            60/4 60/4                                                         HUNGARY                                                                                                               MOLDOVA
             $1400 $1400          $1500 $1700                                                                                                       Exports: Imports:                                                                                    IMPORT AND EXPORT PATTERNS (1998):
                                                                  Imports:                                                                           $1628 $2063
                                                                   $612                                                                             150/32 150/32                                                                                   EXPORTS (US$, Millions)                                        IMPORTS (US$, Millions)
                                                                   48/2                                                                              $2075 $2000
                                                                   $1300                                                                                                                                                                                                                Exports: Imports:     Thickness of line reflects Export amount
                               SLOVENIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $211 $300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Transport Time                  192/24 192/24                       Transport Time
                                                                                 Exports:                                                                                                                                                      (between capital cities)/                  $3800 $3800                       (between capital cities)/
                                                                                   $654                                                                                                                                                         Waiting Time @ Border                                      Thickness of     Waiting Time @ Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           line reflects
                                      Exports: Imports:                            24/2                                                                                     ROMANIA                                                            Crossing Points (Hours)*                                    Import amount    Crossing Points (Hours)*

                                         $432 $722                                 $850                                                                                                                                                                                                     Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                               From                                                                            Costs
                                         10/2 10/2      CROATIA                                                                                                                                          Russian Federation                                                                    (US$)
                                         $650 $650                                                                                              To USA    Exports:                 $1390                           Imports:                                                    *Average time and costs estimated
45                                    $4520                                                                                                               $319                                                     $1062                                                       based on surveys and estimates.


     Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
       $802 $1500
       72/2 72/2                                                                                                                                                       Exports: Imports:                                                  45
      $1900 $1900                                  Exports: Imports:                                       FED. REP. OF                                                 $1827 $2058
                                                       $141 $366             $1200                         YUGOSLAVIA                                                  130/32 130/32                                 Exports:
                                Exports: Imports:      24/2 24/2                                                                                                        $2180 $2100                                   $323                                MAIN MACRO-TRADE INDICATORS:
                                   $36 $182            $500 $650      BOSNIA AND                          (SERB./MONT.)                                                                                              80/12                                       GDP PER CAPITA, 1998 (US$)
  SAN MARINO                      40/3 36/3                                                                                                                                                                          $1015
                                  $700 $800                          HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $4000

                                                                                                                                                                Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                                                   $449 $723
                                                                                                                                                                144/36 144/36
                                                                                                                                                                  $1350 $1900                                                                                                                                       $2000
                                                                                                             Exports: Imports: Exports: Imports:
                                                                                         Exports: Imports:     $240 $242          $282 $255                                                                                        Black
                                                        Exports: Imports:                   $192 $353          24/5 24/5        96/12 96/12                                                                    From                 Sea                                                                             $1000

                                                          $144 $900                         24/4 24/4          $650 $650        $1800 $1800      Exports: Imports:                                       Russian Federation                                                                                         $500
                            Adriatic                      48/4 48/4                         $700 $700                                              $551 $396
                                                         $1900 $1900                                                                              96/36 96/36                                                       Imports:
                             Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Expor
                                                                                                                                                  $1700 $2300                  BULGARIA                              $1038                                                                    Impor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    240/36                                          Real
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ts                          GDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     $1600                                              GDP           (FOB)        t (CIF)           per
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                          Capita
    ITALY                                                                                                                                                                          $1230                                                                                                     in            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Exports:                                                               US$            US$           US$
                                                                                                                                                                                                           $339                                                                       billion        billion        billion      in
                                                                                                                                                                                                           32/5                                                                                                                      US$

                                                                                    Exports: Imports:                                                                                                      $800

                                                                                       $11 $30               Imports:               FYR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ALBANIA                             2.9            0.2               .8           810
                                                                                   192/24 192/24              $113         MACEDONIA
                                                                                     $3800 $3800              72/12                                                   Exports: Imports:                                                                 BOSNIA &                            4.1            0.8            2.5           1200
                                                                                                              $2000               $1290                                  $377 $297                                                                      HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                         48/5 48/5
                                                                                                 ALBANIA                                                                                                                                                BULGARIA                           12.3            4.6            5.0           1230
                                                                             Exports: Imports:                                                     Exports:              $900 $850

                                                                               $130 $352                                                             $97                                                                                                CROATIA                            20.5            4.4            8.8           4520

                                                                             144/24 144/24                                                          12/2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FYR MACEDONIA                       3.5            1.3            1.9           1290
                                                                             $2100 $2800                                                 Imports:   $500

                                                                                                          $810              Imports:      $149                                                                                                          ROMANIA                            38.2            8.3          11.8            1390
                                                                                                                              $32
40     To USA                                                                                                              192/24
        Exports:                                                                                                             $2800
         $175                                                                                                 Exports: Imports:                                                                                                            40
                                                                                                                 $26 $234                                                                                                                               0                      100                        200                         300
                                                                                                               96/24 144/24
                                                                                                               $1100 $1300                                                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                            Aegean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TURKEY
                                                                                                                              GREECE                                             Sea                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank

                  15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                     20                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEPTEMBER 2000

