Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20714 BIll
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.7 MIlLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR THE
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
January 23, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 25, 2000)
Currency Unit = Convertible Mark (KM)
KM1 = US$0.46
US$1 = KM2.15
SDR 1=US$1.264 (November 30, 2000)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL         Adjustable Program Lending
BCE         Bosnian Chamber of Economy
BiH        Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAFAO          Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office (EU)
ECMT          European Conference of Ministers of Transport
EU         European Union
FBH         Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FCA         Federation Customs Administration
FMS         Financial Management System
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IT        Information Technology
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
LAN         Local Area Network
MECU          Million of ECU
MFTER          Ministry of Foreign Trade and External Relations
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
PIT        Project Implementation Team
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
RS        Republika Srpska
RSC         Regional Steering Commnittee
RSCA         Republika Srpska Customs Administration
SAD         Single Administrative Document
SECI        Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
SME         Small and Medium Enterprises
TIR        Transport Intemational Routier
TOR         Terms of Reference
TTFSE         Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
UNCTAD           United Nations Conference for Trade and Development
UN-ECE          United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
WAN          Wide Area Network
WCO          World Customs Organization
Vice President:                   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:                  Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director:                  Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager:                   Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Program Team Leader:               Graham Smith, ECSIN
Task Team Leader:                  Gerald Ollivier, ECSIN



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ......................................................................                                                                  3
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ....................................................................... 3
2. KEY   PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ...................................................................... 3
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT ......................................................................                                                                             4
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ........... 4
2. MAIN  SECTOR  ISSUES AND  GOVERNMENT STRATEGY  ......................................................................                                             4
3. SECTOR  ISSUES TO  BE ADDRESSED  BY  THE PROJECT AND  STRATEGIC CHOICES ...............                                                      ......................... 8
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ......................................................................                                                                    9
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS ...................................................................... 9
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITnuIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT .............................................. 10
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION .......................................................................                                                           11
4. INSTITUrIoNAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ...................................................................... 12
D. PROJECT RATIONALE ......................................................................                                                                            14
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED  AND  REASONS FOR  REJECTION  ......................                                                 ............................. 14
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES ........... 15
3. LESSONS LEARNED  AND  REFLECTED  IN THE PROJECT DESIGN  . ............................................................... 16
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER  COMMITMENT AND  OWNERSHIP ................................................................    16
5. VALUE ADDED  OF BANK  SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT ............................................................                                          .......... 16
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ......................................................................                                                                     17
1. ECONOMIC ......................................................................                                                                                 17
2. FINANCIAL AND FISCAL ......................................................................                                                                     17
3. TECHNICAL ......................................................................                                                                                17
4. INsTrruTIoNAL .......................................................................18
5. SOCIAL ......................................................................                                                                                   19
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ....................................................................... 19
7. PARTICIPATORY  APPROACH  ....................................................................... 20
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ...................................................................... 21
1. SUSTAINABILIrY  ........                          .............................................................. 21
2. CRIICALRsKs ................RI....................................................... 22
3. PoSsIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS ......................................................................                                                           23
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS ......................................................................                                                                       23
1. EFFECVENE SS CONDmONS .......................................................................                                                                  23
2. OTHER .......................................................................                                                                                   23
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .......................................................................                                                                 24
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES .................................                                                                                                      24
iv



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1      PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
ANNEX 2      DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND SCHEDULE
ANNEX 3      ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
ANNEX 4      COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
ANNEX 5      FINANCIAL SUMMARY
ANNEX 6      PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE A        PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE AI       CONSULTANT SELECTION ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE A2       PROCUREMENT PLAN
TABLE B        THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
TABLE B 1      CAPACITY OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
TABLE C        ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
ANNEX 7      PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
ANNEX 8      DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
ANNEX 9      STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
ANNEX 10     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
ANNEX 11     EU SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
ANNEX 12     COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
MAPS No. IBRD 31072 AND 31073
v



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Date: January 23, 2001                              Program Team Leader: Graham Srnith
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman            Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: 7E-PE-70079                             Sector: TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit      Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data             []   Loan   [X]   Credit   []    Guarantee  [ ]   Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 8.7 million (US$11.0 mnillion equivalent)
Proposed terms:                        [X] Multicurrency      [   Libor-based Single Currency Loan, specify
Grace period (years):    10            [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed           []   LlBOR-based
Years to maturity:       35
Commitment fee:          0.5 % on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after signing less any waiver
Service Charge           0.75%
Fiuiandg plan (US$m).
Svur.me                                                    LOca              Forpign           Total
Republika Srpska                                             0.8                 0.0             0.8
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina                          2.2                0.0              2.2
Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications                  0.2                0.0              0.2
United States (US)                                           0.1                 0.6             0.7
IDA                                                          3.3                 7.6             11.0
Total                                                        66                  82              1A8
Borrower: Bosnia and Herzegovina
Responsible agencies: Customs Administration (Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina), Customs Administration
(Republika Srpska)
Esti*t*d Osbremets (IDA FY           :             FY 2001   FY 2002   FY 2003
Annual                                                0.5         8.1        2.4
Cumulative                                            0.5         8.6       11.0
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: June 30, 2001     Expected closing date: September 30, 2004
Implementing           1. Project Implementation Directorate (Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications)
Agencies:              2. Federation Customs Administration
3. Republika Srpska Customs Administration
Contact persons: 1. Kemal Karkin; 2. Branko Markic and Suad Handanagic; 3. Dubravko Rodic
Address: 1. Musala 9, 71000 Sarajevo
Tel/Fax: 1. + (387) 33 664 831; 2. (387) 33 207 775; 3. +(387) 51 316 246; E-mail: 1. Pidtrans@bih.net.ba



Page 2
The TTFSE Proiect: Key Design Concepts
How does this project differfrom the typical project?
Regional Character. The six TTFSE projects are regionally linked in a program supporting
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, fYR Macedonia and Romania in their effort
to foster trade. All these countries are beneficiaries of the Stability Pact'. They seek to promote
more efficient and less costly trade flows across the borders of the participating countries and
provide EU-compatible customs standards. This requires the cooperation of the participating
countries and a mutual sharing of concerns for the reform of their Customs services. To assist such
cooperation and facilitate the sharing of information, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC) has
been created. All participating countries are represented on this committee and have signed a
Memorandum of Understanding detailing its role and activities. The United States (US) is funding
a secretariat for the RSC.
Reform Combined with the Provision of Infrastructure. The program will support the
implementation of on-going customs reforms and focus on integrated solutions at selected pilot
sites located on main European corridors. Customs reform is an essential part of the activities
Bosnia and Herzegovina has undertaken to approximate with the European Union legal
framework. The pilots will enable measurement of productivity improvement across border
agencies, and shorter processing time at border crossings and inland terminals. Reforms already
undertaken will need to be supported at some border crossings by the upgrading of infrastructure.
The project will finance physical improvements at these border crossings, while critical elements
of reform proceed.
Non-Duplicative Structure. The TTFSE program seeks to help the Customs services implement
reform in a way least costly to the Governments. Governments will continue on-going customs
reforms supported by external contributors such as the European Union (EU) and will use grant
funding from the US and the EU for most technical assistance. In the case of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the EU will continue to provide all technical support for customs reforms.
Participatory Approach. The design and implementation of the TTFSE project is based on
participatory methodology to ensure that the project belongs to the participating countries and is
endorsed and owned by the various stakeholders, including the beneficiaries. Consultations with
customs officials and users have occurred during the design phase and mechanisms are built into
the project to obtain regular user input in the monitoring and evaluation process.
Building on Previous/Onaoing Initiatives. Several international organizations have recognized
the need to help countries in the region improve transit across borders and have provided
assistance to start addressing these requirements. The EU was the first to assist countries in the
region to address this issue. Its experience highlights the need for comprehensive reforms and
carefully selected upgrading of infrastructure. The Southeast European Cooperative Initiative2 also
promotes economic and environmental cooperation among the countries in the region, with a focus
on efficient transit, and combating corruption and smuggling.
'The Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe, adopted in Cologne on June 10, 1999 at a special meeting of Foreign
Ministers, representatives of international organizations, institutions and regional initiatives concerned with South
East Europe, commits these parties to the adoption of a comprehensive, coordinated and strategic approach to the
region, replacing crisis management with preventative diplomacy.
2 Consisting of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Moldova, Romania, Slovenia,
FYR Macedonia and Turkey, and established in December 1996 to promote regional economic and environmental
cooperation among the countries in the region. The initiative is being supported by UN-ECE, The US government,
and the governments of Italy and Austria.



Page 3
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objective (see Annex 1)
The proposed project forms part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast
Europe3 that aims to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control
agencies in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH), Bulgaria, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia and Romania. The Program, the result of a collaborative effort between the Governments, the
Bank, the EU and the US, has two development objectives:
(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.
The program will achieve these objectives by: (i) supporting the reforms of the Federal Customs
Administration (FCA) and of the Republika Srpska's Customs Administration (RSCA); (ii) strengthening
mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between border control agencies and the trading community;
(iii) disseminating information and providing training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure
and equipment at selected border crossings; and (v) supporting the implementation, at pilot sites, of an
integrated set of new customs procedures, information technology, human resource management
techniques, supporting infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms4 for agencies at border crossings.
In BiH, the CAFAO5 has already been leading technical support to customs refonns since 1996 and will
continue to lead this support during the life of the project. The preparation of this project has drawn on
the experience of and the data provided by the CAFAO. The reform process necessary to change
institutional cultures and ingrained behavior is expected to take a substantial time, about 8 to 10 years.
The reform involves simultaneous and sustained actions on: (i) change in administrative and operational
procedures; (ii) definition of staff profiles for the organization and hiring, training and deployment ; (iii)
elaboration and implementation of a staff development plan; (iv) introduction of up-to-date information
technology and regional interconnections; and (v) measurement of customs reform impacts at border
crossings and inland terminals.
2. Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1)
Progress toward the objectives will be monitored by key performance indicators covering FCA's and
RSCA's performance at two pilot inland terrninals and at four selected pilot border crossings, and by
overall efficiency indicators for the FCA and RSCA. The indicators include: (i) transport costs to/from
the three main trading partners and the transaction costs at these pilot sites; (ii) number of physical or
documentary examinations and their effectiveness; (iii) processing time; (iv) the value of recorded trade;
and (v) reported occurrence of corruption. In addition, a set of regional indicators will be used to measure
cost/time reduction in regional transport on three major corridors to evaluate the overall impact of the
program. A detailed set of indicators has been defined to follow the national and regional progress
throughout the project life (Annex 1).
3Referred to in this document collectively as "the program" and nationally as the TTFSE "project".
Including shared access to information and intelligence systems, and training for interagency awareness.
5European Union Office for Customs and Fiscal Assistance.



Page 4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: 20301-BiH Date of latest CAS discussion: May 18, 2000
This project would support the overarching objective of the World Bank Group for Bosnia and
Herzegovina: "increasing economic opportunity and improving the quality of life for the population";
and the specific objectives of "strengthening institutions and governance" and 'fostering private sector-
led growth and employment". This project would: (i) facilitate trade integration with Southeast Europe
and the EU; (ii) develop significant border infrastructure to enable greater regional integration; and (iii)
support the reform of the customs administrations.
The combined effect of institutional strengthening led by CAFAO (see Box 1) and infrastructure border
crossing improvements financed by the project would remove some of the existing excess costs linked to
trade and transport. It would improve the environment for the private sector by enabling more reliable,
efficient and competitive international transport services. The project would also support the enforcement
of several international conventions relating to the environment.
2MainSectorIssuesand         1. LoFvern menS rL tngyE
TradAe is hihlUsgnfundd.nt taossge the leadom rofe Byith Peuiaentoaut9 Iperentatof D Coni n 19s9
cuatstics iente Anndx4 indget taxationtinsues (teo hav)Te apmroedrame initiated with99 imsorat
recostrucion efuotos. Tade staxtsstems arnreiablsed ond modtliely Eunderestamadardseinealneowith the~
m)aitn Pexporparner are Swtzrlafnd,Grany,d Iteialy Ygservicsan, Soequipment froratheqiva.Temano
import~ parnes aeIlySlov~en ia, Croaiad an   bewentan e Ygsaiare s betncgoups a majo   theor prnerIy
fo tegiaFo}ederawion and   stoemsi tradey pavrtne fortaff Reubik defip.ska.. prd wtrovtide equipmednto
cot      =d ,on                                                               _  v)dfn  rai*ioa.n  nrsr.t 
a. Main      g Setr Issuesand GoermetStatg
Trade is highly significant to the economy of BiH, equivalent to aboout 90 percent of GDP in 1999
(Statistics in Annex 4, page 6). BiH continues to have a marked trade imbalance with imports
representing 3.5 times exports in 1999 reflecting the high level of international support to BiH for
reconstruction efforts. Trade statistics are unreliable and most likely underestimnate the real volume. The
main export partners are Switzerland, Germany, Italy, Yugoslavia, Slovenia and Croatia. The main
import partners are Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, and Germany. Yugoslavia has become a major export partner
for the Federation and is the main trade partner for the Republika Srpska. Trade with Croatia dropped in



Page 5
1999 following the termination of the free trade agreement with the Federation. BiH main exports
include base metal and wood or wood products.
In its transition to a market economy and sustainable growth, BiH will be affected by its current trade and
transport links. The waiting time at major BiH border crossings averages between one and four hours and
creates excess cost of over US$4 million to the trade and transport industry. Clearance time at inland
bonded warehouses commonly exceeds 24 hours. Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) face: high costs
to trade; unreliability and unpredictability of transport services; poor functioning customs and other
border inspection organizations; and under-developed logistic and freight services. Any strategy based on
the development of private small and medium enterprises is bound to miss its targets until better trade
connections with the outside world are established. The macro-economic effects are similar to those of
protectionist trade policies. Not surprisingly, foreign (private) direct investment in BiH has been lagging
behind other CEE countries over the past five years as a result of trade barriers and other factors such as
political risks and difficulties in operating a company in BiH. Foreign direct investment inflows were
only US$100 million in 1998.
The Government places a high priority on reducing unemployment by stimulating private sector
development through an appropriate legal and regulatory framework. Developing institutional and policy
foundations are parts of the ongoing efforts undertaken by the government with the Bank and other
donors to ensure the emergence of an enabling environment for the private sector.
The FCA and RSCA play critical roles in serving the Entities (Federation and Republika Srpska) and the
trading community. The FCA collected about DEM 587 million of revenues in 1999 and the RSCA about
DEM 262 million. The Entities have achieved some success in improving their services and reducing
trade and transport impediments. Private sector observers recognize these efforts but underline that
additional improvements remain to be accomplished.
The current situation reflects the following issues: (i) the unique settings of Bosnia and Herzegovina; (ii)
evolving procedures and documentation; (iii) the absence of proper customs facilities and information
systems; (iv) smuggling and corruption opportunities; (v) weak interactions between public and private
parties; and (vi) the need for strengthened regional cooperation.
a. Unique Settings Requiring Particular Care
BiH is unique in its political complexity, its structure of economic governance and the significant donor
support that has been committed to accelerate its reconstruction. BiH consists of two entities (Federation
of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska) with significant autonomy and separate customs areas.
State responsibilities include customs policies. Customs duties and excise are collected and expensed at
the level of the entities. Through an agreement on May 26, 2000, the two entities agreed to cooperate on
their future development and on the implementation and enforcement of customs legislation.
Nonetheless divergence of opinion between the entities often results in coordination difficulties with
adjacent countries, in particular in establishing and managing border posts, or for obtaining consistency
in border-crossing procedures. At the same time, it introduces severe administrative constraints regarding
the management of transit (there is no assurance that a shipment entering one of the entities will be
delivered in the other), with resulting smuggling (goods are taken back to the country of origin, although
VAT was refunded on the initial export), and loss of revenue. Another aspect is the difficulty in
obtaining a coordinated approach to Customs control and enforcement. This is illustrated, in particular,
by the large-scale smuggling that went on in one of the trade zones established on the border between the
two entities.



Page 6
b. Evolving Procedures and Trade Documentation
In preparation for the approximation with EU laws, the FCA and RSCA have aligned their Customs Code
with the EU Customs Code. The use of the Single Administrative Document6 (SAD) was introduced in
the RS customs services in 1996 and in the FBH customs services in January 1999. A reengineering of
procedures led by CAFAO, is taking place following the change in documentation, with the objective of
progressively matching the EU blueprints. By the end of 2000 all implementing regulations will be in
accordance with the blueprints.
The new Customs Code allows for selectivity, auditing, different treatment of importers according to
performance and compliance. The FCA and RSCA are also preparing a Customs Service Code that will
provide customs officers with the same powers as police officers, notably when addressing customs
offenses.
Stakeholders have indicated they have concerns' about: (i) the overall complexity of procedures (RS); (ii)
the level of corruption (RSCA and FCA); (iii) the variations in interpreting, understanding and
implementing new legislation and procedures (RS); (iv) the lack of political will to facilitate trade in
comparison with addressing other political issues (Federation); (v) the cost of bank guarantees and
absence of TIR carnet system (RS); (vi) the need for original documents (faxes are not recognized) in the
Federation; (vii) poor facilities that do not allow traffic segregation; and (viii) insufficient inter-entity
cooperation. The overall package of processes and procedures used by the RSCA was rated as poor
regarding its fairness, consistency, transparency, time required and right of appeal. It was rated as poor in
the FCA regarding its fairness and right of appeal.
c. Inappropriate Customs Facilities and Information Technology
In general, border crossing points are too poorly equipped to swiftly and knowingly clear the passage of
vehicles. Border crossing points were improvised when BiH became independent. The country suddenly
shifted from a domestic economy to an international economy, under which trade facilitation became
essential. An estimated 420 roads connect BiH to neighboring countries. The number and location of
official border crossings, currently 32, is being refined and agreed upon with neighboring countries. A
classification of border crossings, according to the type of traffic allowed to use them, will be finalized as
part of the process. Access to electricity or lighting of these sites is limited, and customs offices are often
housed in temporary containers. Communication means and IT at border crossing points is rather basic
with limited access to telephone or fax lines preventing timely and reliable communication.
BiH has been affected by the modal diversion to road traffic following the virtual closure of the railway
system. Contrary to Croatia, BiH has only just started upgrading its border crossing posts with the
opening in April of the Brod border crossing and in May of the Gradiska border crossing.
The operational information systems of both the RSCA and the FCA provide limited support to
operations or management and are not yet interconnected. The on-going introduction of ASYCUDA++
with the assistance of CAFAO should remove this obstacle. The establishment is scheduled for
completion in the fall of 2001 and will allow full compatibility between the two administrations and
treatment of data in the three official languages. Such a system would also address improved exchange of
6 The SAD is the document accompanying goods in transit, exported and imported. It was introduced in 1987 to
extend cooperation between the European Community and EFTA countries (Council Decision 87/267/EEC) in
parallel with the Common Transit System. By now, most EU candidate countries have also taken steps to introduce it
in trade with the EU. The use of SAD requires a fair level of standardization of customs procedures supported by
computer processing.
I Rated 7.5 and above on a scale of 10 by a focus group.



Page 7
electronic information with other countries or EDI relations and transfers with other national public
agencies.
d. Smuggling and Corruption Opportunities at Border Crossings
The current border procedures and administration are conducive to arbitrary processing by local officers
and provide opportunities for rent seeking behavior, i.e., corruption and smuggling, at border crossings or
at bonded warehouses. The practice of double invoicing, the under-valuation of goods, the falsification of
Certificates of Origin, the use of roads without border posts, and discriminatory payments depending on
the ethnic group of origin represent a large loss for the budget of the two entities. The resulting losses are
especially significant since the revenues collected by customs represent a large part of the budget of the
entities. The FCA and the RSCA in cooperation with the CAFAO have initiated a program of close
cooperation to prevent fraud and increase revenue collection. This program has achieved considerable
success over the past two years.
e. Improving Private-Public Interactions
Limited and sometimes late prior consultation with the trade community prevents meaningful and
constructive interactions. The Chamber of Economy and the BiH-PRO8 committee provide mechanisms
to reach more consensual decisions and consult the various stakeholders. The FCA and RSCA will
progressively become more accountable for facilitating trade. This includes the set up of mechanisms to
account for impacts such as unjustified delays in the departure of goods and cargo transfer, or down-time
suffered by vehicles. The FCA and RSCA increasingly provide training to its officers to improve the
quality of the interactions with the private sector or offers consultation mechanisms such as drop-boxes
for suggestions at border locations. These efforts receive strong support from the population. Further
efforts will be required to achieve the quality of EU customs services.
f Strengthening Regional Cooperation
Bosnia and Herzegovina, like all other participants in the Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
(SECI), recognizes the importance of coordinated actions to address the above issues and achieve the
objectives of the Stability Pact. It is also recognized that, to some degree, each country can expect to gain
more from actions to be taken by its neighbors than those it should take itself. A regional view has thus
emerged according to which participant countries will simultaneously apply coordinated and compatible
measures to reduce trade/transport impediments and corruption/smuggling opportunities. The regional
cohesion can be symbolized by the signing of a regional Memorandum of Understanding by the six
countries, as well as their willingness to benchmark country performance and to work on streamlined
solutions at paired border crossings9 (Map 31072). The support shown by the EU and the United Nations
Economic Commission for Europe (UN-ECE) as well as such bilateral donors as the US, reflects the
importance attached to the development and stabilization of the region.
The participating countries also see movement toward a form of integration with Europe as a major
strategic goal. The potential opening of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia would further justify the
TTFSE program by encouraging exchanges between western and eastern countries of Southeast Europe.
Professional body gathering public and private stakeholders seeking to improve international trade through the
sirnplification and harmonization of procedures and practices in administration, conmnerce and transport, in
accordance with LUN/CEFACT guidelines.
9 For examnple between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia.



Page 8
g. Border Delays to Rail Transport
The proposed program focuses on delays at road border crossings. Delays at rail border crossings are also
a cause for concern, particularly regarding long distance freight trains operating across Europe. Similarly
to road border crossing improvements, the most promising solutions involve simplifying procedures,
shifting inspections and other formalities away from the border through advanced processing of data,
using information technology to speed up, process and make more reliable the transfer of documents
about the rail wagons and their contents. The program does not directly address rail transport, but rail
traffic should benefit from the mechanisms for enhanced cooperation among agencies and among
governments.
h. Non-Operational Transit System
Bosnia and Herzegovina, unlike other countries participating in the TTFSE program, is not part of the
TIR system, which facilitates transit in international road freight transport. This system managed by the
International Road Union and a pool of guarantors enables transit traffic carrying a TIR carnet to cross
borders with limited control at the transit borders. Control takes place in the departure and arrival
countries and is recognized in transit countries. The absence of such system strongly penalizes Bosnia
and Herzegovina. The introduction of the system will require major institutional efforts in customs, better
regulation regarding access to the trucking industry, and a recognized and functioning road transport
association capable of locally managing the TIR camet distribution and monitoring.
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
The Project will address to different degrees the issues described above, apart from g, building on
previous efforts and taking full account of other external support to avoid any overlap. The Customs
reform efforts will be supported by CAFAO. The project will combine external resources from IDA and
the US. Given the interest of BiH in the implementation of EU-compatible standards and the need to
ensure the overall compatibility of the regional program, active relationships with the EU will be
maintained. The project will seek improvements in: (i) border infrastructure and equipment; (ii)-
laboratory facilities; and (iii) trade/transport business environment and professional performance. In
parallel EU will implement its assistance program on: (i) procedures of border agencies and legal
framework; and (ii) customs information systems.
The program integrates a number of mechanisms to achieve benefits that extend beyond savings achieved
at the borders of one country. The regional dimension of the project stems from: (i) the signature of a
regional Memorandum of Understanding providing the needed high-level commitment; (ii) a Regional
Steering Committee of high-level officials meeting quarterly focussing on border crossing issues; (iii) a
regional website harmonizing information access; (iv) joint pilot border crossings to ensure pragmatic
improvements to take place; and (v) regional training programs for the private sector to build up
communities of professionals with shared knowledge.



Page 9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project Components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The project consists of the following three components:
al. Improvement of Border Crossing and Customs Facilities -Republika Srpska
Includes: (i) construction of buildings and canopies at the Raca border crossing; (ii) construction of an
inland truck terminal (Novi Grad); (iii) purchase and installation of weighing scales; (iv) purchase of
laboratory equipment and corresponding training; (v) design and supervision of works; (vi) technical
services to monitor RSCA's performance at pilot sites; and (vii) training to enhance inter-agency
awareness and cooperation. These activities would complement ongoing reform efforts by the RSCA
supported by the CAFAO.
a2. Improvement of Border Crossing and Customs Facilities -Federation
Includes: (i) construction of part of the new border stations at Izacic and Orasje; (ii) reconstruction and
building of inland terminals, including required information technology infrastructure; (iii) design and
supervision services; (iv) technical services to monitor FCA's performance at pilot sites; and (v) training
to enhance inter-agency awareness and cooperation. These activities would complement ongoing reform
efforts by the FCA supported by the CAFAO.
b. Trade Facilitation Development
Includes: (i) provision of conventional and distance learning training to participants in trade, logistics and
international freight transport in cooperation with the Chamber of Economy (BCE) and other
professional associations in the field of road transport; (ii) improvement of cooperation between public
and private parties using a virtual forum'°; (iii) creation of a website and provision of corresponding
equipment to support information availability.
c. Program and Project Implementation
Includes the services required to support the regional and national implementation of the project. The
regional support will consist of the secretariat services to the RSC. The national support will comprise
the support of procurement advisors and of an accountant, external auditing services, support in the
establishment of a financial management system, and training to the Project Manager and his Project
Implementation Team.
'° Creation of an internet website that will enable exchange of views, user surveys and consultation.



Page 10
Cost Incl.           IDA
Contingencies  % of  Financing  % of IDA
Component                Category      (US$M)    Total  (US$M)  Financing
A. Improvement of Border            Civil Works/     13.6       92        10.6     97
Crossing/Customs Facilities         Equipment
B. Trade Facilitation Development   Consulting        0.5        3         0.0      0
Services!
Training!
Equipmnent
C. Project and Program Implementation  Consulting     0.8        5         0.4      3
Services                                 I
Total           14.8      100.0      11.0    100.0
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
Bosnia and Herzegovina has indicated its interest in an export-oriented development policy. The project
will supplement on-going policy and institutional reforms seeking the following objectives:
a. Strengthening of the FCA and RSCA
The capacity building component of the customs reform strategy supported by the CAFAO addresses in
particular the following issues:
-  approximation with the European Community legislation and implementation regulations, with
reference to the acquis communautaire" and implementation and enforcement of related legislation;
*  review of the schedule of penalties to strengthen their deterrent effect on offenders;
*  adoption of simplified and standardized customs and border inspection procedures (compliance
measurement and selective inspection based on risk assessment);
*  development of analytical expertise to develop and maintain targeting and selectivity tools;
* human resource management to develop customs/border inspection'2 expertise and enhance system
integrity;
*  training for customs personnel to ensure the uniform application of new legislation, to improve the
fulfillment of the mission of the RSCA and the FCA and to enhance integrity;
*  creation of a partnership among border inspection agencies and the trade/industry community to
better coordinate working hours, procedures and information exchange;
*  progressive introduction of audits and account management processing to facilitate trade data
exchanges; and
*  cooperation across entities in the implementation of regulations.
b. Strengthening of the RSCA and FCA Information System
Inprovements in systems in use through CAFAO's support would have the following impacts:
" All treaties, policies and Community legislation in force in the European Union, that must be accepted by all
countries wishing to join.
12 Border police; phytosanitary and veterinary services, road agency.



Page 11
*  elimination of multiple data entry;
*  creation of databases accessible in real time at main customs locations to support selectivity and
targeting procedures;
*  exchange of information with other government agencies for processing and enforcement purposes;
* support of international Electronic Data Interchange standards (UN-EDIFACT) to rapidly integrate
into the international trading community;
* possibility of electronic payment from users to the Government;
*  acceptance of electronic documents as official in customs procedures;
* monitoring of customs performance, traffic patterns and capacity use;
* information exchange with other governments in the region; and
*  reduction in corruption opportunities by decreasing and monitoring human intervention.
c. Strengthening Regional Cooperation
The project will lead to greater regional cohesion. The implementation of joint pilot projects with Croatia
at selected border posts will strengthen regional cooperation at both local and state level.
3. Benefits and Target Population
a. Benefits
The customs reform coupled with proper facilities and information technology will lead to transparent
customs procedures, a more reliable business environment, and economic growth as a result of lower
prices for imports and more competitive prices/services for exports. The benefits will spill over to
government agencies and private companies in other trade partner countries. This would translate into:
*  cheaper import goods / inputs for consumers and industries;
*  better and more reliable business environment for private sector activities, particularly for the trade
activities of SMEs;
*  a more predictable and reliable economic setting for foreign companies;
*  improved facilitation for transit traffic;
*  reduction of corruption and smuggling opportunities;
*  improved revenue collection by the FCA and RSCA;
*  uninterrupted services of information systems and better integrity of data;
*  overall enhanced regional integration in Southeast Europe; and
*  closer approximation with EU standards and procedures, as part of the European integration process.
b. Target Population
The beneficiaries of the reform would be transport operators, importers, exporters, freight forwarders,
other trade industries, foreign investors, and ultimately, consumers and producers inside and outside the
region.
Cross-border trade in the vicinity of the borders will be made easier for local companies. Travelers and
tourism would also benefit. A majority of the two million individuals crossing annually the border



Page 12
crossing at Izacic are comrnuting to work in Croatia. Improved facilities and procedures will shorten their
waiting time and improve their travelling conditions.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
a. Implementation Period
The project is to be implemented over a three-year period (2001-2004); it would be completed by March
31, 2004 and closed by September 30, 2004. The Regional Program in its entirety would be implemented
in about 8 - 10 years.
b. Executing Agency
The State of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the borrower. The Customs Services of the Federation and
of the Republika Srpska would be the beneficiaries. The implementation arrangements will include the
following elements: (i) a project manager and a project implementation team; (ii) two project
coordinators; (iii) a facilitation coordinator; and (iv) a regional steering committee (RSC). With the
exception of the RSC, these elements are extensions of existing institutions and use people already
involved in similar functions. The border agencies will all benefit from the improvement in border
crossing facilities.
The Project Manager comes from the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, which falls under
the responsibility of the State. The Project Implementation Team (PIT) under his management will
cover procurement, credit management and reporting functions in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The
PIT will coordinate the project management for the various beneficiaries, prepare terms of reference, hire
consultants, and contract for services, training, goods, and civil works as necessary for the
implementation of the project. The FCA and the RSCA have nominated their respective liaison officer to
interact on their behalf with the Project Manager and ensure that appropriate technical expertise is
engaged to support the Project Manager notably regarding technical aspects and supervision.
The Project Coordinators are the representatives of the MFTER and the General Directors of FCA and
RSCA, who will represent BiH at the Regional Steering Committee. The Coordinators will call and chair
coordination meetings of the various border control agencies and manage their inputs when required.
The BCE will manage the trade facilitation component using its nominated Facilitation Coordinator,
who will interact with the Project Manager for the implementation of the facilitation component and the
coordination of the regional website. The BCE has some experience in this field as demonstrated by its
lead role in the national facilitation organization BiH-PRO.
Given the scope (six countries) and complexity of the Regional Program and the related policy and
institutional reforms anticipated, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting periodically at the
regional level, will oversee the overall implementation of the program and the project. The participating
countries have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) setting up the RSC and held the
inaugural meeting in Skopje in February 2000. The RSC is constituted of high-level officials of
participating countries and donor representatives as observers. It will provide guidance for the necessary
sector policy and reform decisions. Meetings will rotate among the participating countries, with the
Project Manager of the host country providing support services to the Committee. Already three meetings
have taken place and have led to the creation of sub working groups on issues like one stop payment at
border crossings. The minutes of the meetings can be found on the TTFSE website"3.
" http:H/www.seerecon.org/Regionallnitiatives/ttfse.htm



Page 13
The UN-ECE is providing a secretary to the RSC to support the implementation of the program. The
secretary 14 will: (i) prepare the agenda, supporting documentation and minutes for the RSC meetings; (ii)
consolidate on a semi-annual basis the implementation reports of the countries involved in the program;
(iii) consolidate the annual review report of the PITs; (iv) assist in the trade facilitation efforts; and (v)
establish a link to the SECI-PRO committees.
In order to provide better understanding of border crossing problems, monitoring will take place at four
pilot border crossings located on the main international corridors and two pilot inland terminals.
Croatia will similarly be treating as pilot stations the facilities on the other side of the border, as part of
the program. A set of indicators for project monitoring has been defined and agreed upon (Annex 1). A
more detailed set of indicators for management purpose will be developed at these pilot sites. These
indicators will be used by each country to examine and allow the evaluation of comparative performance.
This framework will provide an assessment tool for identifying problems and tracking the success of the
solutions applied in each case, providing an evolving case study. The results will be progressively
updated each quarter by the PIT in addition to the indicators in Annex I and offered to the RSC for
review and comparison. The lessons learned from these case studies will be extended to other specific
border crossings in the participating countries and to change management in general. Sharing the case
studies, along with other project reports, with the customs services and transport associations in countries
not associated with the TTFSE will set quality targets in customs reforms beyond the region.
c. Procurement
Civil works, goods and services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA procurement
guidelines. The Project Manager has appointed a procurement specialist satisfactory to IDA. The
procurement specialist will receive training and will be supported by outside Bank procurement advisors
as required'5. The project component not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with
national regulations or the procurement regulations of the co-financing institution.
The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Table A of
Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement
actions is presented in Table A2 of Annex 6. Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review, the
capacity of the implementing agency in procurement, technical assistance requirements and the allocation
of credit proceeds are found in Annex 6.
d. Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
The PIT will be in charge of all accounting, reporting, auditing, disbursement, planning and budgeting
aspects of the project. A full time accountant has been appointed, based on suitable terms of reference. A
financial management system (FMS) including accounting, financial reporting, planning, budgeting,
auditing, and proper internal control systems has been established prior to Board presentation. A
financial management manual documnenting internal control procedures, staff responsibilities in the PIT,
payment instructions, planning procedures and other related aspects was developed. The FMS met the
minimum Bank financial management requirements (4-B LACI Certification). The Bank has reviewed
the FMS and prepared a report identifying weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to enhance the
system and enable the development of appropriate project management reports in view of the transition
to PMR-based disbursements. The Bank has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the steps
14 The secretary, to be financed by a US grant, will be sharing his time between his TTFSE responsibilities and the
management of the SECI-PRO committees
" The procurement advisors will be individuals with satisfactory country and World Bank procurement experience,
to be funded by the credit proceeds.



Page 14
necessary for further strengthening of procedures and staff development during implementation. The
FMS is compatible with OP/BP 10.02 and with the Project Financial Management Manual and Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Handbook, published by the Bank. The development of the
FMS will be monitored by the Bank before effectiveness, during the first supervision mission and
throughout project implementation.
The PYT will maintain all documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices. The PIT will have its accounts audited every fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing
issued by the International Federation of Accountants and Bank guidelines. The reports of such audits
will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
e. Reporting
The PIT will prepare quarterly progress reports and submit them to the Bank and the RSC secretary, who
will consolidate the reports on a semi-annual basis and then forward them to the Bank. These reports will
include: the progress of each project component, key performance indicators, and procurement issues
(actions dealt with, actions planned, and an update of the procurement implementation). The report will
measure performance against the implementation schedule and compliance with credit covenants.
f Supervision and Evaluation Arrangements
Supervision will be managed at the national level by Bank headquarters staff with the active involvement
of the Field Office and at the regional level by a program team leader from Bank Headquarters. The Bank
will devote some US$70,000 per year for supervision of project progress through FY2003. This includes
the Bank's contribution to the time of a senior customs specialist, jointly funded by a French trust fund.
Each October or November during the implementation of the project, the Bank together with the PIT and
the other contributors (EU, US) will conduct a review of project execution. The review will assess the
status of regional and national implementation and cooperation, progress made at the level of pilot sites
compared to targets, development of the information system, implementation of donor programs, and
productivity of the FCA and RSCA. The review will offer refined targets and objectives for the following
year and a set of recommendations. The schedule of procurement for the coming year will be agreed at
the time of the review, considering the progress to date in the institutional reform.
g. Monitoring
Overall, project monitoring will be based on performnance targets and indicators and the Project
Implementation Plan. This plan was finalized and agreed upon during technical discussions. Monitoring
will be carried out by the FCA and RSCA, assisted by consultants as necessary.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
a. Separate Individual Projects Carried Out by Each Country
The possibility of preparing fully independent projects for each participating country was reviewed and
rejected since the achievement of overall project objectives will be greatly aided by simultaneous
standardization and harmonization of cross-border institutions, operations, and legal frameworks among
the countries and with the EU.



Page 15
b. Regional Investment Project
A regional program of coordinated border crossing facilitation projects carried out more or less
simultaneously is more advantageous and was selected since it will:
*  generate substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers, and consumers in the
trade partner countries of BiH, which, if also implementing the program, will in turn bring
benefit to BiH industries and consumers;
*  allow the program countries to share informnation and introduce more consistent customs and
border control procedures and operations;
*  be flexible enough to respond to country differences, the pace of European integration, and
the impact of the EU enlargement process;
*  enable the Bank to coordinate with other contributors that also implement regional programs;
and
*  minimize project implementation/supervision costs by near-simultaneous implementation.
c. Regional APL
A regional or "horizontal" APL was considered, including Alternative b. above as a first phase, which
would have enabled sequential entry of countries in the Program and the delegation to the Regional Vice
Presidency of approval of operations according to a well defined operational blue print. This horizontal
APL, however, was judged to be undesirable because it would involve "stretching" the APL concept. The
determination of the future value of performance indicators to include potential borrowers to the program
would have been a delicate and risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program. For these
reasons, Alternative b was preferred.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector Issue                      Project                            Ratings
______________________     ________________________________        (Bank-financed   Projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Public Sector Management   Albania: Tax Administration                 S               S
Modernization
Trade Facilitation        Estonia Transport                            S               S
Transportation            FYR of Macedonia: Transit Facilitation      HS              HS
Transportation            Bosnia and Herzegovina: Emergency            S               S
Transport Reconstruction Project
Second Transport Reconstruction Project     S               S
Other development
agencies
CAFAO (EU)                CAFAO program of customs and fiscal
assistance
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 16
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
Bosnia and Herzegovina has recently started improving or building its border crossings. The FCA and
RSCA want to complete the upgrading of its major crossings while simultaneously implementing its
reform. Experience under other projects emphasize that the border crossing problem, by its nature,
requires coordinated and mutually reinforcing actions in many areas.
The Transit Facilitation Project in FYR of Macedonia completed in 1998 (ICR# 19408) highlighted the
need to: (i) tailor the complexity of the project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii)
ensure the capability of implementing agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the
borrower; and (iv) maintain flexibility to ease implementation.
EU-PHARE's experience shows that to lessen transaction costs at border crossings, border crossing
investments need to be supplemented by: (i) reliable traffic data; (ii) accurate information on waiting
times; (iii) adequate remedial actions on both sides of a border crossing; (iv) attention to multi-agency
needs; (v) linkage to national transport policies; (vi) reliable telecommunication infrastructure and
equipment; (vii) communication with users; and (viii) coordination and simplification of customs
procedures and removal of state controls on international trade.
These lessons are reflected in the design of the present project. It was tailored to respond to stakeholders'
concerns following active consultations. The project beneficiaries will cooperate with other agencies on
the implementation of integrated solutions at national level and local level (pilot border crossings). The
pilots will stimulate cooperation across borders and among agencies to optimize procedures,
communication links and monitoring of performance. Customs users will receive training to enhance
their professional skills. They will be encouraged to voice their concerns and priorities through the
regional website and the BiH-PRO committee and will receive accurate and timely information on
existing procedures.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
BiH's commitment to the reforms under the project comes from its interest in legitimate trade expansion
and liberalization. FCA's and RSCA work with CAFAO to progressively align themselves to EU
standard acts as a significant stimulus for reforms. Nonetheless divergence of views between Muslim and
Croat representatives within the FCA tends to undermine the impact of outside support and makes the
implementation in the Federation more delicate than in the Republika Srpska or in other countries
involved in the Program. BiH has confirmed its commitment by signing the Skopje Memorandum of
Understanding, participating to the first three Regional Steering Committee meetings and reviewing the
possibilities of launching innovative mechanisms, such as common border crossings with Croatia. Both
customs administration have also submitted their draft reform strategy.
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project
At the outset, the commitment of the participating governments to the TTFSE objectives was weak. They
were unwilling to fund border crossing improvements entirely from their own budgets; long-term
financing was more attractive to them. The EU and other contributors had limited capacity to fund
infrastructure. As to technical assistance, the governments were (and remain) reluctant to borrow for
foreign technical assistance because of its high cost relative to local salaries. The best solution therefore
was to combine IDA credit financing for infrastructure with ongoing support from the EU to the reform.
The fact that the Bank was willing to finance infrastructure only on condition that Customs reform and
institutional strengthening was carried out in parallel, has reinforced the attention given to the latter.



Page 17
Furthermore, the Bank through its broader lending and country assistance strategies is well placed to help
promote cooperation and coordination of policies and public spending.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$10.4 million (12% discount rate); ERR= 35%
The project is expected to have a good return/ substantial-risk profile with a potential for high retum. The
net present value is estimated at US$10.4 million on an investment of US$12.2 million. Two benefits
have been quantified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at border crossings
and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the project.
Waiting at border crossings is the concrete manifestation of inefficiency in trade related services. In the
European Union, customs administrations are required to keep 90 percent of vehicles waiting no more
than 20 minutes, or about 40 minutes to cross both sides of a border point. The difference between
present waiting times at BiH borders and a target of 40 minutes to cross both sides of the border has been
used as the basis to test the economic justification of investing in border crossing improvements. The
savings on transport costs are estimated in excess of US$5.7 million per year after 2005 for commercial
vehicles entering BiH. The reduction in costs to trade and the increased reliability of delivery times are
expected to lead, in the medium run, to a significant increase in trade volumes, which would make use of
existing excess production capacity. Extrapolating from analysis of some specific cases, the trade
expansion resulting from the project is assumed to generate a benefit equivalent to 20% of transport
benefits. The switching values and sensitivity analysis indicate a robust project. Reducing current
crossing time by 40 minutes would suffice to achieve an ERR of 12 percent.
2. Financial and Fiscal
The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be positive. The real volume of trade is probably much
higher than shown by official records, considering the importance of unrecorded flows towards Croatia
and Yugoslavia using non official border crossings and of under-estimated values for customs duties and
excise taxes. The improved performance of border crossings should provide the basis for an expansion of
the official volume of trade and generate additional customs duties and excise taxes.
The Bank will finance most foreign costs and, in the case of civil works, a part of local costs. The
Govemment will fund all other local costs, as well as all taxes and customs duties.
Given its high priority, the provision of local funds is not expected to create a problem for co-financing
the project. In parallel, the Federation needs to complete land purchase at Orasje and Izacic, and the
Republika Srpska needs to finance the first phase construction at Raca. These expenditures were
budgeted in the respective budgets for 2000. The Ministries of Finance will service the debt through
subsidiary agreements with the MFTER. The resulting financial obligations of the debt will be
sustainable.
3. Technical
The proposed works consist of new and reconstructed buildings, additional traffic lanes and parking,
control booths and canopies, fencing, utilities and truck terminals. The site and building works in the
project do not require complex design or construction methods, but they will require scrutiny to make
sure that they are dimensioned to match expected flows of traffic per hour, including provision of



Page 18
separate "green" and "red" channels, the separation of trucks from passenger traffic, and vehicle parking
space consistent with the speeded up processing. Design capacities will allow for peak travel times but
will guard against over-dimensioning. Building will be designed to improve the quality of service to
users, and will be dimensioned in accordance with EU standards. It will be necessary to employ full time
site supervision services of independent consulting firms to ensure the quality of the constructed product.
4. Institutional
a. Executing Agencies: Project Manager and his Project Implementation Team (PIT)
Implementation will be overseen by the Project Manager and his Project Implementation Team (PIT).
The Project Coordinators will assist the PIT in obtaining the input of the other agencies involved. The
Project Manager has recruited a procurement specialist and an accountant to carry out the accounting,
financial management and reporting functions. The established PIT will receive technical service from
the Bank's senior customs specialist and some support in relation to procurement. During negotiations,
the agreement on the organization, staffing, and resources necessary for the PIT to operate satisfactorily
were confirmed.
The PIT will be responsible for the overall Project financial management system and reporting. A
financial management system has been established for the Project in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and
the PIT staff has received the initial training to use it. A Special account will be opened abroad at a
foreign commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. Government contributions will be received in
separate Project accounts. The PIT will have the project accounts audited (including all special accounts
and all statements of expenditures) in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA), under
the 'umbrella' agreement for auditing WB projects in BiH (with Price Waterhouse Coopers).
Before World Bank Board presentation, the PIT was subject to a review and certification process
conducted by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist (FMS) to ensure that its financial
management system (i) satisfy the World Bank financial management requirements as stated in OP/BP
10.02 and (ii) can produce, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of
the project as required by the World Bank for Project Management Reports (PMR) - based
disbursements under the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
The result of the above assessment was that the financial management system for this Project meets the
minimum Bank's financial management requirements and the Annex 4-B LACI Certification was issued.
An agreement was reached with the Government on the remaining steps that are needed to strengthen the
financial management systems as mentioned in the financial management action plan. A detailed
description of the financial management assessment for the project is available in a separate document.
The project faces two major risks in the financial management area. One is that the PIT, comprising just
four officials, assumes the authority and responsibility for every aspect of the project thereby exposing it
to possible avenues of collusion and corruption. To address this risk, all the payment orders will be
signed by a representative of the Beneficiaries and secondly, the Customs officials will certify the works
done before the payments are made by the PIT. Moreover, within PIT segregation of duties amongst the
officials is achieved to a large extent. The second risk is that the project is exposed to delays in payments
to suppliers (due to multiple levels of signatures required) and inadequate counterpart funds in the
government project account. The experience on existing projects indicates that this risk to a large extent
is contained by adequate supervision by the Bank and has not been a major problem so far.
The Trade Facilitation Development component will be managed by the BCE in collaboration with
government agencies and the private sector. The BCE has designated a coordinator for this component.



Page 19
b. Project Management: Regional Steering Committee
The Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting at least once every four months, oversees the
coordination and implementation of the Program and the proposed project. The RSC is constituted of
high level officials (the project coordinators) of the participating countries empowered to implement
necessary sector policy and reform decisions.
5. Social
The project aims at improving access to knowledge related to trade, transport and logistics through the
training extended to the business community. The TTFSE website will allow access to all information
related to border crossings in the six countries involved in the Program, improving to a large extent
transparency, thereby reducing opportunities for illegal payments. The electronic forum under the
website will empower the business community in the region and outside by enabling it to voice its
opinion on the quality of the border services received and propose corresponding recommendations to
smooth trade and transport activities.
The project will have an indirect impact on the poor. The reduction in border crossing delays will reduce
trade and transport costs, and in turn, the cost of imported goods, leading to benefits to consumers and
lower cost of inputs required for local manufacturing, with corresponding creation of new jobs. This
import effect, however, will be partly offset by losses incurred by local producers when new imports
replace local products.
6. Environmental Assessment: Environmental Category   [] A   [x] B   [I C
Since the border crossing improvements involve enhancement of existing facilities or construction of
new facilities within developed areas, the Environmental Category is B. The scope of work includes
some expansion but no major fills are envisioned nor disturbance of forested or wetland areas. Removal
and disposal of waste and demolition materials should conform to international standards, and such
conformance will be a contractual obligation.
All designs for station improvements will ensure compatibility with local environmental regulations and
environmentally sound construction standards and procedures. All mitigation actions identified in the
permitting process conditions will be provided to IDA. The responsibilities of the FCA and RSCA
outlined in the Environmental Management Plan (Annex 10) have been discussed with the client, and the
client has agreed to implement the plan. The execution of these responsibilities will minimize negative
environmental impact and strengthen coordination and collaboration with the Ministry of Environment
and Waters. The Environmental Management Plan will be included as an annex to the PIP to be finalized
during negotiations by the government. The Customs Administrations will advertised the availability of
the EMP and make it available on request. Training will be provided to sensitize operational personnel in
the RSCA and FCA to environmental issues. In any event, the overall impact of the project should be
positive, since it should lessen waiting times and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles at the
border crossings.
The project will also enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international conventions and
agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant will be the regulations included in such
agreements as (i) the European Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by
Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES); (iii) the Convention on the International Carriage of
Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP), of September
1970; and (iv) Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and
their Disposal, of May 1992.



Page 20
A liaison officer has been designated in the RSCA and FCA to follow up the implementation of the
environmental management plan.
7. Participatory Approach
The project's design reflects views expressed by principal stakeholders including such customs users as
truckers and freight forwarders. Bank staff has conducted extensive interviews and stakeholder analysis
to identify trade impediments and their remedial actions. In addition, activities planned under the Trade
Facilitation Development component will foster opportunities for closer, more frequent and transparent
contact and feedback between Customs and the trading community on a continuing basis.
In support of the reform of the work culture for the FCA and RSCA, the project will make available a
consultant to assist focus groups of key stakeholders. This activity will be coordinated with other aid
agencies and existing stakeholder groups (BiH-PRO and BCE). The Government will also initiate a
public information program designed to reach stakeholders and the public. User surveys are envisioned
as a basis for performance indicators. Principal stakeholders, for example truckers, will be also involved
to monitor border delays. The project will make intense use of BiH-PRO and counts on its feedback to
monitor improvements.
The project has been prepared in collaboration (COL), consultation (CON), information sharing (IS) with
the following:
a. Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups
*  Exporters, importers, producers and consumers (CON)
*  Road transport operators and their association (CON)
*  Freight forwarders/shippers (CON)
*  BiH Chamber of Economy and BiH-PRO (COL)
*  Foreign investors (IS)
*  Ministries of Finance, the FCA and RSCA (COL)
*  Ministry of Interior and border police (COL)
b. Other Key Stakeholders
*  Ministry of Urbanism, Housing, Civil Engineering, and Ecology (RS), Federal Ministry of Physical
Planning and Environment (CON)
*  The European Commission, the US Govemment and other development partners (COL)
*  IRU and FIATA"6
* WCO
*  Private companies (IS)
A specialist in participatory methodology will assist in the design and implementation of a project launch
workshop in each country. The specialist will also provide a preliminary action plan, which will be
adopted as a guide for user participation under the Trade Facilitation Development component (Annex
2). The Action Plan will use output provided by the participants that attend the Project Launch
Workshop.
16 FIATA - Federation of International Forwarding Agents.



Page 21
As follow-up to the Project Launch Workshop, the Action Plan will include, for example, such activities
as a series of user focus groups as well as user surveys. The focus groups will provide an open index of
user satisfaction. Surveys of such key stakeholders as truckers and freight forwarders will provide the
basis for more quantifiable information as part of the verification plan for the performance indicators,
assuring a central role of such stakeholders in project monitoring. The Project Manager with the
assistance of the BCE will be responsible for implementing the action plan. The results will be reported
as part of the annual reviews.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The project will support values that are critical to fulfilling BiH's long-term objective of achieving
sustainable growth. Once the reforms are in place, the sustainability of the effort will be assured by
transparency in customs operations, regular cooperation among border crossing agencies including those
of other countries, and the gains captured by all parties involved in legitimate trade. Continuous
upgrading of the customs service, procedures, management, and equipment based on a reengineered
budget will enable the FCA and RSCA to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological advance, and
continued compatibility with the EU.
At the level of BiH, the risks of project failure are modest regarding infrastructure improvement but more
significant regarding the outcome of customs reform led by the CAFAO. The complexity of BiH makes
the reform more delicate than in other TTFSE countries, but CAFAO has substantial resources in place to
guide BiH on its way to the reform. At the level of the region, effective cooperation could greatly
enhance the developmental impact but is also subject to some uncertainty.



Page 22
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1)
Risk
Risk                     Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, "from Outputs to Development
Objective"
High level of smuggling continues despite      S    The program of customs compliance and enforcement
reduction in costs to trade and transport            (CAFAO) and random controls of smaller border post
will reduce significantly this risk.
Cooperation among border agencies faces inertia  S    The high-level coordinator will have the power to
and strong resistance.                              request meetings of the various border agencies.
Cooperation across agencies and across entities has
started with the signature of a cooperation agreement.
Political commitment is not adequate to resist  H    The approach will be consolidated, providing an
pressure groups (public or private) and to ensure    effective counterbalance to pressure groups; and
the success of the institutional program.            clearance procedures will be made more transparent. In
BiH the CAFAO will support the implementation of the
reform program.
Coordination by RSC is not effective and not   S     Donors are an integral part of the Program. Key
supported by donors.                                 decision-makers of each program country and
observers from contributor countries will participate in
the RSC.
Slow implementation of procedural changes     M      A programn of broad training/information to the
public/private sector will be established.
Slowdown in imnplementation due to complexity of    S    Resources to support the PIT have been increased for
the team                                             that purpose.
Regional cooperation issues prevent the        H     The MOU, the RSC, the regional website, the
achievement of regional goals.                       benchmarking and the willingness to cooperate with the
EU will create a favorable environment for proper
cooperation.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
The willingness to introduce significant changes at    S    The performance at pilot sites will trigger the launch of
pilot sites across agencies is low.                  procurement for physical infrastructure components in
years 2 and 3.
The targeting and selectivity techniques are not  S    The effective iniplementation of targeting and
effectively implemented at an operational level.     selectivity techniques will trigger the launch of
procurement for physical infrastructure components in
years 2 and 3.
High turnover of staff                        M      Proper human resource policy will be introduced.
Overall Risk Rating                            S     This is a substantial risk, good-return project with a
potential high return.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 23
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Type of
Risk                     Risk   Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
Delays in institutional changes             G          S      Coordination, direct support by
the CAFAO
Rejection by FCA and RSCA of corruption as a  G        S      The work at the RSC level and
significant issue                                             the cooperation with Croatia will
nmininize this risk.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
a. The Federation Project Agreement and the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement have been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Federation on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
b. The Republika Srpska Project Agreement and Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit Agreement
have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and Republika Srpska on terns and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
c. The Borrower has engaged auditors satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other (according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
a. By November 15 of each year, the Borrower and the Bank will review progress achieved under
the project including at pilot sites based on agreed performance monitoring indicators, and will
confirm the implementation program (including procurement packaging) and performance targets
for the following year.
b. By March 31, 2001, the Project Coordinators will establish a mechanism across all border
agencies to provide the Facilitation Coordinator with up-to-date information on waiting times
and opening hours at border crossings, Customs Code, bylaws, and procedures of border
agencies; this information shall be binding and made available to customs users in order to
contest a decision at a border post.
c. The Beneficiaries will actively participate in the Regional Steering Committee and support it.
d. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Federation shall take all necessary measures to
achieve the following targets:
(i)  the total number of customs declarations which result in a physical inspection by the FCA
at its pilot inland terminal does not exceed, on a monthly basis: (i) 35% by September 30,
2001; and (ii) 25% by September 30, 2002;



Page 24
(ii) the number of trucks completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland
terminal exceeds, on a monthly basis: (i) 10% by September 30, 2001; and (ii) 20% by
September 30, 2002; and
(iii) the number of trucks opened at its pilot border-crossings does not exceed, on a monthly
basis: (i) 50% by September 30, 2001; and (ii) 30% by September 30, 2002.
e. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Republika Srpska shall take all necessary measures to
achieve the following targets:
(i)  the total number of customs declarations which result in a physical inspection by the
RSCA at its pilot inland terminal does not exceed, on a monthly basis: (i) 20% by
September 30, 2001; and (ii) 15% by September 30, 2002;
(ii) the number of trucks completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland
terminal exceeds, on a monthly basis: (i) 10% by September 30, 2001; and (ii) 15% by
September 30, 2002; and
(iii) the number of trucks opened at its pilot border-crossings does not exceed, on a monthly
basis: (i) 40% by September 30, 2001; and (ii) 20% by September 30, 2002.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[]The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
Program Team Leader/Task Team Le  er: Graham               Ollivier, ECSIN
Sector Director: Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman, ECC04



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Design Summary
Sector-related CAS Goal.                                                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
Support Private Sector Development  Total Trade increasing from US$3.7 B in 1999 to US$5.9 B   * MFTER    Wealth is distributed appropriately to
in 2002                                                                  alleviate poverty.
Availability of information and training for the professional  * BCE     Facilitating trade expansion will lead to
involved in trade and transport activities                               higher GDP growth.
Strengthen Public Finance        Quality of customs services gradually improving (user  * Ministries of   Tax proceeds will be used transparently
Institutions                     survey)                                               Finance            and appropriately.
Eliminate Physical Bottlenecks   Improvement of border crossing points               * Ministry of
Transport
Project Development Objective:                                                                                      (Objectve to Goal)
1. Reduce non-tariff costs to trade  *  Transport costs to/from the four main trading partners   * Annual sampling    Business environment will improve
and transport                        decreasing annually by 2 percent on average from year    by Chambers of  notably regarding comnpetitive markets,
2001                                              Commerce and       corporate governance and judicial and
evolution of       regulatory systems.
CIF/FOB ratio      Reform in the banking/insurance sector
*  Overall cost reduction to trade at selected border                    will reinforce trade activities.
crossing: 6 % by 2003                           * Study performed at  Reduction in tariff levels and non-tariff
project completion   costs will enhance trade incentives.
2. Reduce smuggling and corruption   *  Value of recorded imports increased from US$2.6 B in  * FCA and RSCA  Non-customs tax collection will also be
at border crossings                  1999 to US$3.5 B in 2002                         annual report       made more efficient.
*  Occurrence of corruption cases down by 2003 17   * Annual survey of
truckers crossing the
border
'7 See definition of indicators, page 6 of this Annex.



Outputls1:                                                                                                         (Outputs to Objectve)
I .1. Strengthen the institutional and   * Import clearance time at pilot terminals down from 2.5  * Logs of Customs    The CAFAO program will achieve its
operational capacity of RSCA and  hours in 1999 to 50 minutes on average in 2003     * IRU in cooperation  stated objective.
FCA and other border agencies     (Federation) and from 2 hours to 20 minutes (RS).    with the National    The transport sector will offer a
* Inland physical examination down from 35% in 1999 to  Associations of  competitive environment.
10% in 2003 (RS) and from 50% to 20% (FBH)          Road Transport     Cooperation between border agencies
* Average border entry time down from 85 minutes in 1999  Operators      will be supported by the National
to under 20 minutes by 2003 (FBH) and from 120 to 30  * Ministries of   Coordinator.
minutes (RS).                                        Finance
* Chamber of        Border agencies will be given the
Economy            political mandate to innovate at pilot
Economy      ~~~sites.
1.2. Support customs users      * Internet framework and forums set up in 2001 for   * BiH Chamber of
private/public sector information exchange. Internet site  Economy
visits exceed 300/month in 2001. Current border situation
available on the internet in 2001.
1.3. Improve main border crossings   * All works completed by June 2003              Periodic surveys of    Reform programs supported by other
infrastructure                                                                       users on the duration   donors will be implemented as
and the convenience   scheduled.
of border crossing
(incl. Monitoring of
congestion)
1.4. Complete an EU-compatible  * Information systems interconnected with EDI by 2002  * RSCA and FCA,    Mostly financed in parallel under the
information system to provide high   * Time to obtain statistical data on foreign trade down to 7  users  CAFAO's program.
level internal and exteal services    days in 2003                                                        Appropriate staff available in RSCA and
* Level of interruption below I percent during working hours             FCA for information systems.
2.1. Strengthen and increase the  * Risk Assessment & Selectivity effective by 2002  *  Ministries of     Reducing costs to trade and tariffs will
efficiency of on-site inspections to    * Number of irregularities/number of physical examinations  Finance  result in significant regularization of
prevent smuggling                stabilized at 10%.                                  *  RSCA and FCA   trade.
Political commitment is adequate to
resist pressure groups and ensure the
success of the institutional program.
aq>
18 Output 1. 1 and 1.4 will mostly result from ongoing CAFAO's program.
-. _



Project Components/Sub-          Inputs: (budgetfor each component) in USS million'9                               (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2for
project description)
A. Improvement of Border                                 13.6                                                Border agencies will actively participate
Crossing/Customs Facilities                                                                                  in the irnplementation of pilot sites.
-refurbishment of three stations and
one inland terminal                                                                                          Customs policies in all operational areas
-provision of weighing scales                                                                                will ensure the uniform application of
-customs laboratory equipment                                                                                new procedures.
-awareness training
-infrastructure for information                                                                              The modules for targeting and selectivity
technology                                                                                                   will be operational nationwide by
December 2001
B. Trade Facilitation                                     0.5                                                Other on-going regional initiatives for
Development                                                                                                  trade (Association of Balkan
-training                                                                                                    Chambers..) will continue operating.
-website
C. Program and Project                                    0.8
Implementation
The costs described below are costs including contingencies and taxes,



Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Republika Srpska
Performance Targets
Indicators                                     Dec 1999    Sep 2000       Sep 2001       Sep 2002      Sep 2003
Act      Targ|_Ac    Targ.   Act              Act    arg   Act
1. Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Pilot Inland Terminal (Banja Luka)
Import Clearance Tirne (min)                     120       100            80             60            20
Physical Examination (%)                          35        25            20             15            10
Trucks cleared in less than 15 mnin. (°)          0         0             10             15            25
Irregularities/number of examinations (%)         5         7             10             13            15
Pilot Border Crossings (Raca)
Truck Examination (%)                             90        70            40             20            10
Irregularities/ Number of Examninations (%)20     10        10            10             10            10
Average Border Exit Time (mrin)                   20        20            15             15            15
Average Border Entry Time (miin)                 120       100            80             50            30
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (/o)       |                   _                          _
Pilot Border Crossings (Gradiska)
Truck Examination (%)                             90        70            40             20            10
Irregularities/ Number of Examinations (%)        10        10            10             10            10
Average Border Exit Time (mi)                     20        20            15             15            15
Average Border Entry Time (miin)                 120       100            80             50            30
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (%)                    I      I      I       I_I_I
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue collected/customs staff (1,000 DEM)      314       350           450            550           650
Total RSCA Cost/Revenue collected (%)            6.3       6.0            5.0            4.0           3.0
Salaries/Revenue collected (%)                   2.4       2.2            1.7            1.6           1.4
Trade Volume/ Number of staff (DEM million)      2.8
Annual Number of Declarations/ Custom staff      240       250           350            550           650
Transport Cost for the main export commodity     100       100            98             96            94
traded with the three main trading partners (DEM-
base 100 in 1999)
Value of Recorded Imports (US$ million)
Value of Recorded Exports (US$ million)
20 Any performance between 8 and 12 percent would be satisfactory.



Annex I
Page 5 of 7
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Performance Targets
Indicators                                    Dec 1999    Sep 2000       Sep 2001      Sep 2002       Sep 2003
Act      Tar g   Act   Targ.   Act  Targ.  Act  Targ   Act
Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Pilot Inland Terminal (Grude)
Import Clearance Time (rnin)                     100       90            80             65           50
Physical Examination (%)                         50        45            35             25           20
Trucks cleared in less than 15 min. (%)           0        0             10             20           30
Irregularities/number of examinations (%)        10        12            13             14           15
Pilot Border Crossings (Orasje)
Truck Examination (%)                            80        70            50            30            20
Irregularities/ Number of Examinations (%)21     15        15            14             12           10
Average Border Exit Time (min)                   15        15            15             15           15
Average Border Entry Time (miin)                 85        75            50             30           20
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (%)
Pilot Border Crossings (Izacic)                    ___
Truck Examination (%)                            85        70            50            30            20
Irregularities/ Number of Examninations (%)      10        10            10             10           10
Average Border Exit Time (mrin)                  20        20            20             20           20
Average Border Entry Time (min)                  70        60            50             30           20
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (%)                _
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue collected/customs staff (1,000 DEM)      587      600           700            800           850
Total FCA Cost/Revenue collected (%)             2.9      2.7            2.6           2.1           2.0
Salaries/Revenue collected (%)                   2.1      2.0            1.5           1.4           1.4
Trade Volume/ Number of staff (mnillion DEM)     7.1
Annual Number of Declarations/ Custom staff     300       350  |        450            600           700
Transport Cost for the main export conmnodity    100      100            98             96           94
traded with the three main trading partners (DEM-
base 100 in 1999)                                        _____
Value of Recorded Imports (US$ million)
Value of Recorded Exports (US$ million)                                                      I   T_     T
21 Any performnance between 8 and 12 percent would be satisfactory.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
Performance Indicators - Definitions
Indicators                       Description                             Remarks
Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Pilot Inland Terminal
Import clearance time  Time between entrance of truck into the  Information on truck identification and time
terminal and its exit from the terminal of arrival and departure will be recorded
after release of goods.              with the use of computer terminals or time
clocks installed at the terminal entry and exit
____________________                                      points
Physical Examination  Number of times that goods are examined  Information  will be  derived  from  the
or the cargo compartment is searched  computer system that records all declarations
compared to the total number of import, and from  the requirement to prepare an
export, and suspense declarations.   automated report of the results of each
physical examination.
Trucks cleared in less  Number of times that a truck completes Information will be developed using the
than 15 minutes     import clearance (time between entry into  same system that provides the data on import
the terminal and departure after release of clearance times.
goods) in less than fifteen rninutes
compared to the total number of import
clearances.
Irregularities/number  Number  of  irregularities  discovered  Information will be obtained from  the
of examinations     during physical examinations compared  automated reporting of the results of all
to  the  total  number  of  physical physical examinations.
examinations carried out.
Pilot Border Crossings                             _
Truck Examinations   Number of trucks actually opened (i.e., Information will be compiled through the use
seals broken) compared to the total of computerized  traffic  logs  and  the
number of trucks processed.          requirement to prepare an automated report
of the results of each truck examination.
Irregularities/Number Number  of irregularities  discovered  Information will be extracted from  the
of Examinations     during examinations compared to the total automated reports of truck examinations.
number of trucks examined.
Average Border Exit  For trucks exiting the country, it is the  Information on truck identification and times
Time                time between joining the queue and  will be recorded continuously with the use of
crossing the border. Physically examined  computer terminals or time clocks installed
trucks are excluded.                 at appropriate locations.
Average Border      For trucks exiting the country, it is the  Information on truck identification and times
Entry Time          time between joining the queue and  will be recorded continuously with the use of
crossing the border. Physically examined  computer terminals or time clocks installed
trucks are excluded.                 at appropriate locations.
Surveyed Occurrence  Number of cases when a driver makes or Information to calculate this indicator will be
of Corruption       is asked  to  make  an  unauthorized  derived from surveys of truck drivers using
payment compared to the total number of the crossing point. This survey will be
trucks/locations surveyed.           conducted on a continuous basis through
cooperating transport companies.



Annex I
Page 7 of 7
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue             Total  revenues  collected  in  '000  Information to be obtained from  records
collected/customs   DEM/Total   number   of   customs maintained by the Customs Service.
staff               employees
Total RSCA or FCA  Total  budget  of  the  Department Information to be obtained from records
Cost/Revenue        (including salaries, overtime, bonuses, maintained by the Customs Service.
Collected           and benefits)/Total revenue  collected
irrespective of its destination.
Salaries/Revenue    Total agency salaries, overtime, bonuses, Information to be obtained from records
collected           and  benefits/Total revenue  collected  maintained by the Customs Service.
irrespective of its destination
Trade               Trade Volume in million DEM/number of Information to be obtained from  records
Volume/customs      customs employees                     maintained by the Customs Service.
staff
Annual number of Total number of declarations (import, Information to be obtained from  records
Declarations/       export, suspense regimes, but excluding  maintained by the Customs Service.
customs staff       transit), irrespective of the number of
items/Total staff employed by RSCA or
FCA.
Regional Performance Indicators
2003
Itinerary                             2000        2001        2002       2003       as % of
2000
I. Istanbul-Bucharest Avg Time (hours)      80         78           75         71          89
Average Cost (DEM)    2,030       2,000        1,950      1,880        93
II. Istanbul-Tirana    Avg Time (hours)    192         189         182         172         90
Average Cost (DEM)    5,600       5,520       5,380       5,200        93
HI. Sarajevo-      Avg Time (hours)         40         40           39         38          95
Ljubljana    Average Cost           1,500      1,480        1,460      1,440        96
Base-year values are estimates by Bank staff for a single 20-ton truck-load, based on a survey of freight
forwarders in the Southeast Europe region.



Annex 2
Page 1 of3
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Description and Schedule
Al. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities - Republika Srpska - US$ 4.2 million
(total cost with contingencies/taxes)
Component    Investment                                  Detail
Raca Border        1,500,000  Construction of part of the new station at a border crossing in the Northeast
Station                      region. The entire facility will provide for a total of twelve processing lanes,
six each for entry and exit traffic. The lanes will have booths for police and
Customs and will be covered by a canopy. Buildings will be used to provide
office space for the border agencies. There will be a parking with a capacity
of forty trucks.
Novi Grad            700,000  Construction of a new truck terminal near a border crossing in the
Truck Terminal               Northwest region. This temminal will serve as an extension of the border
station, providing processing capacity not available at the actual border. It
will include four processing lanes, two each for import and export traffic,
and parking capacity for twenty trucks. Buildings will provide necessary
office space and inspection capabilities.
Weighing Scales      200,000  Purchase and installation of eight weighing scales at border stations for use
by Customs authorities in targeting trucks for detailed inspection.
Customs              730,000  Purchase of equipment for a Customs laboratory and training of personnel to
Laboratory                    use this equipment.
Design and           120,000  Includes the supervision of the works at Raca ($50,000) and the design and
Supervision                   supervision at Novi Grad ($70,000).
Awareness             50,000  Enhance cooperation among border agencies. Includes:
training              (NBF) (i) sensitization of customs officers to the importance of environmental
issues;
(ii) familiarization of customs offices with veterinary and phyto sanitary
controls; and
(iii) assistance in the implementation of intemational conventions related to
environment.
Total (US$               3.3
million) without
contingencies/
taxes



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
A.2. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities - Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina -
US$ 9.4 million (total cost with contingencies)
Component    Investment                               Detail
Orasje Border       2,325,000 Construction of part of the new station at a border crossing in the
Station                      Northeast region. The facility will provide a total of eleven
processing lanes. On the entry side there will be two lanes for cars,
one for buses and three for trucks. On the exit side, there will be two
lanes for cars, one for buses and two for trucks. The processing lanes
will have booths for police and Customs and will be covered by a
canopy. There will be a detailed inspection building and parking for
thirty trucks on the entry side. Buildings will provide office space for
the border agencies.
Izacic Border       3,525,000 Construction of part of the new station at a border crossing in the
Station                      Northwest region. The facility will provide a total of eleven
processing lanes. On the entry side there will be two lanes for cars,
one for buses and three for trucks. On the exit side, there will be two
lanes for cars, one for buses and two for trucks. The processing lanes
will have booths for police and Customs and will be covered by
canopies. There will be a detailed inspection building and parking for
thirty trucks on the entry side. Buildings will provide office space for
border agencies.
Inland terminals     400,000 Reconstruction and building of inland terminals, including required
and                           information technology infrastructure.
infrastructure
for information
technology
Project Design       300,000 Contracts for the detailed design of new stations at three border
for Border                    crossing locations. Each contract ($100,000) will provide for a
Stations at                   complete set of drawings for a border station.
Doijani, Gorica
and Kamensko
Design and           305,000 Contracts for design and supervision of the infrastructure for
Supervision                   information technology (US$30,000) and for the works at Orasje
($135,000) and Izacic ($135,000).
Awareness             50,000 Enhance cooperation among border agencies. Includes:
training               (NBF) (i) sensitization  of customs officers to  the importance  of
environmental issues;
(ii) familiarization of customs offices with veterinary and phyto
sanitary controls; and
(iii) assistance in the implementation of international conventions
related to environment.
Total (US$                6.8
million) without
Contingencies



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
B.    Trade Facilitation Development (US Government Grant)
Cost with Contingencies US$ 0.5 million
1. Strengthening of   100,000  Design a regional website and mechanisms to update it. The website
Private-Public       (NBF)  will enable transparency on policies, legal and regulatory framework
Partnership                   and cooperation at a local, national and regional level among private
Establish and                 and public parties. It will offer a comprehensive information resource
maintain a regional        on border crossings and inland terminals (pictures), on procedures of
maint  a regiona              border agencies in the region, and support the implementation of the
websiteato support            TI'FSE Program. All training materials developed under the Trade
the program and act           Facilitation Development will be made available on the site.
point for trade
facilitation
2. Improvement of   300,000  Develop and implement a series of conventional/distance learning
the performance of    (NBF)  programs in trade, transport, and logistics focussed on facilitating trade.
trade facilitation            The programs will consist of: (i) a study guide; (ii) study sessions; (iii)
agents                       reference readings; (iv) frequently asked questions; (v) exams; and (vi)
Expert services and  certification by a lead professional association. Seminars will be offered
trainint                     for some study sessions. Materials will be available either electronically
training                on the website or in the form of paper copies printed out at the Chamber
of Commerce and Industry.
Total (US$ m)           0.4
without              (NBF)
contingencies
C. Program and Project Implementation - US$0.8 million
Project              Operating costs    150,000 Bank contribution to operating costs.
Implementation Team
PID salaries      200,000 PID Staff salaries (government financed)
Auditor                                100,000
RSC Secretariat,                       105,000 RSC secretariat (US)
FMS,                                   125,000 Financial management system, accountant and
Procurement advisors                           procurement support.
Total without Contingencies (US$)      680,000



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Estimated Project Costs
%     % Total
(US$ Million)    Foreign   Base
Local Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Border Post Improvements-FBH                        3.7     3.7       7.4        50      58
Border Post Improvements-RS                         1.3     1.3       2.6        51      20
Borders Crossings Equipment-RS                        -     0.9       0.9       100       7
Design/Supervision of Works-FBH                     0.1     0.5       0.6        85       5
Design/Supervision of Works-RS                      0.0     0.1       0.1        85       1
Awareness Training-RS                               0.0     0.0       0.0        90       -
Awareness Training-FBH                              0.0     0.0       0.0        90       -
Subtotal Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities   5.0      6.7      11.7       57      92
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise, Advice and Equipment                     0.0     0.4       0.4        90       3
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development              0.0      0.4       0.4       90       3
C. Project and Program Implementation                  -       -          -         -       -
Auditor, Procurement, FMS and RSC Sec.              0.1     0.3       0.3        84       3
PIT Operating Costs                                 0.3       -       0.3         -       3
Subtotal Project and Program Implementation          0.4      0.3       0.7       41       5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 5.5      7.3      12.8       57      100
Physical Contingencies                              0.5     0.7       1.2        56       9
Price Contingencies                                 0.6     0.3       0.9        30       7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  6.6      8.2      14.8       56      116
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Components by Financiers                                                                                           Local
IDA           BIH        Donors (USA)      Total       For.  (Exct. Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %       Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes
A. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Border Post Improvements-FBH                     6.5    75    2.2    25                 -    8.7    59    4.2    3.1        1.4
Border Post Inprovements-RS                      2.3    75    0.8    25                 -    3.0    20    1.5    1.0        0.5
Borders Crossings Equipment-RS                   1.0   100               -              -    1.0       7    1.0
Design/Supervision of Works-FBH                  0.7   100    0.0        -              -    0.7      5    0.6    0.1
Design/Supervision of Works-RS                   0.1    100              -              -    0.1       1    0.1    0.0
Awareness Training-RS                                     -              -    0.1    100    0.1       0    0.1    0.0 -
Awareness Training-FBH                                    -    0.0       -    0.1    100    0.1       0    0.1    0.0
Subtotal Improvement of Border Crossing Facilitli  10.6    78    2.9    21    0.1        1   13.6    92    7.5    4.2    1L9
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise, Advice and Equipment                           -    0.0       -    0.5    100    0.5       3    0.4    0.0
C. Project and Program Implementation                       -              -              -              -
Auditor, Procurement, FMS and RSC Sec.           0.2    68    0.0        -    0.1     32    0.4       2    0.3    0.1
PIT Operating Costs                              0.1    34    0.3       66              -    0.4      3       -    0.4
Subtotal Project and Program Implementation        0.4    51    0.3    34    0.1        15    0.8       5    0.3    0.5
Total Disbursement                                11.0    74    3.2      21    0.7       5   14.8   100    8.2    4.7         1.9
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding



Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Cost Benefit Analysis of Total Project Investment
Table 4.1. Summary Economic Benefit from the Project
COSTS           BENEFITS
FY                                               Net Benefits
(in US$ million)  (in US$ million)    (in US$ million)
2001                      0.5              0.2              -0.3
2002                      9.0              1.0              -8.0
2003                      2.6              4.5               1.9
2004                                       4.0               4.0
2005                                       3.4               3.4
2006                                       2.8               2.8
2007                                       2.9               2.9
2008                                       3.0               3.0
2009                                       3.1               3.1
2010                                       3.2               3.2
2011                                       3.3               3.3
2012                                       3.4               3.4
2013                                       3.5               3.5
2014                                       3.6               3.6
2015                                       3.7               3.7
2016                                       3.7               3.7
2017                                       3.7               3.7
Total                    12.2             52.9               40.7
Internal Rate of Return                                   35%
iDiscount Rate                    1      12%       1
NPV @ 12%                      9.5             19.9               104
The Principles of the Economic Evaluation
The border crossings proposed for improvements under this project were selected on the basis of: (i) traffic;
(ii) geographical location (on intemational routes); (iii) waiting time at present; and (iv) need for upgrading.
These border crossings were designed to ensure efficient and transparent border operations, while fitting the
more stringent norms of the European Union regarding office space occupancy. The analysis was built in
close coordination with local parties (RSCA, FCA, Ministries of Finance) reviewing alternative remedial
measures.
The economic cost-benefit analysis compares the economic costs and benefits of the project over the
implementation period and over its assumed 15-year period of expected life. Detailed calculations on costs
and benefits are shown in Table 4.1. All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 2000 prices. All
investment costs are net of import duties and of either taxes or subsidies.



Annx-4Tale 4.2
E&ou.um  Cost-Befit Aavlysis                        Boua ea  Hmrnguwa
(MMiom of US$ in 2000 pices)
2001    202  12003          2n4      200       26        2007     200       209       2010     2011      201.2    2013   1 14          2016
Coet_
Investment Costs
KSth tho Poject
Impwvement of 8oxrer Crossing Facilities    04       8 8       2.5
Trade Faclitation Deve]opm.nt                0 1      0.2       0 1
Total O1hthAe Prase:t                        05        9.0      2.6
Tote lJaemeuetml Coat,                                   8!       9.0       2.6       0.0      0.01      0.0       0.0'     *.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.*       *.0
Ecoomi.k Benefit,
1. Traaport Cost Redution (with project)
PilotCrossings                               01       06        22        32       33        34        3.5       36       37        38        39       40        41        43        44
Other Csssuis/Posts                          0.0     01        1.2       1.7       1.7      1.8       1.9       1.9      2.0       2.0       2.1       2.1       2.2      2.3       23
Pilot Inland Teninrwl                        00       0.2       0.5       0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7      0 8       0 8       0.8      0 8       09        09        09        09
Total                                        02       09        38        55       57        59        6 1      62        64        66       68         70       72        74        77
2. Impact of RedAuced Tsozert Cost, on Trade
Trade Benefits from Tnspost Cost Redaction  0.04      0.2       0 8       1.1       1.1      1.2      12       12        1.3       1.3       1 4       1.4      1 A       15        15
3. Transport Coxt Reduction (witkout project)                                        -2.7     -3.4      -4.2      -4-4 -45           -46       -48       -4.9     -5 1      -5.2      *5.4      -55
Totl Beuefits 1fm Project                                0.2       1.0      4.5       4 0      3.4       2.8       2 9      3.0       3.1       3.2       3.3      3 4       3.5       3.6       3.7
Net Benefits frema Ptoject                              -0.3     -8.0       1.9       4.0       3.4      2.8       291      3.0       311       3.21      33       34        3 5       3.6       3.7
°IV
sP.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
Costs
The project cost considered for the economic evaluation amounts to US$12.2 million excluding taxes and
including physical and price contingencies. It includes the following components: (i) Improvement of border
crossing and customs facilities; and (ii) trade facilitation development measures. It does not take into
account the cost of the program and project implementation.
Benefits - With Project Scenario
Two benefits have been quantified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at border
crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the project.
Some time savings will accrue as well to passenger traffic at the crossings. This element was not included in
the analysis but will be monitored over the project life at pilot sites.
Trade and Transport Costs Reduction. The savings on transport costs at BiH border crossings and the
inland terminal under the project would progressively reach about US$5.5 million at the end of 2004. Delays
at border crossings and inland terminals are symptomatic of a number of issues associated with deficiencies
in trade related services: procedural complexity, cumbersome documentation requirements, systematic
checks, slow customs clearance steps, scarce and unreliable information technology and
telecommunications, absence of standard service times and inadequate infrastructure.
Assumptions. The progressive reduction of border crossing time22 to forty minutes for incoming traffic has
been used as the basis in the economic evaluation of the project. The border crossings where physical
improvements would take place would progressively meet this objective by 2002. The average waiting time
for trucks in the "do nothing" alternative is the mid-estimate as reported by customs users and officials. The
average value of time for trucks was obtained through interviews (US$340/day). Traffic will be impacted by
five broad parameters that are difficult to forecast accurately: (i) the recovery of the Croatian, Yugoslav and
Bosnian economies; (ii) the reallocation of traffic as bridges and official border crossings reopen; (iii) the
reduction of traffic crossing through the large number of non official border crossings as a result of better
scrutiny at border; (iv) the progressive reduction in donor financed assistance; (v) the resurgence of trade in
the neighboring of the border. Overall traffic growth was assumed at 3 percent under the category "trade and
transport cost reduction", compared to a base traffic corresponding to periods when the corresponding
bridges were operational.
In order to realize the economic benefit from the waiting time reduction, both the physical investments and
the customs reform are jointly required because the customs reform alone can not completely reduce the
waiting time. For example, the implementation of new procedures requires additional lanes to allow for
traffic segregation, appropriate space covered by canopies for secondary inspection23, proper communication
capacity with limited interruption (LAN, WAN, phone, fax). The project will specifically address these
border posts where infrastructure or equipment bottlenecks exist. The infrastructure for information
technology will significantly impact operations at inland terminals and border crossings by: (i) improving
sound decision making; (ii) ensuring selectivity and targeting; (iii) giving access to intelligence information.
This impact will be monitored over the life of the project but was not quantified as part of the evaluation.
Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The impact on trade under the project comes from: (i) reduction in
waiting time at border crossing points; and (ii) increased reliability in the delivery of goods. In a competitive
market, these two elements will be reflected in the price of traded goods, and stimulate trade. The increased
reliability of international delivery times will facilitate the integration of local companies into international
production chains.
22    entering the border area in one country to exiting the border area in the next country.
23 Selectivity means not only that not all trucks are inspected, but that those inspected are subject to a far more detailed
inspection than today.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
In the medium run (from 2003) these two elements should enable a significant increase in trade volumes.
Such trade gains are obtained by combining trade creation and trade-substitution effects24. Imports would be
the most affected initially, since the border inefficiencies bear mostly on imports. However the regional
nature of the project would simultaneously impact exports. Increased import volumes would benefit local
consumers (inclusive of local companies relying on foreign inputs for their production) by increasing their
consumer surplus and would create a loss for some local manufacturers, whose products become replaced by
new imports. Increased export volume would benefit local producers by opening new market opportunities
and would reduce local consumer surplus by reducing the quantity available on the local market at the initial
price.
The broad economic impact of cheaper international transport is complex to analyze even in countries with
valid statistical data and requires general equilibrium models taking into account the monetary/foreign
exchange impacts of new trade patterns. Given the current level and quality of data available on the six
TTFSE countries, such a detailed evaluation would not be realistic. The outcome of various studies25 on this
phenomenon shows these additional benefits ranging between 20 and 30 percent over the transport savings
generated. For the purpose of this evaluation, 20% was considered as the most appropriate. Exhibit 4.1
provides an at-a-glance summary of trade for BiH.
Benefits - Without Project Scenario
If the project were not taking place, reform efforts would continue to be implemented with the support of the
CAFAO. The differential between the with or without project scenarios in terms of costs includes only the
project costs as described above. The extemal support would enable the Customs services to partly achieve
the objectives of this project on a delayed schedule. The benefits associated with "the without project"
scenario were subtracted from the benefits in the "with project scenario" to obtain the project benefits. It
was estimated that, without the project, 40 percent of annual with project benefits would be achieved in
2003, 50 percent in 2004 and 60 percent in 2005 and onwards. The absence of needed infrastructure without
Bank's financing would impose a limit to the efficiency that could be achieved, explaining that only 60
percent of the savings could be reached without the project.
Sensitivity Analysis on EIRR
Table 4.3 presents the various assumptions tested and their influence on the economic intemal rate
of return of the project. The internal rate-of-return for the project is robust as shown by the low
switching values. In all cases tested, the projected rate-of-return remains well above the opportunity
cost of capital.
24 The trade creation effect is the increased demand in the importing country for a commodity from an exporting country,
resulting from the price decrease associated with the elimination or reduction of distortions. Trade substitution accounts for
the tendency of importers to substitute goods from one source to another in response to a change in the import price of
supplies from one source.
25 Notably " The welfare implications of transport improvements in the presence of market failure", Anthony Venables,
London School of Econoomics and Michael Gasiorek, School of European Studies.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
Table 4.3. Sensitivity Analysis
Ilnvestment cost ()and Traffic Volume I 61%       20%
Table 4.4. Switching Values (for IRR   | 12 percent
Daily Truck Value (US$/day)             165
Trade related benefits coeff. _<_
Traffic volume/existing traffic        48%
Minimum Time Savings
(in minutes)                   40



Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
Bosnia and Herzegovina Goods Trade Outlook (1999)
TRADE INDICATORS
1995   1996   1997  1998         1999                   Trade trend, USS million
3000-
Exports (FOB) in USS million   152  336   575   817         973    2000 -
Imports (FOB) in USS million  1,082    1,882  2,333  2,573  2,388
Balance on Goods           -930  -1,546 -1,758 -1,756    -1,415     1000 _
Growth Exports (in %)      67%    121%   71%   42%          1 90          ____________0_____
Growth Imports (in %)      21%      74%   24%    10%       -7%                    .        ,
Total Trade of Goods       1,234   2,218  2,908  3,390     3,361    -100D
Growth Trade volume        25%      80%   31%    17%        -1%
Real GDP in USS billion     1.9     2.7   3.4   4.1         4.4    -2000
Exportsas%ofGDP             8%      12%   17%   20%        22%              1995     1996     1997     1996     1999
Imports as % of GDP         57%     70%   690/o  63%        54%          lExportGoods FOB            limport.GoodsFOB
Trade balance as % of GDP  490/o    57%   52%   43%        32%            B
Trade as % of GDP          65%     82%   86%   83%         76%  _I -0-alance on Goods
BIH: TRADE DIRECTION: Main Partners
Exports, fob (USS million)            ImPorts, cif (USS million)
to                         1997    1998  1999         from          1997    1998   1999
Italy                        13      155   150        Croatia        309     384   555
Croatia                     110      143   113        Slovenia       230     249   421
Slovenia                     21      41    54         Yugoslavia     127     342   215
Federation: TRADE STRUCTURE (main categories)
Exports Imports
US$ million                19f      19,9                            Federation: Export Partners 1999
Industrial Products         143      523                                 Others           Italy
24%     _       21%
Raw Materials               127
Machinery and transpon               660                                    S
Sloveni    v           Coa
9%             ~~~21%
Switzerland
12%       Germany
13%
Foreign trade is highly significant to BiH. Export and imports combined are valued at 75 percent of BiH's GDP. Official
trade numbers are only indicative of broad trends due to underreporting during official data collection. Export expanded
strongly in 1999 (+19 percent in US$ terms) and continued its growth in the first half of 2000. This was combined with a
reduction in imports, resulting from the reduction in the donor-financed reconstruction effort. Most imports are consumer
goods, while most exports are industrial goods such as base metal (aluminium) or timber.
Trading partners have changed, as a consequence of trade agreements. The EU, with notably Italy and Germany, remain the
main partner of BiH. Exports to Croatia and FRY dropped considerably in 1999, following the cancellation of their
preferential trade agreements and the crisis in FRY. Imports from Yugoslavia, which used to represent 75 percent of RS
imports, dropped to a mere 20 percent in 1999, but recovered partially in early 2000. A contract with a local aluminium
manufacturer tumed Switzerland into the main export partner in the first half of 2000.
Sources : World Bank, IMF, Agency for Statistics of BIB, EIU.



Annex 5
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Financial Summary
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)                                    Totals Including Contingencies
FY2001 FY2002 FY2003  Total
A. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Border Post Improvements-FBH                       -      5.9     2.7     8.7
Border Post Improvements-RS                        -      3.0       -     3.0
Borders Crossings Equipment-RS                    0.4     0.6       -      1.0
Design/Supervision of Works-FBH                    -      0.6     0.1     0.7
Design/Supervision of Works-RS                     -      0.1     0.1     0.1
Awareness Training-RS                             0.0     0.0       -     0.1
Awareness Training-FBH                            0.0     0.0       -     0.1
Subtotal Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities  0.    10.2      2.9    13.6
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise, Advice and Equipment                   0.1     0.2     0.1     0.5
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development            0.1     0.2      0.1     0.5
C. Project and Program Implementation
Auditor, Procurement, FMS and RSC Sec.           0.1      0.1     0.1     0.4
PIT Operating Costs                              0.1      0.1     0.1     0.4
Subtotal Project and Program Implementation                0.2     0.3      0.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                o.9    10.7      3.3    14.8
FY2001 FY2002 FY2003  Total
Project Financing
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina             0.02     1.5     0.7     2.2
Republika Srpska                                 0.01     0.8    0.01     0.8
State of Bosnia and Herzegovina                  0.1      0.1     0.1     0.2
uS                                                0.2     0.3     0.2     0.7
IDA                                              0.5      8.1     2.4    11.0
Total Project Financing                            0.9    10.7      3.3    14.8
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding



Annex 6
Page 1 of 11
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The following procurement arrangements will apply to all contracts financed wholly or partially by IDA.
General. Goods and works wholly or partially financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant's services wholly or partly
financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in January 1999. A General
Procurement Notice has been published in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) to advertise
all assignments expected to be financed by IDA under the project. Standard documents published by the
World Bank/IDA will be used by the PIT for the preparation of bidding documents and request for
consultant's proposals.
Implementing Agency and its Capacity. The implementing agency is the Project hmplementation
Directorate (PID) of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. Its staff was in charge of state level
components for the previous transport project. The PID capacity assessment was carried out in April 2000.
A procurement officer, acceptable to the Bank, has since been nominated. The capacity assessment
highlights the limited procurement experience in projects financed by the international community.
Significant training and external consultant support has been included to ensure that the procurement
capacity would be satisfactory.
Procurement of Works. All IDA civil works contracts will be financed under Intemational Competitive
Bidding procedures (ICB).
Procurement of Goods. Contracts for the supply of goods will be procured under ICB.
Prior and Post Review by the IDA for Goods and Works Contracts. All IDA financed goods and works
contracts under ICB will be subject to prior review procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
Procurement of Consulting Services. Recruitment of consulting firms for the design and supervision of
works in the Federation will be carried out under the Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Exception to using the QCBS method will apply to small contracts
for supervision and design in the Republika Srpska (below US$80,000 each) and financial audits (below
US$120,000) by using the Least Cost Selection method for an aggregate amount not to exceed US$270,000.
Individual consultants (Section V) will be hired to provide procurement support to the PIT when needed and
for the exchange program to improve the infornation system.
Prior and post Review by the IDA for Consultants' Contracts. All consultant contracts expected to cost
above the equivalent of $100,000 per contract with firms and $25,000 per contract with individuals will be
subject to prior review by the IDA. Other contracts competitively awarded and not subject to prior review
will be subject to post review. All contracts not awarded through competition and all terms of reference
(TOR) will be subject to prior review.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 11
Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions. The RSCA, the FCA and
IDA have reviewed during appraisal the procurement plan (Table A2) and finalized it at during the project
technical discussions. This timetable will be used as a basis for monitoring of procurement processing. In
particular, the following advance procurement actions have been identified and are hereby proposed to the
PID as critical milestones so that main contracts can be signed soon after Credit effectiveness: (i) submit
draft Specific Procurement Notice for the construction works, provision of goods by March 15, 2001; (ii)
submit Terms of Reference, short list, LOI, draft model contract for consulting services by March 15, 2001.
All notices to be published in the UN Development Business should be submitted to IDA at least 20 days
prior to publication.
A Project Preparation Facility of US$200,000 has been made available to the MFTER for the Federation to
complete the preparation of its detailed design, finance the Federation share (70%) of the establishment of
the Financial Management System and support the preparation of procurement documents. These items are
part of the project and are described as such in the Table A2 of this Annex. Retroactive financing would be
provided for an amount of up to SDR80,000 to the Republika Srpska to cover its share of the establishment
of the financial management system, procurement support and PIT operating costs.
Disbursement
Disbursement. Disbursements against the categories described in the table 6.C would be made upon receipt
by IDA of fully documented applications, except for contracts valued at less US$100,000 for consulting
firms, US$25,000 for individual consultants, and for operating costs, which would be made against certified
statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the Borrower
and rnade available to IDA during supervision. The minimum size of application for direct withdrawals and
issuance of conmmitments from the IDA Credit account would be 20 percent of the amount of the Authorized
Allocation to the Special Account. Retroactive financing for an amount of up to SDR80,000 could be used
by the Republika Srpska for categories 8 and 9. It would cover the establishment of the financial
management system, support for preparation of procurement documents and incremental operating cost.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
one of the major foreign commercial banks abroad on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to cover the
share of expenditures by IDA. The Authorized Allocation for this special account would be US$0.9 million,
representing about four months of average expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early
stage of the project, the initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US$450,000. However,
when the disbursements under the Credit have reached the level of SDRI.41 million, the initial allocation
may be increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US$0.9 million by submitting the relevant Application
for withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when
one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for
replenishment would follow standard Bank procedures as described in Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6.
Monthly bank statements of the Special Account, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, would
accompany all replenishment requests.
Project Accounting and Financial Management. The PIT will be fully in charge of all financial
management aspects of the Project. A financial management system (FMS) including accounting, reporting,
planning, budgeting, auditing and proper internal control systems has been established prior to Board
presentation. By the time of the certification process, the FMS met the minimum Bank financial
management requirements (and the 4-B LACI Certification was issued). IDA has reviewed the FMS and
prepared a report identifying weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to enhance the system and enable
the development of appropriate project management reports in view of the transition to PMR-based
disbursements. IDA has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the steps necessary for further
strengthening of procedures and staff development during implementation. The FMS is compatible with



Annex 6
Page 3 of 11
OP/BP 10.02, with the Project Financial Management Manual and with the Loan Administrative Change
Initiative (LACI) Handbook, published by the Bank. The development of the FMS will be monitored by IDA
before effectiveness, during the first supervision mission and throughout project implementation.
The PIT includes a director, an accountant, a procurement specialist and an assistant. The PIT will maintain
all documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The PIT will be responsible for keeping the accounting records of the project,
operating both the Special Account and the Project Account (BiH Government contribution), handling all
procurement aspects, monitoring and evaluating, planning and budgeting, reporting both to IDA and to the
BiH Government and carrying out disbursement and auditing. The certification of acceptance for goods,-
works and services provided will be a joint process with the relevant Customs project manager.
The PIT staff will be responsible for: preparing the bidding documents; receive the offers and evaluate them
in accordance with IDA regulations; submit the evaluations to IDA for no objection; sign contracts in an
acceptable format; supervise the works performed by contractors; certify, together with the respective
project coordinator in the Customs Administration, the acceptance of the works, goods and services
provided. The payment orders will be prepared by the PIT only after the fulfillment of the above steps. No
project funds (including credit amounts) may be passed over to beneficiaries or other parties. The PIT is the
only entity authorized to make payments to suppliers.
The accountant (reporting to the director) will handle all financial accounting documents, ensure that
accounting records are kept up to date within the financial management software system installed, liaise with
the MFTER and the MoFs. She will also establish permanent contacts with the beneficiaries, to ensure that
all project transactions are recorded in the consolidated project financial statements for both IDA
requirements and BiH statutory reporting purposes.
Flow of Funds. Replenishments to the Special Account will be formally requested to IDA by the MFTER,
based on a document prepared by the PIT. A 'correspondent' special account is to be opened in a local bank,
acceptable to WB. Very limited amounts (in accordance with the WB regulations issued for BiH) may be
transferred to this 'correspondent' special account for local eligible payments.
The PIT will use an additional, separate project account for the local contribution, only for funds allocated
by the BiH Government, as the local financing component of the project and may have two sub-accounts
(one for Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one for Republika Srpska).
Internal Controls. The PIT have to adhere to sound internal control procedures and practices, to ensure that
Project funds are used with economy and efficiency and only for the purposes intended. The PIT will report
to the Project Manager and will inform in a timely manner all ministries and bodies involved (MFTER,
MoFs, CAs) about the project implementation.
All PIT staff must become familiar with IDA regulations (legal, disbursement, procurement, financial
management, etc) applicable to their relevant area. A draft 'Financial management manual' has been
developed by the financial management consultant appointed, documenting various types of financial
transactions, approval and authorization steps, the flow of documents between the PIT, beneficiaries and
MFTER, PIT staff responsibilities and measures to ensure a complete segregation of duties, internal control
procedures, etc.
In addition to the above-mentioned manual, the PIT will be provided and will have to apply all financial
management and accounting regulations issued by the local Bank office. The PIr staff has been requested
to document the internal norms that will be used throughout the life of the Project. These norms will
document in detail the day-to-day internal procedures for each type of activity (such as correspondence



Annex 6
Page 4 of 11
handling, contracting and payment procedures, operation of all Project bank accounts, petty cash procedures,
authorization mechanism, reporting, filling, etc.).
During the recent past, serious concerns have been raised conceming fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds
in BiH. There is a general agreement that a well functioning legal framework and institutions of law are
absent. Enforcement of law is weak. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area
of procurement. The risk that IDA funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined investment
program is judged as acceptable by introducing several measures principal amongst them is "ring-fencing"
the project through the establishment of PIT, segregation of duties within PIT, requiring Customs officials to
certify the works done before payments are made by PIT, and an independent audit of project funds by an
international firm.
Auditing. The PIT will have its accounts audited every fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing issued by the International Federation of
Accountants and Bank guidelines. The reports of such audits will be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 11
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
International   National
Competitive
Bidding       Other      N.B.F.  Total
A. Civil Works                             11.7            -         -   11.7
(8.8)           -             (8.8)
B. Equipment & Goods                        1.0            -       0.1    1.1
(1.0)                         (1.0)
C. Consultant Services & Engineering          -          1.1       0.6    1.6
(1 .1)       -  (1 .1)
D. Training
E. Operating costs                            -          0.2       0.2    0.4
(0.1)         -  (0.1)
Total                                    12.7          1.2       0.9   14.8
(9.8)        (1.2)        - (I 1.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any
other miscellaneous items).
Consultant Services and Engineering, Training -other: See Table 6 Al and A2
Item C includes US$200,000 of consultant's services for the Project Preparation Facility for the Federation
of Bosnia and Herzegovina and US$100,000 equivalent of retroactive financing for the Republika Srpska.



Anmex 6
Page 6 of 11
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                           Selection Method                             Total Cost
Expenditure                                                                             (including
Category                                                                            contingencies)
CQCBS    QBS         SFB      LCS       CQ       Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                0.5                          0.2               0.226      0.6          1.5
(0°5)                       (0.2)               (0.2)                  (0.9)
B. Individuals                                                          0.2 27                 0.2
_______  _______  _______            ~~~(0.2)               (0.2)
0.5                          0.2                0.4      0.6           1.7
Total                  (0.5)                        (0.2)              (0.4)                   1.1)
Due to rounding the figures may not add up.
Note:  QCBS  = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS    = Quality-based Selection
SFB    = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS    = Least-Cost Selection
CQ      = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other   = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
26Covers some design work for the Federation using the PPF, on a sole source basis, as stipulated in the PPF agreement.
Covers the procurement support and other support/training to the PIT over the life of the project.



Table A2: Procurement Plan
inland 1!|  t erminal (Nvi
Border crossing       CW       2    Total: 3.0   ICB             No            Draft bidding docs to IDA    1. Invitation July 1, 2001              November 1,2001   June 1,2003
improvements RS                      Lot 1 :2.1                                  April 15,2001              2. Opening Septembery , 2001 
construction of                      Lot 2: 0.9                                                             3. Eval. & Recorn. October 15, 2001
administrative
buildings/canopies in
Raca; construction of|
inland terminal (Novi)
Border         crossing    CW  2     Total : 8.2   ICB           No            Draft bidding docs to IDA    1. Invitation May 35,2001               September 15,      January , 2003
improvements                         Lot 1:3.0                                   April 15,2001              2. Opening July 15, 2001                2001
Federation                           Lot 2: 5.2                                                             3. Eval. & Recom. August 15,2001
construction of
administrative 
buildings/canopies/ 
lanes in Orasje and 
Izacic 
Inland terSnals       Cw       1    0.2          ICB                           Draft bidding docs to IDA by    l. Invitation: May 30,2001           September 15,      June 30, 2003
Information                                                                    Aprily15,2001                2. Opening July 30, 2001                2001
3. Evaluation and Recommendation
Systems                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aygs 31, 2001
Infrastrujcture,I
Weighing Scales       G        1    0.2          ICB                           Draft bidding docs to IDA by    I. Invitation: February  22001       Jnoe 3, 2001       Janu 10, 2002
January 31, 2001             2. Opening April 30, 2001
3. Evaluation and Recommendation
_                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MaY 31, 2001 
LaIboratory           G        1    0.8          ICB                           Draft bidding docs to IDA by    I . Invitation: June 30, 2001        November I, 2001   January 1 5, 2003 |
Equipment                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~      ~     ~~~~~April130, 2001  2. Opening September 1, 2001 
Equipment                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~3. Evaluation and Recomniendation|
October 1,2001
Design of IT          CS       3     0.17         Sole Source                  RFP by October 23, 2000      NA                                      December 15,       February 15, 2001
Infrastructure,                                                                                                                                    2000
Redesign of
Orasje and Izacic
Border Crossings28
(PPF)
Design and            CS       2    0.15          LCS            No            RFP by May 15, 2001          I. Invite Proposal from shortlisted firms  September 30,   June 1, 2003
Supervision-RS                                                                                              June 15, 2001                           20010
2. Opening August 1,2001
3. Evaluation and Recommendation
Aust 3, 2001
28These items are financed under an approved Project Preparation Facility. The contract for design of the IT infrastructure is small (US$30,000) and urgent; the contracts             0
for the redesign are below US$ 100,000 each and was awarded to the two design companies in charge of the initial work, as described in the PPF agreement.



RFPby July 15, 2001         1. Invite Proposal from shortlisted firms  November 15,  June 1,2003
September 1, 2001                   2001
2. Opening October 15, 2001
3. Evaluation and Recommendation
October 30, 2001
Supervision         Cs       1      0.13        QCBS           EXI Jan. 31,   RFP by March 15, 2001     1. Invite Proposal from shortlisted firms  August 31,2001    January 15, 2003
29Federation                                                   2001                                     March 31,2001
2. Opening May 15,2001
3. Evaluation and Recommendation
June 15,2001
New Design" -       CS        1     0.3          QCBS          EXJ          RFP by March 15,2001        1. Invite Proposal from shortlisted firms  August 15,2001    June 30,2002
Federation                                                     Jan.31,                                  April 30,2001
2001                                     2. Opening June 15, 2001
New design                                                                                              3. Evaluation and Recommendation
Doljani             CA        1     0.1         QCBS           Marchl1,    RFPbyApril15,2001              July 15,2001
CA  I  0.1  QCBS     Match 15,    RFP by April 15, 2001        1.Invite Proposal from shortlisted firms  October 1, 2001  January 1, 2002
2001                                        June 1,2001
2. Opening August 15,2001
3. Evaluation and Recommendation
September 1, 2001
PIT Operating       NA      NA    0.2
Costs
PIT support3'       CS       10    0.2          IC                          N/A
FMS32 (PPF)         G         1     0.03        IS
Auditor             Cs        1     0.1         LCS                         NA                                                                 January 30,2001   September 30,2004
Total                               14.0
29 This contract covers the supervision of works at Izacic and Orasje.
30 These design contracts correspond to works, which will not be implemented under the project.
3' These contracts will be awarded during the project implementation as needs for support or training arise. Part of these contracts may be funded by the PPF or by retroactive
financing as required.
32 Financed by the PPF for the FCA and by retroactive financing for the RSCA.
12
-0'



Annex 6
Page 9 of 11
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts Subject to
Prior Review J
Estimated Total
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement         Value Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method              Prior Review
Us$
1. Works                  >=200,000                ICB          All /US$11.7 million
2. Goods                  >=100,000                ICB           All / US$1.0 million
3. Services               >=100,000               QCBS             All / US$500,000
<100,000               LCS              All / US$200,000
SS33            All / US$170,000
<25,000         Individual Consultant        TOR
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$13.6 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High        x
Average
Low         _
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: As procurement staff are based in BiH,
there could be ongoing support given on procurement matters whenever needed by project staff.
Formally, there would be one supervision mission every four-six month(s) (including special procurement
supervision for post-review/audits).
" Financed from Project Preparation Facility, as per the PPF agreement.



Amnex 6
Page 10 of 11
Table Bi:
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirements
Brief Statement
The Government of BiH has limited experience in implementing Bank--financed projects under standard rules. It has a
weak performance for procurement of Works, Goods, and Services.
No CPAR exists for BIH                                       Are the bidding documents for the procurement
actions for thefirst year ready by negotiations:
No
Training Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Date of  Date ofpublication of  Indicate if there is     Domestic    Domestic Preference for
Project Launch    General Procurement   procurement subject to      Preference   Works, if applicable:
Workshop:         Notice:                mandatory SPN in          for Goods:  No
Development Business:
November 15,      June 16, 2000          Yes                       N.A.
2000              __ _ _ __ _ _I__   _   I__  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
Retroactive Financing: Yes for the Republika Srpska                Advance Procurement:
Setting up the financial management system, support for preparation of  No
procurement documents and incremental operating cost (total below
SDR80,000)
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The PID under the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications will oversee all procurement activities under the
project and will ensure procurement is done in accordance with World Bank procedures with support of external
consultants as needs arise. TOR for all consultant services will be subrmitted for no-objections to the Bank. The PID will
report on procurement matters in its Quarterly Progress Reports ( See C: 4 e).
|Cofinancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing:
jTherewill be no joint-financing. For parallel financing, donor procurement procedures will be used.
| Section 4: Procurement Staffing
|Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank 's staffpart of Task Team responsiblefor the procurement in the Project:
Name: Lucas Janssens      Extension: 2443000
Country Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to project team and will be assisted in that regard by
procurement advisors.



Annex 6
Page 11 of 11
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
IDA                                       Credit                  Disbursement
SDR Amount                               Amount                        %
A. Part A of the Project (Federation)
1. Works                                4,620,000                    75%
2. Consultant's Services                  470,000                    100%
3. Incremental Operating Costs             80,000         90% through January 31, 2002;
75% thereafter
4. Refunding of Project Preparation
Advance                                   160,000
5. Unallocated                            520,000
Subtotal                              5,850,000
B. Part B of the Project (Republika Srpska)
6. Works                                 1,650,000                   75%
7. Goods                                  780,000          100% foreign expenditures,
100% local expenditures and
85% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
8. Consultant's Services                  160,000                   100%
9. Incremental Operating Costs             30,000         90% through January 31, 2002;
75% thereafter
10. Unallocated                           230,000
Subtotal                              2,850,000
Total                                   8,700,000



Amex 7
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      16 months
First Bank mission (identification)             02/15/1999           02/15/1999
Negotiations                                    06/06/1999           10/23/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/15/2000
Prepared by: Ministries of Finance, RSCA, FCA and Bank Team
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Graham Smith                              Program Team Leader
Gerald Ollivier                           Task Team Leader - Transport Specialist
Elaine Patterson                          Deputy Resident Mission Representative
Michel Zarnowiecki                        Senior Customs Specialist
Lucas Janssens                            Procurement Accredited Specialist
Nikola Kerleta                            Procurement Analyst
Bogdan Constantinescu                     Financial Management Specialist
Joseph Paul Formoso                       Sr. Disbursement Officer
Kenneth Gwilliam                          Peer Reviewer
James Walsh                               IMF Peer Reviewer
Pedro Taborga                             Sr. Economist
Samra Basic                               Project Assistant
Consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Philip Moeller                            Participation/Environmental Specialist
Ivan Taborsky                             Customs Specialist
Preparation Assistance: Marie Laygo, Dammika Somasundaram



Annex 8
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff-Mission Assessments
Management Information System
Trade Facilitation Component
Customs Institutional Reform
Technical paper regarding the selection of border crossings
Stakeholder surveys
Financial Management System Assessment
Procurement Capacity Assessment.
C. Other
Draft Strategy and action plan for the modernization of the RS Customs Administration
Draft Strategy and action plan for the modernization of the Federal Customs
Administration
"The welfare implications of transport improvements in the presence of market failure"
by Anthony Venables and Michael Gariorek.
Minutes and Recommendations of Quality Evaluation Review (QER).
CAFAO reports on Customs reform activities.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 34
(As of June 30, 2000)
.US$ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                                    (Less Cancellations)
No.       Year             Borrower                          Proiect                      Loan
Undisbursed
Loans/Credits/Grants
IBRD 35
4038-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan A                      28.6      0.0
4039-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan B                     284.9      0.0
4040-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan C                     307.1      0.0
Total                                         620.6      0.0
Of Which: Repaid                          24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank:              595.7
TFBH3 (Under Disbursement)
TF-024030 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Recovery Credit                 45.0      0.0
TF-024031 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Farm Reconstruction             20.0      0.0
TF-024032 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Water Supply                    20.0      0.0
TF-024033 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Transport                       35.0      0.7
TF-024034 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency District Heating                20.0      0.0
TF-024035 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation       5.0      0.0
TF-024040 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction         5.0      0.0
Total                                         150.0      0.7
IDA
2897-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction         5.0      0.0
2896-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation       5.0      0.4
2902-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Housing Repair                  15.0      0.0
2903-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Power Reconstruction            35.6      0.2
2904-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Public Works and Employment     10.0      0.4
2905-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Landmines Clearance              7.5      0.0
2906-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration  7.5     0.3
2914-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transition Assistance Credit              90.0      0.0
NOOI-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee     10.0      0.0
N002-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Microenterprise/Local lnitiatives  7.0    0.4
N003-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Essential Hospital Services               15.0      2.2
N032-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transport Reconstruction II               39.0      3.9
N035-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Education Reconstruction II               11.0      0.5
3028-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Reconstruction Assistance Project         17.0      2.6
3029-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Natural Gas                     10.0      0.0
3070-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Pilot Credit (RS)                5.0      0.3
3071-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Power II                                  25.0      17.0
N040-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Forestry                                   7.0      6.2
3090-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Public Finance I (Structural Adjustment)  63.0      0.0
3191-BOS 1999       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Local Development                         15.0     14.3
3202-BOS 1999       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Basic Health                              10.0      9.4
3262-BOS 1999       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Enterprise and Bank Privatization Project  50.0    24.5
3257-BOS 1999       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Enterprise Export Facility Project        12.0     10.1
3269-BOS 1999       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Pilot Cultural Heritage Project (LIL)      4.0      3.9
3258-BOS 1999       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Second Public Finance (Structural Adjustment)  72.0  43.5
33510-BOS-2000      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Education Development Project III         10.6     14.6
33850-BOS-2000      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Mostar Water and Sanitation               12.0     13.2
34000-BOS-2000      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Labor Redeployment              15.0     15.0
Total                                              585.2    182.88
Grand Total                                              697.6
34 The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
35 Consolidation Loans A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and became effective on June 14, 1996.
36 Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Bosnls and Heregovina
STATEMENT OF IFCS
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of December, 2000
(Amounts in US Dollar Millions
IFC Data Warehouse
IFC Held                                      IFC Disbursed
FY Approval    Company        Loan        Equity      Quasi      Partic      Loan        Equity     Quasi
2001           Bosnalijek         2355430           0           0          0    2355430            0          0
1997/99        Bosnia Micro             0     848332           0           0           0     848332           0
1985           Energoinvest       7566149           0          0           0    7566149           0           0
1997           Enterprise Fund          0    1733191           0           0           0     731896           0
1997           Sarajevska         2457957           0          0           0    2457957           0           0
1998           SEF Akova          1808848           0          0           0    1808848           0           0
1999           SEF Bosnalijek           0           0    1941751           0           0          0    1941751
1999           SEF Kopex          1683086           0          0           0    1683086            0          0
1998           SEF Lignosper      1975453           0          0           0    1713646           0           0
1999           SEF Ujanovici      2142057           0          0           0    2142057           0           0
1977           TKA Cazin          3170245           0          0           0    3170245           0           0
1998           Wood Agency-AL    4251037            0          0           0           0          0           0
1999           Wood Inga          1499450           0          0           0     299890           0           0
1999           Wood Konjuh        2142057           0          0           0    1904051           0           0
1999           Wood Kozara        1499440           0          0           0    1261434           0           0
1999           Wood Podgradci    1071029            0          0           0     880624           0           0
1999           Wood Vrbas         1499450           0          0           0     299890           0           0
Total Portfolio  35121687    2581623    1941751             0   27543306    1580228    1941751



Annex 10
Page 1 of 4
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
Overview
1.    The review of project components during the Environmental and Social Consultation
Meeting of January 25, 1999 indicated that the project is unlikely to have significant adverse
environmental impacts. The project was accordingly confirmed as Category B. To prevent,
minimize or mitigate site specific negative impacts, however, this Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) and a set of mitigation measures have been prepared. This EMP is an attachment of
the Project Implementation Plan. The Customs Administrations will inform the public of the
availability of the EMP as part of the permitting process. The Administrations will also provide
to the Bank any specific mitigation actions identified in the permitting process, through the
Project Implementation Team (PIT).
Minimization of Negative Impact
2.   The major concerns about possible negative site specific impacts associated with border
crossings relate to: (i) emissions from vehicles waiting for customs clearances; (ii) drainage of
disinfectants and spills of oils and fuel; (iii) waste disposal and loose garbage; and (iv) site
disruptions caused by upgrades or relocations of utilities or such infrastructure as buildings,
parking/waiting areas, and access roads.
3.   The objective of the Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Project
to reduce constraints on traffic flows at border crossings, including the simplification of
paperwork and reduction of processing times, will correspondingly reduce standing time and
vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles. Processed and road side waste and garbage will
also be reduced and better managed. The small scale of physical investment, largely limited to
the improvement of in-place facilities, offers only limited potential threat. Specific actions
included in the EMP (See Exhibit 1) to further minimize potentially negative impact and promote
institutional development include:
*  Liaison with Environmental Authorities
*  Training and Sensitization
*  Site Certification
*  Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
*  Provisions in Construction Contracts
Liaison with Environmental Authorities
4.   Contacts between the FCA, the RSCA and the Ministry of Urbanism, Housing, Civil
Engineering, and Ecology (RS), and the Federal Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment
need to be regularized. This will be affected through the establishment of an environmental
officer in the FCA and RSCA, who with the assistance of the PIT will be responsible for liaison,
monitoring and reporting on environmental aspects. As the project progresses the environmental
officers should take increased responsibility for these functions. Eventually the PIT would serve



Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
primarily as a back-up and provide input for the environmental reporting process. Environmental
issues will be included in the public information program to be provided by the RSCA and FCA.
Training and Sensitization
5.   The environmental officers in conjunction with the Environmental Ministries will assist the
training consultant in the design and provision of training and sensitization for the staff of the
customs service relating to the importance of environmental issues and protection. Standard
procedures and guidelines based on the national environmental regulations will be developed. In
coordination with the appropriate outside ministries and agencies such specialized training as
veterinary inspection will be designed.
Site Certification
6.  In order to promote acceptable practice and minimization of environmental impact at all
stations, the environmental officers jointly with a representative of the Environmental Ministries
will inspect border crossings. On the basis of satisfactory compliance with regulations and
procedures a letter of certification of compliance will be issued. Particular attention will be given
to assure correction procedures relating to (i) the storage and use of disinfecting materials and
chemicals at the sanitary and disinfecting border stations and (ii) waste materials including
hazardous materials and garbage. Discussions were held with the representatives of the NEA
relative to these responsibilities, to confirm their ability to provide the services referenced in the
EMP.
Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
7.   The project supports the harmonization of standards with those of the EU. Particular
attention will be given to those relating to hazardous materials. The environmental officer will
consult with the Environmental Ministries to ensure progressive application of appropriate
standards. Progress in this area will be regularly reported to the PIT and included in reports to
IDA.
8.   The project will enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international
conventions and agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant would be the
regulations included in such agreements as (i) the European Agreement Concerning the
International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol
of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the Intemational trade in Endangered Species (CITES);
(iii) the Convention on the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special
Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP) of September 1970; and (iv) Basel Convention
on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal of May
1992.
Provisions in Construction Contracts
9.   As required by the national environmental regulations, environmental assessments will be
prepared to examine the potential negative environmental impact and mitigation measures for any
new major construction projects. Acceptance and payment by the PIT would be dependent upon
the presentation of such details and presentation of associated environmental clearances. All
contracts would contain clauses requiring proper waste disposal and the minimization of noise
and dust during construction.



Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
10. Contract specifications should require station construction methods and procedures to
comply with national laws and regulations specifying environmental limitations with respect to
navigable streams.



Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
Exhibit 1
Liaison with         The RSCA and FCA have designated an environmental officer who in
Environmental        collaboration with the PIT will be responsible for: (i) liaison with
Authorities          environmental officials of the Environmental Ministries; (ii) the review
and monitoring of the EMP; (iii) the provision of periodic status reports
to the PIT; (iv) consultations with such interested parties as NGOs; and
(iv) the provision of support for supervision missions. The government
will assure that the environmental officer has access to information
relevant to the project and environmental compliance.
Training and         The RSCA and FCA in conjunction with environmental officials of the
Sensitization        Environmental Ministries will provide training and sensitization of staff
at each border crossing. Standard procedures will be specified. Special
training will be offered for veterinary inspection.
Certification of     The Environmental Ministries jointly with the environmental officers of
Acceptable Practice at the RSCA and FCA will inspect border crossing for certification of the
Border Crossings     acceptability of practices and minimization of environmental impact at
all stations. Particular attention will be given to (i) the storage and use
of disinfecting materials and chemicals at the disinfecting border
stations and (ii) waste materials including hazardous materials and
garbage.
Harmonization of     One of the goals of the project is to assist harmonization with EU and
Standards            intemational standards. The environmental officers will consult with the
Environmental Ministries periodically on progress and provide progress
reports to the PIT. The environmental officer will ensure compliance
with evolving regulatory requirements and conventions.
Construction         (i) Designs for new construction or remodeling will include plans for
the minimization of negative impacts.
(ii) Mitigation measures identified during the permitting process will be
provided to IDA.
(iii) Contract Documents will contain clauses requiring minimization of
noise, dust, and waste disposal during construction.
(iv) All works will comply with local environmental regulations.
(v) All works will be done following environmentally sound
construction standards and procedures



Annex 11
Page 1 of 3
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
CAFAO Past and On-going Activities in the Country
Main Past Activities    Results Achieved
(i) To build confidence  Creation of a unified customs administration in the Federation
between the three     Opening of several northern border crossings
ethnic groups and in the  Facilitation of inter-entity cooperation and freedom of movement
newly established
customs services
(ii) To increase      Revenue increased from DM315 million (96) to DM500 million (97)
significantly the     Improved accounting for revenues collected and improved collection
revenue collected     (fighting evasion and fraud)
(iii) To improve      Preparation of the Permanent law on Customs Policies and of the
customs legislation   Customs Tariff Law and Schedule.
(iv) To define needs  Study to analyze the need for computerization to converge to EU
and provide equipment  standards and assistance to implement recommendations
for computerization
(v) To train staff    Basic training (computer-enforcement-valuation-procedures-SAD) for
a few hundred staff. Study tour for heads of Customs Administration.
(vi) To define        Report on the organization and infrastructure of the CS in RS and in
organizational and    the Federation. Implementation of the recommendations.
infrastructure needs  Review of the report in September 1998.
On-going Activities    Description of Proposed Activities relevant to the Project
(199-2001) _
1. Internal Audit and    Assist in the establishment of internal audit units in the Customs and
Management Assurance  Tax Administrations, inclusive of drafting audit and assurance
(Project A)           programs and in the transfer of skills through CAFAO staff working
alongside local customs and tax auditors.
2. Operational Planning  Assist the Customs and Tax Administrations in both Entities to
and Information       develop Operational Planning and Business Information Systems to
Systems (Project A)   encourage better performance and increase outputs, improve budgetary
and financial planning and improve communications.
3. Customs Training    (i) Continue the CAFAO program's training project in BiH, with a
(Project B)           focus on customs and tax enforcement, as well as training in new
customs and tax procedures, as well as training in new customs and
tax procedures taking into account the new customs and tax laws.
Training will also be provided to meet the needs of other CAFAO
projects and may include some training abroad.
(ii) Assist in the development of self-sustaining customs and tax
training structures in each Entity.
4. Computerization    Provide assistance in implementation of a country- wide computerized
(ASYCUDA++) -         system  based on ASYCUDA++, including project management,
Customs (Project C)    training and changes to work procedures.



Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 3
5. Customs Legislation   Provide assistance on drafting of implementation regulations for the
(Project D)           permanent BiH Customs Law and implementation of the law and
implementation regulation.
6. Implementation of    Assistance in implementation of new customs procedures as provided
Customs Procedures    for under the newly passed BiH Law on Customs Policy, including
(Project D)           changes to customs procedures and working methods as identified by
the CAFAO program.
7. Enforcement        (i) Review current legislation on customs and tax enforcement,
Legislation (Project D)  including powers, penalties, offences and debt management.
(ii) Draft appropriate legislation.
8. Organization and   (i) Undertake follow-up review of organization and Infrastructure of
Infrastructure of     the Entity Customs Services.
Customs (Project D)    (ii) Support the implementation of report recommendations through
provision of advice and assistance to both customs administrations.
(iii) Draft appropriate legislation.
(iv) Provide technical assistance on the renovation of the identified
Federation customs and tax headquarters building.
(v) Assist in the development of appropriate headquarters and regional
structures, including improved human resource management.
9. International      Assist and advise the relevant BiH authorities to develop cooperation
Co-operation and      and supporting agreements between the Entity Customs and Tax
Accession to Inter-   Administrations.
national Conventions
(Project D)
10. Single            Assist and co-ordinate the introduction of the SAD and changes to
Administrative        associated customs procedures.
Document (SAD)
(Project D)
11. Inter-Entity      Assist in the development and implementation of mutual assistance
Customs and Tax       agreements between the Entity Customs and Tax Administrations.
Co-operation
(Project D, E & F)
12. Customs           (i) Assist the Entity Customs Administrations to improve customs
Compliance and        revenue compliance generally and, specifically the establishment of an
Enforcement           effective customs enforcement capacity. Assistance includes the
(Project E)           provision of supporting equipment, as well as extensive support and
advice concerning anti-smuggling, investigation and intelligence work.
Skills transfer is facilitated by CAFAO officers working alongside
local customs officers.
(ii) Technical assistance and advice on the introduction of effective
customs seals.
13. Airport Cargo and   (i) Review current customs operations at international airports.
Passenger Control     (ii) Assist in implementation of review recommendations concerning
(Project E)           work methods.
14. Establishment of    Continue to advise and assist international organizations, including the
BiH Border Police     OHR, the United Nations International Police Task Force and SFOR
(Project E)           on customs issues associated with the introduction of a State level
border police in BiH.



Annex 11
Page 3 of 3
15. Border Monitoring   Continue to monitor customs activities at the border and provide
(Project E)           relevant information to support the CAFAO program.
16. Co-operation      Assist in the establishment of close co-operation between all revenue
Between Revenue       authorities, including the possible integration of all three services
Collection Authorities   (customs, tax and financial police).
(Project E & F)
17. Financial Police  Review the role and responsibility of the Financial Police in each
(Project F)           Entity.
18. Management        Provide management advice and assistance to all levels within the
Advice (Projects      Customs and Tax Administrations.
A, B, C, D, E&F)
19. Elimination of    Assist the Federation Customs and Tax Administrations to completely
Parallel Institutions  eliminate parallel lines of communication and management based on
(Projects A, B, C, D,    ethnic divisions (as currently being pursued by the international
E & F)                community and as required under the conclusions of the Federation
Forum). Assistance includes the continuation of confidence-building
measures within the Federation, as well as between the ethnic groups
in BiH.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                     9/13/00
Bosnia  Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     and    Central   mWdle.
Herzegovina      Asia  income        Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (.nniftlns)                        ..       475      2,094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Aftas rnethods IS$                      .-    2,150       1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$b.lns)                           4.5      1,022     Z,13                        T
Average annual growth, 199399
Population %)                                                     0.1       1A1
Labor forre C%)                                                   0.6       12      GNP                              Gross
per    I                       primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199349)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty t% of populaton blow national poveily irne)
Urban population (% of total population)                43        67        43
Life expectancy at birth (yeas)                         73        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                13        22        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                         8        15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of populato.n)            ..             86
Iliteracy (% of opulation age 15+)                                 3        16
Gross primary enrollment (°h of school-age popation)             100       114        -Bosnia and Hersgovina
tate                                                           101       114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 -        99       116
KEY ECONOMtC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios*
GOP (USS billions                              ..-               4.1        4.6
Gross domestic investmenYGOP                    ..        .     3.0        33                      Trade
Exports of goods and sevices/GDP                ,,              33.7      340T
Gross dormestic savings/GOP                     ..          ..    1.1       9A
Gross national savingslGDP                               ..      10.9      16.7
Cunent account balance/GDP                               .      -27.1      166      Domestic
Interest payrnerts/GDP                          ..      ..        1.4       1.4          i                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..       ..       74.0      67.5      a
Total debt servicelexports                     ..       ..        9.6       7,9
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..        .      2S.7 
Present value of debtexports                                    75.3
Indebtedness
197949  1989         199       1999   199943
(average annual growth)
GOP                                                   12,8       10.0      it.o            Bosnia and He,zegovina
GNP per capita                                        12.8       10.O      11.1               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                         33,7      11.0       12.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investnent and GDP (X1
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                                      15.8      15.B
Industry                                                        27.8      27.8      50s
Manufacturing                                                                     25
Services                                       .         ..     56.4       56.4      o-     l     l      
Private consumption                             .        ..                 9..    2s                  9    97   98   g
General govemment consumption                  .GDt                                                          0  GOP
Imports of goods and services                                   70.6      57.9
197949  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growthvl)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..                         180 T
Industry                                                                           120
Manufacturing                                ..
Services                                        ..
Private consumption                             ..                                    -
General govemment consumption                  ..       ..         ..        ..                  95   95   97   98
Gross domestic investment                       ..      ..       3.7       -3.5        -so
Imports of goods and services                            ..      7.8       -9.8           -     Exports     E  Imports
Gross national product                                   ..      17.3      1t.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                     20
(% change)
Consumer prices (in KM, the Federation)                           5.0       0.0      10
Implicit GDP deflator                                                                o ..          A     I 0
Government finance                                                                  .10      4                 97   D3   99
(% of GDP, incdudes current grants)                                                 -20-
Current revenue                                                  32.6      29.4    230
Current budget balance                                           -0.6      -3.7            -     GDP deflator  O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -7.2      -3.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979    1989        1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                               817       970     3,000
na.
n.a.                                                                              2.000 
ManufaGtures
Total imports (cifl                                             2,573     2,399
Food                                                                              1.000
Fuel and energy                               *.
Capital goods                                                                        o-  * .        * 0
Export price index (1 995=100)                                                            97
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                   * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%),
(US$ millions)                                                                       incl current olficial transfers
Exports of goods and services                                   1,367     1,560
Imports of goods and services                                   2,864     2,661      0 -
Resource balance                                               -1,498    -1,101          93
Net income                                                       -111       -79              U      .
Netcurrenttransfers                                               510      417
Current account balance                                        -1,098      -763                        1    1           I
Financing items (net)                                           1,014     1,347
Changes in net reserves                                            85      -583
Memo:                                                                               -30 -
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                            175       380
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUUS$)                 ..       ..       1.8       1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed
IBRD                                          .        ..       596      596G27
IDA                                                             437      373                                A: 596
Total debt service                              ..
IBRD                                                             35       34          F:400
IDA                                           .        ..         2        3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   8:437
Official grants                                                 469      735 6                                      437
Official creditors                                              181      255
Private creditors                                               -75      -74                                      7
Foreign direct investment                                         0       60                                    c 7
Portfolio equity                                                  0        0              E: 1,124           0:70
World Bank program
Commitments                                                     100      163      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                   135       68      B-IDA    D -Otherrmultilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                              0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-termn
Net flows                                                       135       68
Interest payments                                                38       36
Net transfers                                                    97       32
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/13/00






MAP SECTION






44            ' F                            4!                                                                              P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 31072
RIA                                                              M keg\yf,                               Moe                   -~\4
-~~~~   '1           Nc/Or                                .                     *1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~~~$otu~~~~W  More  4.                        P(,         7 .0
benz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 -  Fre  B0 e4o, 
4A4- ~   ~       ~      M
d.   an                                                                          d~~~~~~4n 
.c ~~~ r        CIu~j-Nopt                              Neomt
-.                                   ,4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rg    -
N                                                                                                                                                           Roe                    -,~~~~~~~i  - ---
F.q-!~~~~~~
-  --4                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B-6
Peccorec  ~~~~~BSNA   ND-
Ocicronro ~~~~~t4T~~.  <   j (A  ~~~~~  Priit4eo          C'.                                     Buc' a4rest2~    -
I BOSNIA AND HERZEOOVINA                                                                 GpoEver           R             ) HeRZE~eNAIF
reJECT-  4---.  Per,                     54414  fr~   irapo       C    I      IAC        NI                  i-''
pht~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dr                                                                            .
½                                                                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T)c
NFRA,TRCCUR Pk4,cCT  444 ;44  1*1     YSteuge  o  Pr lop                                                '.  .                                 -'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~   c
44444E4>4)S            "                                       .      .     ~      ~     ~     '   >>'~~                  '0.                                      JN,bro..S.fc rci- 
SOUTHEAcSE EUROP4E4  REGPI4 OEMEN          g4;.                                  )z         Tree    '>)4<4                            >                                                                                         UE
FACILI ATION'4 'PITA SOUTHEAST                                                                  itq                                                                                                 Pdbesr
200               --              -T~~~~~ope 
44at4.eccPe4'4.cT4o
EUROPAEC4 PROJECT                                                                                                                     cot'.r/to~14-
/  £4JEOEeETEO                          F                 e~Pcfl20
0d,f F44 4-4SN44F4p4,.A   4 AND HEREGOVIN-                                                                          R To -                                                        -clc_ncIine5o-E
PIRD ECT'          At' Tirana                      E          IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PPDnEE24






SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION  IR  17
<>KU77                                 ,TRADE AND TRANSPORT
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
V  ~~4>so.~~ 190/32 190/32 ~~~¶7                        (BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA)
w    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~300 a600w                                                                              MAIN TRADE PATTERNS
v.,   ~ ~ ~     68$06                                                      >IMPORT AND EXPORT PATTERNS (1998):
~~10V                                     2150/32                                                              EXPORTS fUS$, WI-)       IMPORTS (U53, M,16.,~~~~~~~~~~~>  4  ErO  5p.,    505.,d5. .&r. .ssrsrxr
20375 $2000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~581S0
1  t ~~~       (heroes,b oo,oorsl  B 5$3AN s   os, op     jeI
$80  $1500 ~    630OdO 
As-
$3180 $2100Eors                                                MAIN MACRO-TRADE INDICATORS:
S~AN  ARINO            03363$15                                                                                                                                          GDP PER CAPITA, 1998 (US$)
Zo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Po
W7004/53012 96-        16
51930  -'  K    -u  96/36 S6/3  BULGARIA                Imports:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oc
Seo                                                BULGARIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABAI                       .   0            1
Exports Imports       '"N.                    ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~BOSNIA &  4.1  o.o   2 5   1200
6slz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                             i~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~CROATIA                          20 5   4.4  06  4530
4 24 4AI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-5                                              FYR MACEDONIA   3.5  1.3   1 9  1290
ROMANIA      38.2  8.3  11.0  1390
12A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
~'-~'Y  0 10 $120                                                                                               KILOMETERS
(7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ TRe
5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                    heroooodrsAoxxU.xts~tx,
tS~~~~~~                                     /                                                                 orAsoosr,orooorooxsot,,r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oooro,.o~~~5ErMBr71



