Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3466 BOS
Project Agreement
(Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Dated August 1, 2001
CREDIT NUMBR 3466 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of August 1, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Republika Srpska.
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights                                 
(SDR 8,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that Republika Srpska agrees to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Republika Srpska (Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit Agreement), a part of the 
proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to Republika Srpska on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS Republika Srpska, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Republika Srpska declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall, carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for said Part B 
of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Republika Srpska shall otherwise agree, Republika 
Srpska shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works, goods and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Republika Srpska shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Part B of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Republika Srpska shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and Republika Srpska, a plan for 
the future operation of Part B of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Republika Srpska on said plan.
Section 2.04. Republika Srpska shall duly perform all its obligations under 
Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit Agreement. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Republika Srpska shall not take or concur in any action which would 
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving Republika Srpska 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Republika Srpska shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
Republika Srpska shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Republika 
Srpska of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Republika Srpska 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Republika Srpska shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures in connection with the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
Page  3
(b)
Republika Srpska shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Republika Srpska shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable Republika Srpska, not later than 
May 15, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the  
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for Part B 
of the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45 days) 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Republika Srpska thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date thirty (30) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Republika Srpska of this event.
Page  4
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Republika Srpska:
Republika Srpska Ministry of Finance
Vuka Karadzica 4
78000 Banja Luka, Republika Srpska
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387 51 21854
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Republika 
Srpska, or by Republika Srpska on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance or such other person or 
persons as Republika Srpska shall designate in writing, and Republika Srpska shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Siew Chai Ting
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Page  5
By /s/ Mirko Sarovic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the following provisions of 
the following Parts of Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part A:
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more for goods and $200,000 equivalent or more for works shall be 
advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under 
paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  6
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for carrying out of the supervision of the civil works component at 
Raca, the design and supervision of the civil works at an inland terminal, and audits 
under the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultants’ Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Implementation Responsibilities
(1)
The PIT, acting under the direction of the Project Manager, shall bear all 
technical responsibilities for implementing the Project as described in the PIP, 
including: (a) preparation of an annual plan for Project implementation; (b) 
preparation, with the assistance of consultants, Republika Srpska and the Federation 
of bidding and contract documents under the Project; (c) the maintenance of the 
Project financial records and accounts and arranging for the audit thereof; (d) 
preparation of the quarterly reports on Project progress, referred to in Part B of 
this Schedule; and (e) supervision of progress of Project implementation.
(2)
Republika Srpska, acting through the RSCA, shall ensure that the PIT shall be 
maintained until the completion of the Project under terms of reference and with staff 
and other measures satisfactory to the Association. 
(3)
Republika Srpska shall ensure: (a) that each annual plan for Project 
implementation referred to paragraph (1) above shall be prepared after a review 
between Republika Srpska and the Association of progress in meeting the targets 
indicated in the PIP, including the targets set forth in the Annex to this Schedule; 
and (b) that the inclusion of investments and other Project activities in said plan, 
Page  7
as well as the procurement arrangements thereof, shall be made in agreement between 
Republika Srpska and the Association, taking into account the requirements set forth 
in the Environmental Management Plan. 
(4)
Republika Srpska shall: (a) maintain its participation in the RSC; and (b)  
inform the Association of actions taken at the RSC level which may affect the 
implementation of the Regional Program or of measures included in the PIP.
(5)
Republika Srpska shall ensure the establishment and functioning, by March 31, 
2001, of mechanisms at all border agencies to provide the Facilitation Coordinator 
with current information to be made available to customs users, on waiting times and 
opening hours at border crossing and customs regulations and procedures of border 
agencies.
(6)
Republika Srpska shall ensure, in coordination with the PIT, that the  contracts 
under Parts B.1 and B.3 of the Project are implemented in compliance with the bidding 
documents.
B.
Reporting
Republika Srpska shall ensure the preparation by PIT for submission to the 
Association of quarterly reports on the progress of Project implementation.
C.
Monitoring
Republika Srpska shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators included in the PIP and 
satisfactory to Republika Srpska and the Association, including those set forth in the 
Annex to this schedule;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by October 15 of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 15 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
Annex to
SCHEDULE 2
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Republika Srpska shall take all 
necessary measures to achieve the following targets:
(a)
the total number of customs declarations which result in a physical 
inspection by the RSCA at its pilot inland terminal does not exceed, on a monthly 
basis:  (i) 20% by September 30, 2001; and (ii) 15% by September 30, 2002;
(b)
the number of trucks completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes 
at its pilot inland terminal exceeds, on a monthly basis: (i) 10% by September 30, 
2001; and (ii) 15% by September 30, 2002; and
(c)
the number of trucks opened at its pilot border-crossings does not 
exceed, on a monthly basis: (i) 40% by September 30, 2001; and (ii) 20% by September 
30, 2002.
