The Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
E1463
Environmental Management Plan
For Gas Seep Harvesting Projecti
August, 2006
1 This Resettlement Policy Framework for Gas Seep Harvesting Project is only applicable for Aliambata Gas Seep Project.



1.    Introduction
This Environment Management Plan (EMP) was developed by EDTL on behalf of the
government for the proposed project. The objectives of this EMP are to identify the
potential effects of the gas collection, electrical generation facilities and electrical
distribution lines on the local population and environment, develop a management
methodology to minimize the risks and potentially adverse environmental effects beyond
the perimeter of the site. It will provide guidelines to both EDTL and its contractors
during the construction and operation of the proposed project in the aspects of
environment, health and safety associated with the project (both power generation and
distribution lines)
2     The Project
The principal project involves the collection of natural gas from the Aliambata gas seep
and the use of this gas for electrical generation. Electrical distribution to the villages of
Aliambata, Borolalo and Babulo, and the electrical interconnection with the Uatolari
distribution system, will be regarded as sub-projects. The project comprises two major
components:
Component A: A demonstration project at around 450 kW in Aliambata to
demonstrate the technical feasibility and economic viability of gas seep for power
generation in Timor-Leste.
This component will be implemented by EDTL. Its major activities would include:
* Construction of a dual-fuel power plant at Aliambata, using the gas from the seeps
and diesel oil for power generation. The capacity of the proposed power plant will
be 3x150 kW. One of the generators would be a new gas generator set. The other
two would be existing units operating on diesel oil and the proposed project
would modify them to operate on both indigenous gas and diesel. The two
converted generators would have engines that would automatically adjust the
gas/diesel oil ratio, which would vary depending on gas quality, quantity available
and local ambient conditions. However about 70-80 percent the fuel would come
from gas. The 20-30 percent would come from diesel oil only to ensure the
capability of the system to meet peak demand.
* Building of 20 kV distribution lines to connect the proposed power plant to the
existing EDTL systems at Uatolari and Uatocarabau and to new consumers in the
rural communities near the proposed power plant, including Aliambata, Babula
and Borolalo. This connection would increase the availability of power supply at
Uatulari and Uatucarabao from 6 hours to 24 hours per day. Overall, the gas-
based power generators at Aliambata would supply electricity to approximately
1,000 households currently connected to the power system and about 2,000 new
households as well as some small commercial customers. The electrical
distribution route will be agreed between EDTL and the local communities, but



will largely follow existing roads to reduce the intrusion onto private property as
much as possible. Trees may need to be removed or trimmed in some areas of the
route.
Component B: A demonstration of electricity fee collection system based on pre-
paid meters and community engagement.                 w
* Testing of a system of revenue collection using cost effective prepaid metering
system to ensure the financial sustainability of the project. The system would
apply the standard tariffs that EDTL charges and, as in the case of the Dili system,
consumers would receive prepaid meters, free of charge. New customers also
would pay EDTL standard connection charges, less the cost of the prepayment
meter. A community awareness creation and consultation campaign will be
undertaken during the implementation of the project based the public consultation
carried out during the project preparation to ensure the proposed system can be
implemented properly.
Table 1: Technical parameters of the electrical distribution sub-project.
Medium Voltage                    Low Voltage
,~~..      , ,, , ,,, ., ,, ..... .. .. ........... ...   ,,.. ..... ..............  ..   .   ... .... .... ..   ..... ..  ----- --  ....  ...   .  .'''''''' '..'''''''"''..'''
Village       House      20 kV     Number of     Number of      0.4 kV    Number of
Hold     Line (km)     Poles     Transformers     Line         Poles
Aliambata      80          1          13             1           290          4
Borolalo       333         3          53             1          1,200         15
Babulo         474         2          27             1          1,710         21
; .......... ... .......... i.. . ........-.. . ... ....... .. ............ ... . ...... .. J ....... ....... ...........
Uatolari      3761        0.2          4           N/A           N/A         N/A
3.     Existing Environment
The climate in Timor Leste is typical for a tropical monsoon climate. It is hot and dry
from July to November with the western monsoon bring the rains from December to
March. It is cooler and more humid in the mountain area.
The natural gas seeps are located approximately 1 km from the village of Aliambata in
the east part of Timor-Leste, approximately 100 m from the main coastal road, on
elevated land at the end of a short track. The terrain is mountainous covered with
bush/jungle. There is no one living at the site, with the nearest village being Aliambata.
The land is owned by the local government.
The ground surrounding the immediate site is bare as a result of past gas emissions.
Natural forest vegetation lies within 10-15 m of the seeps on all sides. The seep area lies
on sloping terrain, directly adjacent to an area of flat land downslope. No fauna were seen
during the recent site visit although domestic buffalo are known to be grazed in the area.



Figure 3.1 Gas Seep Site
,-..
*"                            - -
p.-.
,    -       -              t4g
The gas from the gas seep is comprised of methane (CH4), carbon dioxide (C02),
nitrogen and oxygen with trace amounts of non-methane organic compounds and other
substances.
*  methane is a colourless, odourless gas that is flammable (and potentially explosive) in
concentrations ranging from 5% to 15% in air (the lower (LEL) and upper (UEL)
explosive limits respectively)
*  carbon dioxide is a colourless, odourless and non-combustible gas that is a minor
component of the atmosphere.
The principal products resulting from the combustion of methane are water vapour
(H20), carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. The gas used in a gas engine will emit
carbon monoxide (CO) which is potentially lethal if vented into a confined space so the
gas engine installation will ensure that all exhaust gases are appropriately vented outside
the enclosure.
Local villagers are understood to ignite the gas in the seeps so products of combustion are
already present at the site in varying concentrations.



4     Potential Effects and Risks Associated with the Proposed Project
The gas collection facility, electrical generation facilities and power distribution line have
been designed to minimize the potential effects of on the surrounding environment and to
ensure personal and environmental safety. These elements are discussed below.
4.1   Collection device and flare
The gas collection structure consists of a perimeter wall buried to around 1.5 m below
ground level and a fully sealed cover to ensure that methane is collected with a minimum
of oxygen (02) ingress to limit the risk of an explosive mixture. The permanent gas
collection system will cover an area of approximately 50 m2.
An explosion vent in the cover will ensure that the structure is not irreparably damaged
should an explosion occur, and that the risk to site personnel is minimised. The design of
the entire gas collection system will ensure that the risks to people and the environment
are not significant.
Water condensate generated from the collection system and associated pipework will be
allowed to drain into the soil beneath the site.
The flare tip will be located at least 2.5 m above ground level and will be located behind
a security fence at a distance of at least 10 m from the nearest vegetation. This will ensure
that people do not come into close contact with the stack and that any potential heat or
combustion gas effects on nearby vegetation are minimized.
The API guidelines for flare stack design identify the need to consider radiant heat
exposure of personnel. The flare will be suitably designed and of adequate height to
prevent a hazard to workers or the public. The flare will also incorporate suitable systems
and design features to prevent flashback and maintain ignition of the flame so that the
risks to people and the environment as a result of the location and operation of the flare
will be minimal.
4.2   Electrical generation facilities and distribution line
It is proposed to establish the generating plant on the area of flat land immediately below
the gas seep. The equipment will be mounted on a concrete slab base and housed in a
weather-proof structure. The electrical distribution system is likely to follow the road
along the coast from the generating plant to the villages with the cable being suspended
on pole structures. This design is similar to existing systems which have avoided land
ownership issues. The line will cross a river, the Sungai Bebui, with a single span and
will therefore have no adverse effect. No adverse environmental effects are anticipated in
relation to the design of the electrical generation facilities and distribution line.



5     Construction Effects and Risks
Health and Safety operational requirements and specific procedures (Health and Safety
Plan) will be developed for the proposed project. Before any staff member of EDTL or
contractor undertakes any construction, operation, maintenance or repair on the system
they will be trained in the health and safety requirements and follow the procedures set
out in the Site Health and Safety Plan.
5.1   Potential impacts
The key environmental impacts of the construction and operation of the proposed project
primarily relates to:
* Vegetation clearance at the gas collection site prior to construction to establish
facilities, and along the proposed distribution line route;
* Runoff of soils and concrete during construction related to minor earthworks required
at the gas collection site and during pole structure installation.
* Spillage of fuels or lubricants used for engine-generators and vehicles at the site or
along the distribution line route.
Earthworks that are required will probably be undertaken largely by hand and
construction of the facility is expected to take no more than a few weeks. The principal
construction activities consist of:
* a 1.5 m deep trench excavated around the perimeter of the seeps and the installation
of power plant foundations.
* holes for the installation of pole structures to support the power cables.
Overall, the potential impacts are not considered to be significant since no major works
will be undertaken. Construction activities at the site are likely to fall within the already
clear area adjacent to the burning gas seeps. The collection structure installed over the
seeps will effectively reduce that area of exposed soil.
All fuels and lubricants stored on site, whether temporarily during construction or longer
term for power plant use, will be held in appropriately sealed containers and stored in
bunded areas. Engine-generator units will be installed such that spilled lubricants are
contained and collected.
5.2   Roles and responsibilities
Electrical generation facilities in the Viqueque Province are almost entirely under the
ownership and control of EDTL and EDTL will assume ownership of the new generation
and distribution facilities to be constructed under the project. The roles and
responsibilities during the construction and operational phases are as follows:



* SKM, the consultant hired by the government for Gas Seep Sampling and Use of
Natural Gas studies, has responsibility for the preliminary design and specification of
safe gas collection, electrical generation and distribution facilities,
*  The contractors are responsible for environmental protection as well as the safety of
local villagers and construction personnel during construction,
*  The client and eventual owner of the facilities (EDTL) will assume responsibility for
the ongoing protection of the local environment and also the safety of their operating
staff and the local population when the facilities are taken over from the main
contractor.
6     Operational Risks and Effects
Operational guidelines under which the gas will be collected and either used or flared will
be dealt with in the site Health and Safety Plan. The key details in relation to design and
operation as they relate to potential effects on the environment and the ways in which
these risks /effects will be managed are described below.
6.1   Gas and combustion products
The development of the Aliambata gas seeps will involve the combustion of the gas,
resulting in combustion products as identified above. The potential effects of these
products are minimal due to the following:
* the key combustion products, H20 and C02, are harmless
*  other trace elements and gases, if present, are at undetectable concentrations
*  the nearest local villages are located a considerable distance from the site.
Gas has been discharged from the seeps for many years with no reported incidences of
adverse effects of nearby sensitive receptors such as people, vegetation or animals. The
removal of methane, a significantly more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, is
considered to be a major benefit of the proposed project.
One tonne of methane has a Greenhouse Warming Potential equivalent to 23 tonnes of
carbon dioxide. Burning the methane from the Aliambata gas seeps may be
conservatively estimated to have the effect of a net reduction of around 7,000 t/year of
C02 emission.
6.2   Visual effects and noise
The visual effect of the proposed gas collection and electrical generation facilities is
expected to be minimal since:
* the facility will be approximately 100 m from the main coastal road and will not be
visible from this key viewpoint,



* the proposed facility is small in scale with the collection system itself being low to
the ground.
The only components of the system of any height will be the gen-set enclosure and the
flare. The power distribution lines suspended between pole structures will be visible from
the roadside. This view will be similar to other areas of Timor with similar distribution
line systems. Although the proposed generation plant is likely to emit a significant
amount of noise, this is expected to have a limited effect on the environment as:
*  the nearest village is located a considerable distance (approximately 1 km) from the
site,
*  the surrounding dense vegetation affords natural attenuation properties, and
*  noisy equipment (engine generators, etc) will be housed in sound-attenuating
enclosures to reduce the amount of noise generated.
6.3   Local population
The potential risks to local personnel associated with the operation of the plant are most
likely to be limited to injury caused by combustion or explosion of gases contained
within the plant.
There are no people living in close proximity to the site. In the event of a significant gas
consuming development on the site, security personnel would be stationed at the site to
both monitor site safety and to ensure that no unauthorized persons are able to get close
to the facility.
6.4   Operational and maintenance criteria
Operational criteria have been established based on engineering judgment and operational
experience. Operational objectives for the proposed system include:
* maximize gas extraction consistent with minimizing the entrainment of air,
* maintain fugitive gas emissions to substantially less than the LEL of methane.
The gas collection system is intended to operate continuously and the operational and
maintenance procedures for the facility will be minimal.
6.5   Roles and responsibilities
In addition to identifying appropriate personnel to run the proposed facility, EDTLwill
need to develop a table of organization to identify the roles and responsibilities of both
sitebased and managerial personnel associated with the gas collection and electrical
generation facilities. A possible table of organization might include the following:



* Operations Manager, with overall responsibility for the operation and maintenance of
the facility
* Operations Engineer, with technical responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the
facility. In the absence of the Operations Manager, the Operations Engineer will be consulted
* Site Operating Team, responsible for routine operational activities and collection of data for
record keeping.
The Site Operating Team will be required to regularly liaise with the Operations Manager
and Operations Engineer to advise of routine activities, incidents and developments
pertinent to safe management of the site.
7     Plant Monitoring and Records
7.1   Plant Monitoring
Monitoring the condition and performance of the gas collection and electrical generation
facilities will be necessary to avoid environmental damage and to provide safe working
conditions, largely by identifying the flammable hazard posed by methane and ensuring
that the explosive conditions are minimized. Monitoring of the structures and equipment
at the site will be performed regularly to identify any repair work needed to maintain safe
working conditions on the site.
Site personnel would be expected to maintain a manual of Plant Operating and
Maintenance Procedures, containing vendor's reference material, and operation and
maintenance schedules with formal checklists. They should develop formal checklists for
operation and maintenance associated with the flare stack, gas collection facility and
power plant, and up-date these as required.
7.2   Records
Monitoring results and observations should be recorded either on a data logger or in the
operators' log. Senior Department personnel, in order to maintain a safe site and to
identify any changes in the performance of the gas delivery system, should evaluate the
data collected and incidents recorded. After each monitored event a team leader or
manager should identify any incident requiring immediate response in accordance with
the contingency plan.
Site records should be maintained to document all operational activities at the site as well
as the performance of the gas resource, including gas pressure, flowrate and composition.
A site plan will be maintained showing the 'as-built' layout of the gas collection system,
power plant and electrical equipment, and documenting all changes made to the facility.



7.3 Effects Mitigation Plan
The construction of distribution line does not present significant social or environmental
problems as the route will run on public land alongside existing roads. These roads skirt
the coast line for some distance and also pass through forested areas and rice paddy
fields. There will nevertheless be some effects and the responsibility for identifying and
mitigating these is presented in Table 2.
Table 2: Environmental effects mitigation plan
Phase       Issues                  Mitigation Measures                       Responsible
Authority
Construction  Cutting the trees from the  Before clearing, the route shall be clearly  Surveyor/Contractor
construction right of way.  marked, including trees to be cut
All clearing of vegetation will be done manually
or mechanically. No pesticides will be used
Runoff of soils and    Trenches and/or embankments will be dug   Surveyor/Contractor
concrete               around construction sites to contain any erosion
or runoff solids.
Construction will be conducted during dry
season
Soil/water contamination  Fuels and lubricants will be stored in sealed  Surveyor/Contractor
from lubricant and fuel  containers in designated areas on impervious
spillage               (e.g. concrete) pads. Areas will be bunded to
contain spills
Noise                  Construction will take place during normal  Contractor
daytime hours
Injury                 The contractor will provide safety wear such as  Contractor
safety helmets, shoes, etc., and will provide
training and advice for all employees
Risk from construction  Contractor will monitor work and install warning  Contractor
work to communities    signs as appropriate.
Operation   Carbon monoxide         Flare will be 2.5 m above ground and a security  Contractor
emissions              fence at a distance of 10 m from flare to insure
no hazard to workers or public
Soil/water contamination  Fuels and lubricants will be stored in sealed  Surveyor/Contractor
from lubricant and fuel  containers in designated areas on impervious
spillage               (e.g. concrete) pads. Areas will be bunded to
contain spills
Clearing and cutting the  Contractor will take care when cutting trees and  EDTL
trees along right of way  will not burn and cut material near the power
line.
All clearing of vegetation will be done manually
or mechanically. No pesticides will be used
Transformer insulating  6-month inspections to identify and leaking of  EDTL
and cooling oils leaks to  transformer oil or lubricants. Clean out and
contaminate water      disposal of any spilled insulating/cooling oils.
courses or soils
Transformers placed on impervious (e.g.
concrete) pads. Areas will be bunded to contain
spills
Noise                  Noisy equipment will be housed in sound-  EDTL
attenuating enclosures to reduce the amount of
noise generated



7.4      Monitoring Plan
Monitoring of social and environmental issues associated with the project will become
the responsibility of the appropriate RDTL agency, with an Environment Unit associated
with EDTL assuming responsibility for implementing environmental issues in the project.
Social issues will be resolved at the regional and village levels as appropriate. The
monitoring plan is presented below:
Phase                 Issue           How it will be monitored    When it will be monitored    Who will
monitor
Construction          Cutting the trees    Visual inspection of route  Prior to tree cutting        Contractor
from the construction  marking
right of way.
Visual    inspection    of  Weekly, during   vegetative
vegetative removal          removal
Runoff of soils and   Visual    inspection   of   After completion and after  Contractor
concrete              sediment      containment   rainstorm
systems
Soil/water            Visual    inspection   of   Weekly                      Contractor
contamination from    lubricant and fuel storage
lubricant and fuel    containers and storage area
spillage
Noise                 dB[A] meter                 Weekly   or  if there  are  Contractor
complaints
Injury                Visual inspection of workers  Weekly or more frequently if  Contractor
wearing  safety  equipment  violations are observed
and observing safe practices
Risk from             Visual inspection of warning  Weekly                    Contractor
construction work to  signs
communities
Operation             Carbon monoxide      Measurement of flare height  Once, after construction is  EDTL
emissions             and  visual inspection  of  complete
surrounding fence
Soil/water            Visual    inspection   of   Weekly                      EDTL
contamination from    lubricant and fuel storage
lubricant and fuel    containers and storage area
spillage
Cutting the trees     Visual    inspection   of                               EDTL
from the construction  vegetative  removal  and
right of way.         visual inspection of disposal
procedures
Transformer           Visual    inspection   of   Once, after construction is  EDTL
insulating and        transformer  location  and  complete
cooling oils leaks to  base structure
contaminate water                                 Every six months
courses or soils     Inspections to identify and
leaking of transformer oil or
lubricants.  Clean out and
disposal  of  any   spilled
insulating/cooling oils
Noise                Visual inspection of housing  Once, after construction is  EDTL
complete
dB[A] meter                 If there are complaints



- --- ------



