The Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
RP468
Resettlement Policy Framework
For Gas Seep Harvesting Project'
August, 2006
This Resettlement Policy Framework for Gas Seep Harvesting Project is only applicable for Aliambata Gas Seep Project.



Definitions
Compensation means payment in cash or in kind for an asset to be acquired or affected by a
project at replacement cost.
Cut-off Date is the date prior to which the occupation or use of the project area makes
residents/users of the project area eligible to be categorized as affected persons. The cut-off
date coincides with the date of the census of affected persons within the project area
boundaries. Persons not covered in the census, because they were not residing, having assets,
or deriving an income from the project area, are not eligible for compensation and other
entitlements.
Entitlement means a range of measures comprising compensation, income restoration support,
transfer assistance, income substitution, and relocation support which are due to affected
people, depending on the nature of their losses, to restore their economic and social base.
Project Authorities refer to Ministry of Natural Resources, Mineral and Energy Policy and its
EDTL
Displaced Persons (DP) includes any person or persons, households, a firm, or private or
public institution who, in the context of acquisition of assets and change in land usage, as of
the cut-off date, on account of the execution of the project, or any of its subcomponents or part,
would have their:
(a) Standard of living adversely affected;
(b) Right, title, or interest in any house, land (including residential, commercial,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other moveable or fixed assets acquired or
possessed, in full or in part, permanently or temporarily adversely affected; or
(c) Business, occupation, places of work or residence or habitat adversely affected, with
or without displacement.
DPs includes persons or affected household and consists of all members of a household
residing under one roof and operating as a single economic unit, who are adversely affected by
a project or any of its components. For resettlement purposes, displaced persons will be
considered as members of displaced households.
Rehabilitation means assistance provided to DPs seriously affected due to the loss of
productive assets, incomes, employment or sources of living, to supplement payment of
compensation for acquired assets, in order to improve, or at least achieve full restoration of
living standards and quality of life to pre-project level.
Relocation means the physical shifting of a DP from his/her pre-project place of residence,
place of work or business premises.
Replacement cost is the amount needed to replace an asset and is the value determined as
compensation for:



i. Agricultural land the pre-project or pre-displacement, whichever is higher, market value
of land of equal productive potential or use located in the vicinity of the affected land,
plus the cost of preparing the land to levels similar to those of the affected land, plus the
cost of any registration and transfer taxes;
ii. Land in urban areas, it is the pre-displacement market value of land of equal size and use,
with similar or improved public infrastructure facilities and services and located in the
vicinity of the affected land, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes;
iii. Houses and other related structures based on current market prices of materials,
transportation of material to construction site, cost of labor and contractor's fee, and cost
of any registration and transfer taxes. In determining replacement cost, depreciation of
the assets and value of salvaged building materials are not taken into account and no
deductions are made for the value of benefits to be derived from the project;
iv. Crops, trees and other perennials based on current market value; and
v. Other assets (i.e. income, cultural, aesthetic) based on replacement cost or cost of
mitigating measures.
Resettlement means all measures taken to mitigate any and all adverse impacts of a project on
DPs property and/or livelihoods, including compensation, relocation (where relevant) and
rehabilitation as needed.
Vulnerable groups are distinct groups of people who might suffer disproportionately or face
the risk of being marginalized from the effects of resettlement and specifically include: (i)
female headed households with dependents, (ii) disabled household heads, (iii) households
falling under the generally accepted indicator for poverty, (iv) elderly households with no
means of support and landlessness, and (v) indigenous minorities.



1. The Project
A small gas seep utilization demonstration project at Aliambata of Timor Leste is under
preparation. The objectives of the project are to (a) harvest natural gas, currently escaping into
the atmosphere from gas seeps at Aliambata; (b) to the extent feasible, utilize the gas for power
generation to benefit local communities, and (c) secure carbon credits for potential carbon trade
opportunities. The project is intended as a demonstration of how the nearly 30 gas seeps in
Timor-Leste can be exploited to benefit local communities from indigenous energy resources and
where feasible, to secure carbon credits for Timor-Leste.
The proposed project will provide low cost 24-hour electricity supply mainly to local
communities currently supplied by the existing diesel engines 6-hour per day. It will also connect
three un-electrified small villages near the gas seep site to electricity. The project will comprise
of (a) conversion of around 300 kW existing diesel generation sets into gas engines and
installation of the gas engines in the gas seep sites for power generation; (b) construction of
around 4 km of 20 kV distribution lines along a public road to connect the generators to an
existing small power grid supplying consumers in Uatolari; and (c) construction of low voltage
(400/230 V) lines to electrify two small villages along the new 20 kV distribution lines.
2. Policy Objectives and Potential of land acquisition impacts
2.1. This policy is developed in accordance with OP 4.12 of the World Bank on Involuntary
Resettlement. Objectives of the resettlement policy framework will include the following
elements:
(1) Involuntary resettlement should be avoided or minimized through design efforts.
(2) Where involuntary resettlement is unavoidable, resettlement activities should be
conceived and executed as sustainable development programs, providing sufficient
compensation, assistance and rehabilitation to the DPs so that they would be at least as
well off as they would have been in the absence of the project.
(3) DPs will benefit from the project by maximizing number of families to be connected to
distribution system and subsidize for vulnerable groups in connecting to project
distribution network.
(4) Project stakeholders (including DPs) are consulted and given the opportunity to
participate, as practicable, in the design, implementation, and operation of the project; and
(5) DPs should be assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihoods and standard of living
or at least to restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement levels.
The compensation and entitlement policy will apply to all displaced persons regardless of the total
number affected or the severity of impact. Particular attention is paid to the needs of vulnerable
groups among those displaced: especially those below the poverty line, the elderly, women and
children, and ethnic minorities.
2.2. A principle was agreed by the IDA project team and the Project Owner (Ministry of Natural
Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy) of Timor-Leste that impact on building (either Partially



or fully) will be completely avoided. Thus, impacts on land acquisition by the project will be
very minor, potential of land acquisition impacts are initially identified as below.
No.     Subproject                          Potential impacts of land acquisition
1.      Harvest natural gas, currently escaping  Located on public land in Aliambata,
into the atmosphere from gas seeps at  no compensation for land is required.
Aliambata site                     However compensation for properties
on land to individuals are required.
2.      Construction of around 4 km of 20 kV  The route would be along with the
distribution lines along a public road to  existing road, only about 0.25 m2 of
connect the generators to an existing  land to be acquired for each tower
small power grid supplying consumers  base and tall trees would be cut for
in Uatolari                        operating distribution system. No land
acquisition is required.
3.      Construction of low voltage (400/230  No land acquisition is required.
V) lines to electrify three small villages
along the new 20 kV distribution lines.
3. Legal Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement
The Timor Government has Law No. 1/2003 on the Juridical Regime of Real Estate and No
19/2004 on the Rent of State Ownership, but there are no specific laws, guidelines concerning
the details of resettlement and compensation. According to usual practice, when land acquisition
required for the project development, concerned parties under direction of local authorities
(District, Sub- District, Suco and Land and Property Unit) will negotiate and reach with an
agreements on compensation rates and total compensation amount and compensation procedure/
mechanism.
The Timor Government also does not have any regulations on the protection of power
distribution system (e.g., requirements for safety of operating distribution networks).
Therefore, the general compensation principles for the project will be followed with
requirements of the World Bank on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) and as below.
* Project Affected Persons will be provided compensation for their lost land and
other assets at full replacement values (in kind or in cash).
* In case of the temporary affected by the projects, there will be full compensated
of the net loss of income for a period of project impact.
* The affected persons without any legal title or ownership right to affected land
or assets they occupy should be compensated and provide assistance to ensure
they are not worse-off due to project.



*  All previous claims and unresolved issues related to tenure status and ownership
of land and other assets on each sub-project or components will be resolved
before land acquisition.
*  Negotiation and compensation processes should be carry out in a consultation
and participatory manners between relevant parties and with Public
Involvement.
4. Compensation Standards
The compensation standards and valuation method for different types of assets have been based
on the replacement value principle and through process of participation, negotiation and
agreement between relevant parties (affected person, project management unit, local authorities
and informal leaders such as community leaders and local priest).
4.1 . Permanent Land Acquisition
Commonly, project (gas seep site and distribution lines) will be developed in a public land,
therefore, no significant negative impacts are expected. However, land acquisition is required
for the project site in the gas seep of Aliambata. Although the location is located in public land
which is traditionally occupied by community or adat of aldeia Daralari and Beli, the
compensation of land for land or cash for land and other affected properties at replacement
costs. The compensation rate will be negotiated between farmers and project owner based on
the principle of replacement cost mentioned above.
4.2 Temporary Land Occupation
There could be income losses from temporary land occupation or disturbances during project
construction. For such losses, compensation of lost income at replacement value and cost of
restoring land into original conditions will be paid by the project owner. To minimize
temporary impacts, efforts will be made by the project owner to minimize the impacts of
temporary land occupation by timing the construction after harvesting or new planting seasons.
4.3. Structures and Assets
It was agreed that, impacts (either partially or fully) on building and other sub-structures will be
completely avoided. However, if a very special case is require, the compensation principle is to
provide compensation at replacement value, which will include cash for lost structures sufficient
to replace materials and labor to build replacement structures to an equivalent size and standard.
4.4 Economic Trees and Cash Crops
The Government of Timor-Leste does not have any regulations for protecting power
distribution networks. Tall trees (coconut trees, fruit trees, wooden trees etc.) still remained
along the existing distribution lines, thus if the same condition will be applied to this project,
very small number of trees would be cut for the project construction and maintenance. In that
case, the general compensation principle is to provide replacement value to the affected people.
The local authorities, chief of sucos, suco councils, civil society, and informal leaders have
agreed that no compensation is required for economic trees and cash crops. The local
authorities and chief of sucos and suco councils will take the responsibility to deal with the
affected people before project implementation. Please refer to appendix 2.



5. Criteria and Eligibility for Compensation
The compensation and rehabilitation will be provided for all affected persons under the following
conditions:
*  if their land area or income source will be removed due to land acquisition of the project;
*  if their houses (or residential plots) will be demolished or partly damaged due to the land
acquisition;
*  if their other properties (crops, trees, and other facilities) or access to these properties will
be removed or damaged due to land acquisition or construction of the project.
All displaced persons, regardless of their legal status, will be provided compensation and
rehabilitation based on the policies adopted by competent authorities of Timor-Leste. Lack of
legal paper of their customary rights of occupancy certificates shall not be an obstacle for
obtaining compensation for them.
6. Institutional Arrangement
A. Central government:
1. Director of Oil and Gas & Energy, Ministry of Natural Resources, Mineral and Energy
Policy, as decision maker of the project and as person that sign the Resettlement Policy
Framework for Gas Seep Harvesting Project.
2. Onshore Energy Policy, Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources, RDTL, project manager
Aliambata Gas Seep Project, person in charge of day-to-day activities of the project including
in dealing with compensation payment to the affected persons.
3. Director of Land and Property or Land and Property Unit at District Level, institution that
needed to consult if there are any disputes of land and property. This institution can involve in
the negotiation and consultation process on land acquisition and compensation.
B. Local Government:
1. District Administrator (Viqueque), decision maker at district level and person that should be
informed about the project.
2. Sub-district Administrator or OGL, Local Government Officer of Uatulari and Viqueque
sub-districts, person that should be involved in the consultation process and compensation.
His/her role is as mediator of central government and suco or village level.
3. Sub-district police chief and Community Police Officer, person in charge of security aspect
in sub-district and village level.
C. Suco/Village:
Chief of Suco and Council of Suco. They have several functions in relation to the project
compensation. Firstly, as representation of village in dealing with the government. Secondly,
as mediator of the affected people and the project. Thirdly, as witness of the process of
compensation payment.



D. Informal Leader including Church Leaders
The role of the informal leaders and the Church leaders in the village level is significant.
Therefore, their involvement in the consultation and as witness of the process of compensation
payment is needed.
7. Implementation Process
Based on current practice, the following steps will be made by the project owner and local
authorities in order to ensure the project resettlement policy framework is being complied.
Step 1-Preparation works: During project design, the staff of the project owner and local
authorities will be involved to see wherever the land acquisition impact can be avoided, mitigate
or minimize as much as possible as principles set forth above. Staff of project owner and official
of local authorities will participate in alignment survey and prepare a survey form regarding
potential impact on land acquisition.
Step 2- Awareness of compensation policy and negotiation on compensation costs: Based on a
final design of the project and its proposed implementation schedule, project owner and local
authorities identify, carry out impacts on land and other assets, introduce to the project affected
persons about the compensation principles and negotiate, reach an agreement with them on
compensation unit cost for potentially lost assets.
Step 3-Prepare an Inventory: The project as its characteristics will cause a very minor impacts
on land acquisition and thus, only an inventory is proposed. Based on the project
implementation schedule, results of affected survey, negotiation and resettlement policy, the
project owner and its consultant prepare an inventory for the project. The inventory will
include (i) the scope of impacts (name and quantities of affected assets) (b) detailed
compensation rates for affected assets, (c) consultation and participation and (c) cost and
budget.
Step 4- Compensation payment and monitoring: As soon as an inventory approved, the project
owner and local authorities pay compensation to the project affected persons with the
monitoring of independent monitors. Compensation payment (if required) has to be fully done
prior to any civil work start.
8. Consultation and participation
A draft project resettlement policy and an inventories policy will be consulted with local
authorities, affected villages and individuals. The comments and feedback from them will be
reviewed by project owner and considered in policy and inventories finalization.
9. Disclose the policy and Inventories to the Affected Persons
Two rounds of disclose will be done (i) As soon as the draft project resettlement policy
developed by the project owner and reviewed by the project team of IDA, it will be disclosed
at public places (District, Sub-District and Suco offices) accessing to and chance to give
feedback from people and any key stakeholders and; (ii) After the project resettlement policy
framework and inventories are approved/ cleared by relevant authorities of Timor- Leste, they



will be disclosed to the affected people and project local authorities . The public disclosure of
policy and inventories could also be carried out by holding public meeting, putting up notice in
the affected villages, or distributing resettlement information booklet to the affected people.
10. Reporting and Approval
The project without or with only minor impacts, only inventory needs to be prepared, which are
not required to submit to the WB for review. Instead, they could be reviewed and approved by
project owner and local authorities to ensure that resettlement policy framework is followed.
11. Compensation Funding
The cost of compensation (if required) will be included in the total project cost. The project owner
will make sure that sufficient funding available to cover compensation for the project affected
persons.
12. Grievance Redress Mechanism
The affected persons will be given many opportunities to review the survey results and
compensation policies during the process of compensation planning and implementation. In order to
resolve complaint effectively and timely, a grievance redress mechanism will be set up by local
authorities, project owner and then clearly inform to people in the project areas before the
compensation implementation.
13. Monitoring and Evaluation
If land acquisition or impact on other assets are required for the project, following the requirements
of the World Bank, during the project implementation, both internal and external resettlement
monitoring and evaluation exercises will be carried out in order to monitor resettlement
implementation and ensure all affected people are compensated adequately and their income and
livelihood are restored after resettlement and rehabilitation.
13.1 Internal Monitoring
The internal monitoring will be carried out by the project owner. Every quarter, the report will be
prepared and will provide detailed explanation on compensation progress, fund allocation, and
issues and problems as well as solutions in the implementation.
13.2 External Monitoring and Evaluation
An external resettlement monitoring and evaluation agency or individual consultant would be
selected to carry out external resettlement monitoring and evaluation. The selected institution or
consultant should have extensive experience in similar activities. The main objective is to see
whether the objective of compensation and resettlement is achieved; and to provide basic
assessment on compensation and resettlement implementation and restoration of livelihood for the
affected people. If require, Terms of Reference for independent monitoring will be developed later
by the project owner and review by the project team of IDA.



Dili, 7 October 2005
Approved by:
Ministry of Natural Resources, Mineral and Energy Policy
Amandio Gusmao
Director of Oil, Gas and Energy



Appendix 1: Statement of the Babulo Community
(Tetun Version)
SUB-DISTRITO UATU LARI
SUCO BABULO
DEKLARASAUN
Ami mak asina iha kraik nee husi Aldeia Beli no Aldeia Daralari, Suku Babulo, Sub-distritu
Uatulari, Distritu Viqueque hanesan rai nain tradisional ba rai nebe gas Aliambata iha ba. Ami
rekuinese katak rai nee hanesan propriedade estadu nian nebe uza ba interese publiku liu-liu ba
komunidade Uatulari.
Tamba nee, ami suporta programa governu no Banku Mundial nebe hakarak uza rai nee lori
halao projetu gas ba eletrisidade ba povu Uatu Lari no seluk-seluk tan.
Hanesan lia los, ami no testamunya sira mak asina deklarasaun ida nee.
Uatu Lari, 30 Setembru 2005
Reprezentante:
Lider Komunidade Babulo        Aldeia Beli           Aldeia Daralari
Joaquim Trindade        Adelino S. da Silva   Carlos Amaral da Silva
Testamunya:



Tomas Soares da Silva                             Lourenco Pedro
Oficial Governu Local, Sub-                       Manager Projetu Gas
distritu Uatulari                                 Aliambata



(English Version)
SUB-DISTRICT OF UATU LARI
SUCO BABULO
DECLARATION
We, whose signature written below, represent the communities from Aldeia Beli and Aldeia
Daralari, Suku Babulo, Sub-district of Uatulari, Viqueque District, the traditional "owners" of
the land where the Aliambata gas seep is located. We acknowledge that the land is now the
property of the state. Therefore, it should be used to benefit the public, especially for the benefit
and interest of the community of Uatulari.
We therefore support the Government and The World Bank program to use the land to develop
gas to generate electricity for the community of Uatulari and to other communities.
To prove the authenticity of this declaration, we hereby provided our signature together with our
testimony.
Uatu Lari, 30 of September 2005
Represented by:
Community Leader of Babulo       Aldeia Beli           Aldeia Daralari
Joaquim Trindade       Adelino S. Da Silva    Carlos Amaral da Silva
Witnessed by:
Tomas Soares da Silva                              Lourenco Pedro
Local Government Official,                     Project Manager of Aliambata
Sub-district of Uatulari                           Gas Seep Project



Appendix 2: The approximate compensation
The Parties involved in the consultation have agreed with the compensation in the resettlement
framework policy as presented below:
A. The land:
The acquisition of land is needed which include 1 ha of land that harvest natural gas, currently
escaping into the atmosphere from gas seeps at Aliambata site and about 0.25 m2 of land to be
acquired for each tower base. There is no compensation for using the land because it is public
land. However, the compensation in kind of land for land or an equivalent of USD 250.00 is
needed for the relocation of a local farmer that currently farming on the site.
B. The economic trees:
The economic trees include industry trees and fruit trees. No compensation is needed for
industry trees and fruit trees. The timber trees existing along distribution lines belong to the
state. In addition the fruit trees that will be cut are considered as part of community
contribution to the project.
C. Cultural Heritage
Based on the traditional practice (adat), there should be a contribution from the project for the
adat ceremony before a new project to get started. The adat ceremony is needed in order to
ensure the harmony of the people and the socio-environment.
The approximate compensation for land for the project and the cultural heritage is presented as
follows:
Cost (US
Items                          Specification             Dollar)
1. Land:
Compensation for relocation of
the farmer at the Aliambata site  Land for land or an equivalent of USD 250
project                     x 1 ha                                   250.OC
2. Cultural Heritage:
* 2 buffalos x USD 300= USD
Consumption for the people of Uatulari  600.00
and Lugasa at the adat ceremony for the  *  4 goats x USD 25= USD 100.00
project.
*  20 sack of rice x USD 15 = USD
300
*  Others are in the form of
community contribution.          1,000.0C
Total                                                      1,250.00



Appendix 3: LIST OF SOURCES FOR CONSULTATION OF RESETLEMENT
POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR GAS SEEP HARVESTING PROJECT,
ALIAMBATA
Government Institutions
1. Vicente da Costa Pinto, Director of Geology and Mineral Resources, Ministry of Natural
Resources, Mineral and Energy Policy, Dili
2. Lourenco Pedro, Project Manager, Aliambata Gas Seep Project, Ministry of Natural
Resources, Mineral and Energy Policy, Dili
3. Pedro de Sousa Xavier, Director of Land and Property, Ministry of Justice, RDTL, Dili
4. Manuel Guterres, Land and Property Unit, Viqueque
5. Manuel Madeira, Sub-district administrator
6. Thomas Soares da Silva, OGL (Local Government Officer, Uatulari)
7. Jhony, Community Police Officer, Babulo, Uatulari
NGO, Informal and Suco Leaders, Affected Persons
1. Pastor Joseph R. Tani, SVD, Priest Leader of Catholic Church, Uatulari
2. Jose da Costa Sousa, Former Sub-district Administrator, Uatulari
3. Carlos Amaral, Community Leader of Babulo
4. Miguel Amaral, Teacher and Community Leader of Babulo
5. Zeferino Menezes, Chief of Aldeia Darlari, Babulo
6. Adelina da Silva, OMT, Uatulari
7. Adelino da Silva, Community Leader, Babulo
8. Martinho da Silva, Community Leader, Babulo
9. Manuel da Silva, Community Leader, Matahoi
10. Paulo Pinto, Chief of Suco, Uma Uain Leten, Lugasa, Viqueque
11. Nicolau Fernandes, Suco Council, Uma Uain Leten, Lugasa, Viqueque
12. Abel Pinto, NGO worker
13. Paulino Amaral, Youth Leader, Afloikai
14. Manuel Soares, Agricultural School of Uatulari
15. Antonio Freitas S., Youth Leader
16. Jacinto Amaral, Community Leader
17. Martinho Elias, Youth Leader, Matahoi
18. Lucio Amaral, Youth Leader
19. Pedro Lopes, Chief of Suco, Uaitame
20. Moises C.S. Marques, Youth Leader, Uatulari
21. Jose Celestino Amaral, Suco Council, Matahoi
22. Salvador de Deus, Youth Leader, Makadiki
23. Gaspar da Costa, Community Leader, Matahoi
24. Afonso Barros, NGO Worker and Former Electric Worker of Uatulari
25. Francisco Pinto da Silva, Catholic Youth Leader and Teacher
26. Jose Apraidela, Community Leader
27. Armindo Soares, Health Officer, Uatulari
28. Anor Sihombing, CWSSP Viqueque
29. Agostinho, Youth Leader, Uatulari



30. Juvinal Trindade, Dili
31. Manuel do Rosario, Community Leader, Uatulari
32. Joao Guterres, Community Leader



