Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1930 
Project Name 
Gas Seep Harvesting project 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Oil and gas (50%);Power (50%) 
Project ID 
P092055 
Borrower(s) 
TIMOR-LESTE 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI   [X] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
November 3, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 26, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
March 20, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Country Context 
 
Timor-Leste
,
the world뭩 newest country shares the island of Timor with the Indonesian province 
of East Nusa Tenggara. It has an area of 14,652 square kilometers and a population of around 
925,000. Its post-conflict economy is still recovering from severe destruction of infrastructure 
which accompanied the Indonesian withdrawal in 1999. With a per capita GDP of under 
US$400, it is among the poorest countries in the world. 
 
Currently more than 49,500 households have access to electricity, amounting to an overall 
electrification rate of 32 percent. Nearly half of these households are located in the capital, Dili, 
or its surrounding area. Only five percent of rural households have access to electricity. Power 
generation entirely depends on imported diesel oil, resulting in one of the most costly electricity 
supplies in the world. The high cost and limited access to electric power are key constraints to 
economic growth and poverty alleviation.  
 
Sector Context 
 
The power systems in Timor-Leste were owned and operated by Indonesia뭩 national power 
corporation (PLN) up until 1999. Following the violence and destruction that preceded the 
departure of the Indonesians, much of the power system especially outside Dili was badly 
damaged. Most of PLN technical staff and management departed at this time. All data and 
consumer records were lost. Following the departure of the Indonesians, the United Nations 
Transitional Administration for East Timor (UNTAET) set up Electricidade de Timor-Leste 
(EDTL) from the remnants of the old power system with assistance of various donors such as 
Australia, Japan, Portugal and Norway. However, it was not until June, 2001 that EDTL뭩 
relationship to the East Timor Public Administration was legally defined, and not until August 
2001뾦mmediately prior to the end of the UN administration뾲hat EDTL gained the right to 
charge Dili consumers for electricity. Until then, no customers paid for electricity.  
Page  2
Until recently, The Ministry of Transport, Communications and Public Works (MTCPW) 
administered the power sector. From July 1, 2005, responsibility for the power sector was 
transferred to the Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy (MNRMEP). 
EDTL is responsible for supply of electricity to Dili and 11 district capitals of which only 
Liquica is connected to Dili. The number of households with electricity has been estimated to be 
about 26,500 in Dili, about 11,700 in the districts outside Dili and about 5,150 in the sub-district 
towns. This means that the electrification rate in Dili is about 85% while in the districts and rural 
areas this is only 18% and 5% respectively. In Dili, electricity is generated by the 19 MW 
Comoro diesel power plant. Customers in the districts outside Dili are connected to one of the 
about 60 isolated small power grids with a total generation capacity (mainly using diesel) of 
about 16 MW. In addition there is a captive diesel generation capacity with large consumers of 
about 10 MW.  
 
In Indonesian times, the electricity utility also had responsibility for power supply to sub-district 
load centers. However, under the United Nations Transitional Authority in Timor Leste 
(UNTAET) led emergency rehabilitation, it was decided to adopt a community management 
model for most of these systems. There are currently 39 sub-district systems
 
with installed 
capacities ranging from 50kW to 900 kW that were rehabilitated by donors at a cost of about 
$6.8 million. It is estimated that about 7,000 households were connected by June 2005. Under 
the community management model, Village Management Committees (VMC) were responsible 
for collecting fees from consumers to pay for operational expenses and for deciding on hours of 
operation. EDTL was expected to provide maintenance support. It is now clear that these 
arrangements do not work. Only about 5 stations are currently operating on a daily basis, 
primarily because of a lack of funds to pay for fuel. 
 
The Government has established four key principles to guide the development of the power 
sector. The first is that a sound administrative, legal, and regulatory framework for the power 
industry should be established. The second is that the vast majority of the population should have 
access to electricity. The third is that imported diesel fuel, currently the main fuel for power 
generation, should be replaced with domestic sources of energy. The fourth is that consumers 
should pay for the electricity services that they receive but that certain groups of consumers may 
require targeted subsidies.  
 
The Government attaches a particularly high priority to the replacement of imported fuels with 
cheaper domestic alternatives. Fuel imports currently cost Timor-Leste over US$ 10 million 
annually for the power sector alone. This import bill 
places a large burden on the country뭩 
limited budgetary resources. Possible domestic alternatives to imported oil are a large 
hydropower project that has been studied at feasibility level and onshore oil and gas which, 
based on preliminary prospecting appears promising. On a smaller scale, over 30 gas seeps and 
some other renewable resources have been identified. The development of the large scale 
hydropower project and the onshore oil and gas require significant financial commitments and 
the establishment of legal and regulatory arrangements, such that the development of such 
projects is not possible in the short to medium term. In the interim, harvesting of gas offers the 
prospect of a much cheaper power supply to some rural population centers especially those in 
close proximity to the gas seeps. Another factor favoring the harvesting of gas is that the major 
Page  3
component of the gas seeping into the atmosphere is methane, a greenhouse gas (GHG) that is 
far more damaging than CO2. If this gas could be used for power generation, it would 
substantially reduce Timor-
Leste뭩 GHG emissions.  
 
Government Initiatives in the Electricity Sector 
 
Significant progress has been made in the power sector since the independence of Timor-Leste. 
In addition to the significant rehabilitation effort discussed above, the government has been able 
to:  
 

proceed with legal and regulatory development; 

develop a Power Sector Development Plan (PSDP) covering a 20 year period; 

develop a Sector Investment Plan (SIP) outlining priority investments for the short and 
medium term;  

employ a management contractor to operate EDTL; and 

improve collections for electricity bills through the installation of 24,000 pre-payment 
meters among EDTL customers in Dili (total customers: 26,500). The Norway 
Government will contribute an additional 11,000 pre-payment meters that will be 
distributed in Dili and other districts. 
 
In its Sector Investment Program for Power Sector (SIPPS) published in April 2005, the GoTL 
explicitly listed the proposed Gas Seep Harvesting Project as one of the country뭩 priority 
investments in power sector in the medium term. Also, there is substantial scope for replicating 
this demonstration project given that there are at least 30 gas seeps spread throughout the 
country. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The development objective of the proposed project is demonstration of the technical and 
economic viability of harvesting gas seeps to produce efficient, reliable, and affordable power 
for isolated rural communities in south eastern part of Timor-Leste, while at the same time 
reducing GHG emissions. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
There is a strong rationale for Bank involvement based on its role in the development of the 
power sector and the priorities for its assistance to Timor-Leste. Since independence, the Bank 
has stepped up its assistance to the development of the power sector. The Bank뭩 FY06-08 
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) includes the delivery of sustainable key services for growth 
and development as one of its three pillars for its lending and advisory programs in the country. 
Recognizing the key role of access to energy services for growth and poverty reduction, and 
taking into account the paucity of development partners in the energy sector, the CAS proposes 
the project as part of the Bank뭩 assistance program in Timor-Leste뭩 energy sector. 
 
In addition, the Bank has extensive experience in providing rural electricity services using 
indigenous least cost energy resources including renewable energy. In particular, the Bank is 
Page  4
very strong in assisting host countries in establishing innovative and sustainable business models 
to run small rural power systems, which is extremely important and relevant to the situation in 
Timor-Leste.  
 
4. Description 
 
This project will be financed by a grant from the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) administered 
by IDA and it is proposed to be co-financed by a Medium Sized Project (MSP) GEF grant.  
 
Expected outcomes
 
The proposed project would have three major outcomes. One would be the successful completion 
of the demonstration project at the Aliambata site and the resolution of major concerns and 
uncertainties regarding the sustainability of such an operation. The second would be detailed data 
on the viability of the five other gas sites and their potential for power generation and other uses. 
The third would be the operation of a viable institutional and financial model for sustainable 
operation of the small scaled gas-fired power systems, including the use of prepaid meters to 
reduce the financial risk. The combined outcomes would form a pre-investment package that 
would reduce the perceived risks that would likely prevent public or private investment in the 
development of the gas seeps for energy use. 
Key performance indicators
 

Electricity generated from gas seep harvesting in Aliambata gas site (kWh); 

The
 
number of households newly connected to the power system using the gas from the 
Aliambata gas site and the number of households with improved electricity services as a 
result of connecting the Aliambata production plan to the existing Uatulari distribution 
system;  

Revenue collection rate; 

The net amount of GHG reduction resulting from the use of gas seeps for power 
generation and gas flaring (tones CO
2
equivalent); and
 

The resources identified for the five other gas sites and a survey of potential markets.  
 
Project components:
 
The project, two components: 
 
Component A
:
A
demonstration project in Aliambata
 
to demonstrate the technical 
feasibility and economic viability of gas seep for power generation in Timor-Leste
.
This component will be implemented by EDTL. Its major activities would include: 
 

Construction of a dual-fuel power plant at Aliambata, using the gas from the seeps and 
diesel oil for power generation. The capacity of the proposed power plant will be 3x125 
kW. One of the generators would be new and the other two would be existing units 
operating on diesel oil and the proposed project would modify them to operate on 
Page  5
indigenous gas. All three generators would have engines that would automatically adjust 
the gas/diesel oil ratio, which would vary depending on gas quality, quantity available 
and local ambient conditions. However about 70-80 percent the fuel would come from 
gas. The 20-30 percent would come from diesel oil only to ensure the capability of the 
system to meet peak demand. 
 

Building of 20 kV distribution lines to connect the proposed power plant to the existing 
EDTL systems at Uatolari and Uatocarabau and to new consumers in the rural 
communities near the proposed power plant, including Aliambata, Babula and Borolalo. 
This connection would increase the availability of power supply at Uatulari and 
Uatucarabao from 6 hours to 24 hours per day. Overall, the gas-based power generators at 
Aliambata would supply electricity to 1,000 households currently connected to the power 
system and about 2,000 new households as well as some small commercial customers. 
 

Testing of a system of revenue collection using cost effective prepaid metering system to 
ensure the financial sustainability of the project. The system would apply the standard 
tariffs that EDTL charges and, as in the case of the Dili system, consumers would receive 
prepaid meters, free of charge. New customers also would pay EDTL standard 
connection charges, less the cost of the prepayment meter. 
 
The total cost of this component is US$ 1.45 million.
 
Component B:
 
National gas seep survey study and gas sampling and testing program
:
This 
component will be implemented by the Oil, Gas and Energy Directorate (OGED) of the Ministry 
of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy (MNRMEP) and it would include a national 
gas seep survey study and a gas sampling, testing program to test around five major gas seeps to 
be identified during the national survey, and a Feasibility Study for one or two sites. The total 
cost of this component is US$ 0.40 million.
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER .00 
SPECIAL FINANCING 
.85 
GEF .60 
 Total 
1.45 
Note: final financing plan needs to be confirmed by GEF and the Government of Timor Leste. 
 
6. Implementation 
 
On behalf of the GoTL, the Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy 
(MNRMEP) will be the executing agency for the proposed project. MNRMEP has formally 
designated EDTL as the implementing agency of Component 1 and the Oil, Gas and Energy 
Directorate (OGED) as the implementing agency of Components 2 and 3. Both EDTL and 
OGED fall under the MNRMEP.  
 
Page  6
To implement the project, a special account under the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOPF) 
will be established (a separate special count will be established for the GEF grant if necessary). 
Initially, an agreed amount will be transferred to the special account. Additional transfers can be 
requested by MOPF when the special account drops below an agreed level. EDTL and OGED 
can request MOPF to make payments directly to contractors for supply of goods, works and 
services. EDTL and OGED will keep appropriate records and will make sure that procurement 
and payment are in accordance with the World Bank rules and procedures. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Supporting OGED and EDTL to implement the project instead of establishing a new project 
entity would ensure the sustainability of the project. The training of district personnel in the 
operation and maintenance of the gas-based power facilities would promote the sustainability on 
the technical side and the use of prepaid meters and appropriate institutional arrangements would 
help ensure the financial viability of the power systems.
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The proposed project will be successful if consumers actually pay for the delivered electricity. 
Because existing consumers used to pay very little under the Indonesian administration and 
nothing under UNTAET, payment of the full charges for electricity will constitute a major 
change. From other rural electrification projects in the region, and in the pre-payment meter 
installation program in Dili, it has been learned that such change is only possible with active 
involvement of the affected communities from the start. Therefore, extensive end-user awareness 
creation and consultation was carried out during preparation. This will be continued during 
implementation. 
 
Another lesson learned from rural electrification projects in the region is that consumption based 
payments instead of a flat rate irrespective of consumption will increase awareness on the cost of 
electricity and encourage efficient use of electricity. A pre-paid system was selected to improve 
and simplify collection of fees. This is possible because suitable a low cost pre-paid meters are 
available on the market. These meters need to be installed at all connected households and a rural 
infrastructure for pre-payment needs to be established.  
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [Y] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[N] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[N] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[N] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[N] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[N] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[N] 
Page  7
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[N] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[N] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[N] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
o
Report on Gas Seep Sampling Study, SKM, 20 September, 2005 
o
Technical Study on Use of Natural Gas Seep, SKM, 26 September, 2005 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Mr. Leiping Wang 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
USA 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
