Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  02/09/2007 
Report No.:  AC1979
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Timor-Leste 
Project ID:  P092055 
Project Name:  Gas Seep Harvesting project 
Task Team Leader:  Leiping Wang 
Estimated Appraisal Date: December 20, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: March 20, 2007 
Managing Unit:  EASTE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Oil and gas (50%);Power (50%) 
Theme:  Rural services and infrastructure (P);Climate change (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
1.00 
 Special 
Financing 
0.85 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
1.85 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The development objective of the proposed project is to demonstrate the technical and 
economic viability of harvesting seep gas from natural gas seeps to produce efficient, 
reliable, and affordable power for isolated rural communities in the south eastern part of 
Timor-Leste, while at the same time reducing GHG emissions.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project comprises two components:  
 
Component A: Investment Component  
 
1) Construction of a dual-fuel power plant at Aliambata, using the gas from the seeps 
and diesel oil for power generation. The capacity of the proposed power plant will be 
3x150 kW. One of the generators would be a new gas generator set. The other two will be 
duel fuelled engine/generator sets each rated at about 150 kW. If there is a substantial 
cost saving, one of the dual fuel engine/generator set will be an existing unit operating on 
diesel oil and the proposed project would modify it to operate on both indigenous gas and 
Page  2
diesel. The dual fuel engine/generator set will have engines that would automatically 
adjust the gas/diesel oil ratio, which would vary depending on gas quality, quantity 
available and local ambient conditions. However about 70-80 percent the fuel would 
come from gas. The 20-30 percent would come from diesel oil only to ensure the 
capability of the system to meet peak demand.  
 
2) Building of 20 kV distribution lines to connect the proposed power plant to the 
existing EDTL systems at Uatolari and Uatocarabau and to new consumers in the rural 
communities near the proposed power plant, including Aliambata, Babula and Borolalo. 
This connection would increase the availability of power supply at Uatulari and 
Uatucarabao from 6 hours to 24 hours per day. Overall, the gas-based power generators at 
Aliambata would supply electricity to approximately 1,000 households currently 
connected to the power system and about 2,000 new households as well as some small 
commercial customers.  
 
3) Testing of a system of revenue collection using cost effective prepaid metering 
system to ensure the financial sustainability of the project. The system would apply the 
standard tariffs that EDTL charges and, as in the case of the Dili system, consumers 
would receive prepaid meters, free of charge. New customers also would pay EDTL 
standard connection charges, less the cost of the prepayment meter. A community 
awareness creation and consultation campaign will be undertaken during the 
implementation of the project based the public consultation carried out during the project 
preparation to ensure the proposed system can be implemented properly.  
 
Component B: Technical Assistance  
 
To manage the implementation of the project, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will 
be established within the Water and Electricity Policy Directorate of the Ministry of 
Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy (see Annex 6). The PMU will be staffed 
by one full time expatriate Project Manager. The Project Manager will be funded from 
the Project Management and Support budget. Additional activities under this component 
are: stimulation of productive use of electricity, continued socialization, training, end of 
project survey and incremental operating expenses.  
 
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 1.847 million, including contingencies 
and value added tax (VAT), with TFET financing of US$ 0.85 million and government 
budget financing of US$ 0.997 million.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The natural gas seeps are located approximately 1 km from the village of Aliambata in 
the east part of Timor-Leste, about 100 m from the main coastal road, on elevated land at 
the end of a short track. The terrain is mountainous covered with bushes. There is no one 
living at the site, with the nearest village being Aliambata. The land is owned by the local 
government. The social assessment and interviews confirmed the absence of any 
Page  3
indigenous peoples/cultural minority at the gas seep site and those traversed by the 
distribution line.  
 
The ground surrounding the gas seeps is bare as a result of gas emissions. Secondary 
forest vegetation consisting mostly of teak tree (Tectona sp.) and Leucaena sp.lies within 
10-15 m upslope of the seeps. The seep area lies on sloping terrain, directly adjacent to an 
area of flat land downslope where vegetation is dominated by saplings of Leucaena sp. 
No fauna were seen during the recent site visit although domestic buffalo are known to be 
grazed in the area.  
 
The low voltage (20 kV) distribution lines, around 4 km, to connect the proposed power 
plant to the 20 kV distribution system operated by EdTL to meet the power demands of 
the communities at Uatolari and to new consumers in the communities near the proposed 
power plant, including Alimbata, Babula and Borolalo, will follow existing roads.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Josefo Tuyor (EASRE) 
Ms Victoria Florian S. Lazaro (EASSO) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The scale of the project is very small, hence it is not expected to have any significant and 
irreversible negative impacts on environment, natural habitats and forests. The gas 
collection system and the small dual fuel power station will be designed, constructed and 
operated according to international standards, while the electrical distribution line will 
largely follow existing roads to reduce the intrusion onto private property. There are also 
no indigenous peoples/cultural minorities present both at the gas seep site and those 
traversed by the distribution line.  
 
There may be minor and temporary negative environmental impacts during construction 
such as increase in traffic at the project area, temporary deterioration of air and water 
Page  4
quality and removal of some vegetation consisting mostly of saplings of Leucaena sp. at 
the site of the power station and in some sections of the distribution line.  
 
On one hand, since the project will principally involve the collection of natural gas for 
electrical power generation, it will provide important positive environmental benefits. 
Most of the targeted consumers are currently using ?dirty? fossil fuels for their lighting, 
such as kerosene. By using electricity for lighting, the indoor air quality will improve. 
Further the project will have positive global environmental impact by utilizing seep gas 
for electricity generating. It avoids methane being released into the atmosphere (methane 
is a strong greenhouse gas) and it replaces electricity generated from diesel.  
 
2.  Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area:  
 
Long term impacts of the project are expected to be positive such as increased 
electrification of rural areas and communities, displacement on the usage of ?dirty? fossil 
fuels used for home lighting and reduce emission of methane, a greenhouse gas, into the 
atmosphere.  
 
3.  Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts.  
 
To avoid adverse impact on existing secondary forests upslope of the gas seeps, the gas 
collection and power plant facility will be constructed in a flat area downslope of the 
seeps, which is sparsely vegetated by saplings of Leucaena sp. and some shrubs. The 
distribution line will follow existing roads to minimize, if not avoid, intrusion into private 
properties.  
 
4.  Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.  
 
An environmental management plan (EMP) to address minor impacts from civil works 
activities and a site health and safety plan have been prepared and submitted by the 
Government of Timor Leste to the Bank, which the later found acceptable. A land 
acquisition and resettlement policy framework (LARPF) has also been prepared and 
submitted and found acceptable by the Bank despite the fact that the project will not 
involve any resettlement.  
 
The Project Management Unit (PMU) that will be established under the new National 
Directorate for Water and Electricity Policy (NDWEP) will ensure the implementation of 
the EMP by the contractors during construction. The NDWEP will create a position for 
Research Officer for Environment and Sustainable Development, whose tasks should 
include compliance monitoring of the contractor to the EMP and health and site safety 
plan. The EdTL, who will operate the completed project, will implement routine 
environmental measures during maintenance works.  
 
Page  5
The environmental management capability of the country is low. Its environmental laws 
and regulations, including pollution and environmental impact assessment (EIA) laws 
have yet to be approved. Currently, the National Directorate for Environmental Services 
(NDES) under the Office of the Prime Minister is monitoring and providing 
recommendations to activities that may have negative environmental impacts under the 
Indonesia environmental laws and regulations. At local level, the NDES has focus points 
in five districts and there are plans to expand further. In addition, there are proposals 
contained in the 2006 Sector Investment Program of Timor Leste to strengthen the 
natural resources and environment sector of the country through building the capacity of 
the NDES and equipping them with the urgently needed equipment and facilities in 
preparation of the soon to be promulgated EIA and pollution control laws. This is 
something that the Bank and other donors should support to ensure that the rapid 
restoration and development of Timor Leste is balanced with environmental protection 
and management.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The stakeholders of the project includes the central government: Director of Oil and Gas 
and Energy, Director of Onshore Energy Policy and the EDTL under the Ministry of  
Natural Resources, Mineral and Energy Policy, the SKM, the consultant hired by the 
government for Gas Seep Sampling and Use of Natural Gas studies, the contractors, the 
PMU under National Directorate for Water and Electricity Policy (NDWEP) who will 
monitor compliance of contractors to the EMP and the site Health and Safety Plan during 
construction. and the National Directorate for Environmental Services (NDES); the local 
government which consists of the District Administrator of Viqueque and its sub district 
Administrator of Uatolari and its sub district Police Chief; the potential beneficiaries as 
represented by their respective chiefs of 6 Suco councils, their informal leaders including 
Church leaders; and appropriate Non Government Organizations now represented by 
TIDS . Mechanisms for consultations and information dissemination shall consist of 
conduct of social assessment activities, public and informal meetings and discussions 
including workshops distribution of project information materials and posting of issues 
and agreements in public places, and available websites.   
 
Page  6
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
12/12/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/18/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/09/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  7
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Leiping Wang 
12/12/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Josefo Tuyor 
12/12/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Victoria Florian S. Lazaro 
12/12/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Glenn S. Morgan 
01/09/2007 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Junhui Wu 
01/04/2007 
Comments:  Implementing Agency:  Directorate of Energy and Mineral Resources, Ministry of 
Development and Environment, Fomento Bldg., 1st Floor, Dili, Timor-Leste 
Tel/Fax: (670) 331-7143 
