Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC1978 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/08/2006 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Timor-Leste 
Project ID: P092055 
Project Name: Gas Seep Harvesting project 
Task Team Leader: Leiping Wang 
Estimated Appraisal Date: December 20, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: March 20, 2007 
Managing Unit: EASEG 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Oil and gas (50%);Power (50%) 
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P);Climate change (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
1.00 
 SPECIAL 
FINANCING 
0.85 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
1.85 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The development objective of the proposed project is to demonstrate the technical and economic 
viability of harvesting seep gas from natural gas seeps to produce efficient, reliable, and 
affordable power for isolated rural communities in the south eastern part of Timor-Leste, while 
at the same time reducing GHG emissions.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The project comprises two components:  
 
Component A: Investment Component.  
 
1) Construction of a dual-fuel power plant at Aliambata, using the gas from the seeps and diesel 
oil for power generation. The capacity of the proposed power plant will be 3x150 kW. One of the 
generators would be a new gas generator set. The other two will be duel fuelled engine/generator 
sets each rated at about 150 kW. If there is a substantial cost saving, one of the dual fuel 
Page  2
engine/generator set will be an existing unit operating on diesel oil and the proposed project 
would modify it to operate on both indigenous gas and diesel. The dual fuel engine/generator set 
will have engines that would automatically adjust the gas/diesel oil ratio, which would vary 
depending on gas quality, quantity available and local ambient conditions. However about 70-80 
percent the fuel would come from gas. The 20-30 percent would come from diesel oil only to 
ensure the capability of the system to meet peak demand.  
 
2) Building of 20 kV distribution lines to connect the proposed power plant to the existing 
EDTL systems at Uatolari and Uatocarabau and to new consumers in the rural communities near 
the proposed power plant, including Aliambata, Babula and Borolalo. This connection would 
increase the availability of power supply at Uatulari and Uatucarabao from 6 hours to 24 hours 
per day. Overall, the gas-based power generators at Aliambata would supply electricity to 
approximately 1,000 households currently connected to the power system and about 2,000 new 
households as well as some small commercial customers.  
 
3) Testing of a system of revenue collection using cost effective prepaid metering system to 
ensure the financial sustainability of the project. The system would apply the standard tariffs that 
EDTL charges and, as in the case of the Dili system, consumers would receive prepaid meters, 
free of charge. New customers also would pay EDTL standard connection charges, less the cost 
of the prepayment meter. A community awareness creation and consultation campaign will be 
undertaken during the implementation of the project based the public consultation carried out 
during the project preparation to ensure the proposed system can be implemented properly.  
 
Component B: Technical Assistance.  
 
To manage the implementation of the project, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be 
established within the Water and Electricity Policy Directorate of the Ministry of Natural 
Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy (see Annex 6). The PMU will be staffed by one full time 
expatriate Project Manager. The Project Manager will be funded from the Project Management 
and Support budget. Additional activities under this component are: stimulation of productive 
use of electricity, continued socialization, training, end of project survey and incremental 
operating expenses.  
 
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 1.847 million, including contingencies and 
value added tax (VAT), with TFET financing of US$ 0.85 million and government budget 
financing of US$ 0.997 million.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The demonstration small power plant is located approximately 1 km from the village of 
Aliambata in the south east part of Timor-Leste. The project site is approximately 100 meters 
from the main coastal road, on elevated land at the end of a short track. There is no one living at 
the site, with the nearest village being Aliambata. The land is owned by the local government. 
The ground surrounding the immediate site is bare as a result of past gas emissions. Natural 
forest vegetation lies within 10-15 m of the seeps on all sides. The seep area lies on sloping 
terrain, directly adjacent to an area of flat land downslope. No fauna were seen during the recent 
site visit although domestic buffalo are known to be grazed in the area.  
Page  3
Low voltage (20 kV and below) distribution lines will be built to connect the proposed power 
plant to the 20 kV distribution system operated by EdTL to meet the power demands of the 
communities at Uatolari and to new consumers in the communities near the proposed power 
plant, including Alimbata, Babula and Borolalo. Electrical distribution line will largely follow 
existing roads to reduce the intrusion onto private property   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
The Borrower's capacity for implementing World Bank safeguard policies is deemed to be 
extremely low to non-existent. Institutional capacity will be carefully examined during project 
preparation and appropriate institutional arrangements as well as a program of institutional 
strengthening will be developed during project preparation.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Josefo Tuyor (EASEN) 
Ms Victoria Florian S. Lazaro (EASSD) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
The Project would be financing construction of gas collection facility and dual-fuel power 
plant and installation of low voltage (20 kV and below) distribution lines (around 4 km) to 
connect the proposed power plant to the 20 kV distribution system to meet the power demands of 
the communities. The key environmental impacts of the Project, which are attributable to the 
construction of the gas collection, power generation and distribution facilities, are assessed to be 
minor and localized since earthworks will be largely done manually, will only take a few weeks 
to complete and will be confined within the already clear area adjacent to the gas seeps while the 
distribution line will basically follow the existing road network. The likelihood of explosion is 
remote since the gas collection device and flare are designed with minimum oxygen ingress to 
limit the risk of an explosive mixture. In case of explosion, the collection device will have an 
explosion vent in the cover to minimize risk to site personnel. The flare will incorporate suitable 
systems and design features to prevent flashback and maintain ignition of the flame so that the 
risk to people and the environment will be minimal. On the other hand, the risk to communities, 
in a remote event of explosion, is very low since the nearest village is 1 km away from the site 
and the facility is located behind a security fence. Noise is expected to be generated from engine 
generators but this will be addressed by housing the equipment in sound-attenuating enclosures.  
 
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and a Site Health and Safety Plan have been 
developed to address construction impacts and occupational health and safety issues, 
respectively.  
 
An inventory of other identified gas seeps (approximately 30 seeps) will be developed. The 
inventory will include information about the site characterization (e.g. general topography, 
proximity to natural habitats, water sources, forests, and human settlements).   
Page  4
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 
X
The presence or absence of IPs in the Project area shall be determined in the course of the 
preparation and appropriate instrument in compliance to OP 4.10 shall be formulated.   
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  12/11/2006 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
All safeguard-related studies have been completed.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Leiping Wang 
10/17/2006 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Glenn S. Morgan 
12/07/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Junhui Wu 
12/07/2006 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
