                                           Document of
                                       The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                          Report No: 38123-TP


                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ON A

                               PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE

                         TRUST FTJND FOR TIMOR-LESTE (TFET)

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$0.85 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                       DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF TIMOR-LESTE

                                             FOR A

                             GAS SEEP HARVESTINGPROJECT

                                        February28,2007




Transport,Energy & Mining Sector Unit
SustainableDevelopment Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

             CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS




                    FISCAL YEAR
                January 1    - December31

        ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
ASTAE   Asia Sustainableand AlternativeEnergy
CAS     Country AssistanceStrategy
CEM     Macau Electricity Company(Companhia de Electricidade de Macau
EDTL    Timor-Leste Electricity (Electricidadede Timor-Leste)
EIA     EnvironmentalImpact Assessment
E m     Economic Internal Rate of Return
E m     Environmental Management Plan
ESDP    Energy Services DeliveryProject
E S W   EnergySector Management AssistanceProgram
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GHG     GreenhouseGas
GW      Giga watts
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
kV      Kilo volts
kW      Kilowatts
MNRMEP  Ministryof Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy
MOFP    Ministry of Planning and Finance
MTCPW   Ministryof Transport, Communications and Public Works
MW      Mega watts
MCC     MilleniumChallenge Corporation
NDCS    National Directorateof CorporateServices
NDES    National Directoratefor EnvironmentalServices
NDGM    NationalDirectorateof Geology, and Mineral Resources
NDPG    National Directoratefor Petroleum and Gas
NDPGEP  National Directoratefor Petroleum, Gas and Mineral Policy
NDWS    National Directoratefor Water and Sanitation
NDWEP   NationalDirectoratefor Water and ElectricityPolicy
NPV     Net present value
PLN     Power Corporation
PPIAF   Public-PrivateInfi-astructureAdvisoryFacility

PSDP        Power Sector Development Plan
SBD         Standard Bidding Documents
SIP         Sector Investment Plan
SIPPS       Sector Investment Program for Power Sector
SOEs        Statements of Expenditures
TFET        Trust Fund for Timor-Leste
TIDS        Timor Institute of Development Studies
UNTAET       United Nations Transitional Administrationfor East Timor
VAT         Value Added Tax




               Vice President:       James W. Adams
      Country ManagerDirector:       Nigel Roberts
              Sector Manager:        Junhui Wu
            Task Team Leader:        Leiping Wang


                                                      TIMOR-LESTE

                                         Gas Seep Harvesting project

                                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                              Page

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................1
1.    Countryand sector issues.................................................................................................... 1

2.   Rationale for Bank involvement                   ......................................................................................... 3

3.    Higher level objectives to which the project contributes.................................................... 3

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION                          ............................................................................................3
1.    Lending instrument........................................................................................................... 3

2.    Project developmentobjective and key indicators............................................................. 3
3.    Project components.........................................................................................................4
4.    Lessons learned and reflected in the project design.......................................................... 5
5.    Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.............................................................. 5        ...




C. IMPLEMENTATION                     ..........................................................................................................6
1.    Partnership arrangements(if applicable) -N/A .................................................................. 6

2.   Institutional and implementationarrangements.................................................................. 6

3.   Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results.................................................................. 7
                 . .
4.    Sustainability.......................................................................................................................     7

5.    Critical risks and possible controversial aspects............................................................... 7
6.    Grant conditions and covenants..........................................................................................8

   APPRAISAL SUMMARY                        ...................................................................................................9
      Economic and financial analyses...................................................................................... 9
      Technical.......................................................................................................................          9
      Fiduciary .........................................................................................................        ...............9
      Social................................................................................................................................. 10
      Environment.......................................................................................................................11
      Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................          12
     Policy Exceptions and Readiness...................................................................................... 12

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background                                     .......................................................13

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                      ................18

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring               ....................................................................... 20

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description     .....................................................................................22

Annex 5: Project Costs and Financing Plan          ............................................................................25

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements           ...............................................................................27

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                                 ....................................30

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements         .....................................................................................33

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis           ...........................................................................37

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues   ..........................................................................................39

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision              ....................................................................  54

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File        ................................................................................ 55

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits          .............................................................................56

Annex 14: Country at a Glance  ...............................................................................................57

Annex 15: Map IBRD 35220   ......................................................................................................59

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

Country Context

Timor-Leste, the world's newest country shares the island of Timor with the Indonesian
province of East Nusa Tenggara. It has an area of 14,652 square kilometers and a
population of around 925,000. Its post-conflict economy is still recovering from severe
destruction of infrastructure which accompanied the Indonesian withdrawal in 1999. With
a per capita GDP of under US$400, it is among the poorest countries in the world.

Currently more than 43,500 households have access to electricity, amounting to an overall
electrification rate of around 22 percent. Nearly half of these households are located in the
capital, Dili, or its surrounding area. Only five percent of rural households have access to
electricity. Power generation entirely depends on imported diesel oil, resulting in one of
the most costly electricity supplies in the world. The high cost and limited access to
electric power are key constraintsto economic growth and poverty alleviation.

Sector Context

The power systems in Timor-Leste were owned and operated by Indonesia" national
power corporation (PLN) up' until 1999. Following the violence and destruction that
preceded the departure of the Indonesians, much of the power system especially outside
Dili was badly damaged. Most of PLN technical staff and management departed at this
time.    All data and consumer records were lost.          Following the depame of the
Indonesians, the United Nations Transitional Administration for East Timor (LJNTAET)
set up Electricidade de Timor-Leste (EDTL) from the remnants of the old power system
with assistance of various donors such as Australia, Japan, Portugal and Norway.
However, it was not until June, 2001 that EDTL's relationship to the East Timor Public
Administration was legally defined, and not until August 2001-immediately prior to the
end of the UN administration-that EDTL gained the right to charge Dili consumers for
electricity. Until then, no customerspaid for electricity.

Initially, the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Public Works (MTCPW)
administered the power sector. From July 1, 2005, responsibilityfor the power sector was
transferred to the Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy (MNRMEP).
Under the MNRMEP, EDTL is responsible for supply of electricity to Dili and 11 district
capitals of which only Liquica is connected to Dili. However, EDTL is still not a separate
legal entity from MNRMEP and is currently under a transitional management contract.
The GoTL is recruiting a new management contractor for EDTL. It is exp'ected that
recruitment will be completed in 2007.
                                                                                  I




The number of households with electricity has been estimated to be about 26,500 in Dili,
about 11,700 in the districts outside Dili and about 5,150 in the sub-district towns. This
means that the electrification rate in Dili is about 85% while in the district capitals and

rural areas this is only 18% and 5% respectively. In Dili, electricity is generated by the 19
MW Comoro diesel power plant. Customers in the districts and rural areas outside Dili are
connected to one of the about 60 isolated small power grids with a total generation
capacity (mainly using diesel) of about 16 MW. In addition there is a captive diesel
generation capacity with large consumers of about 10 MW.

The Governmenthas established four key principles to guide the developmentof the power
sector. The first is that a sound administrative, legal, and regulatory framework for the
power industry should be established. The second is that the vast majority of the
population should have access to electricity.       The third is that imported diesel fuel,
currently the main fuel for power generation, should be replaced with domestic sources of
energy. The fourth is that consumers should pay for the electricity services that they
receive but that certain groups of consumers may require targeted subsidies.

The Government attaches a particularly high priority to the replacement of imported fuels
with cheaper domestic alternatives. Fuel imports currently cost Timor-Leste over US$10
million annually for the power sector alone. This import bill places a large burden on the
country's budgetary resources. Possible domestic alternatives to imported oil are a large
hydropower project that has been studied at feasibilitylevel and onshore oil and gas whch,
based on preliminary prospecting appears promising. On a smaller scale, over 30 gas
seeps and some other renewable resources have been identified. The development of the
large scale hydropower project and the onshore oil and gas require significant financial
commitments and the establishment of legal and regulatory arrangements, such that the
development of such projects is not possible in the short to medium term. In the interim,
harvesting of gas offers the prospect of a much cheaper power supply to some rural
population centers especially those in close proximity to the gas seeps. Another factor
favoring the harvesting of gas is that the major component of the gas seeping into the
atmosphere is methane, a greenhouse gas (GHG) that is far more damaging than C02. If
this gas could be used for power generation, it would substantially reduce Tirnor-Leste's
GHG emissions.

Government Initiatives in the Electricity Sector

Significant progress has been made in the power sector since the independence of Timor-
Leste. In addition to the significant rehabilitation effort discussed above, the government
has been able to:

       proceed with legaland regulatorydevelopment;
       develop a Power Sector Development Plan (PSDP) covering a 20 year period;
       develop a Sector Investment Plan (SIP) outlining priority investments for the short
       and medium term;
       employ a managementcontractor to operate EDTL;
       improve collections for electricity bills through the installation of 24,000 pre-
       payment meters among EDTL customers in Dili (total customers: 26,500). The
       Norway Government will contribute an additional 11,000 pre-payment meters that
       will be distributedin Dili and other districts;

        Complete a Rural Electrification Masterplan providing the basis for Timor-Leste's
        application for MCC funding; and
        Complete a study on "Strengthening the Institutional Framework and Capacities in
        the Power Sector".

In its Sector Investment Program for Power Sector (SIPPS) published in April 2005, the
GoTL explicitly listed the proposed Gas Seep Harvesting Project as one of the country's
priority investments in power sector in the medium term. Also, there is subst&tial scope
for replicating this demonstration project given that there are at least 30 gas seeps spread
throughout the country. A more detailed study of these gas seeps aimed at establishing gas
compositionand quantities is currently underwayfinanced by ASTAE.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

There is a strong rationale for Bank involvement based on its role in the development of
the power sector and the priorities for its assistance to Timor-Leste. Since independence,
the Bank has stepped up its assistance to the developmentof the power sector. The Bank's
FY06-08 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) includes the delivery of sustainable key
services for growth and development as one of its three pillars for its lending and advisory
programs in the country. Recognizing the key role of access to energy services for growth
and poverty reduction, and taking into account the paucity of development partners in the
energy sector, the CAS proposes this project as part of the Bank's assistance program in
Timor-Leste's energy sector. In addition, the Bank has estensive experience in providing
rural electricityservices using indigenous least cost energy resources.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The Bank's FY06-08 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved by the Board on July
19, 2005 (Report No. 32700-TL), focuses on assistance to the Government of Timor-Leste
(GoTL) to shift the economic and social development focus from post-conflict assistance
to sustainable growth and poverty reduction. The objectives of the proposed project are
fully consistent with, and give substantial support to deliveringsustainableservices, one of
the three strategic pillars of the CAS.

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lending instrument

The project will be financed by a recipient executed trust fund from the IDA administered
TFET and the State Budget.

2. Project developmentobjective and key indicators

The development objective of the proposed project is to demonstrate the technical and
economic viability of harvesting seep gas from natural gas seeps to produce reliable and
affordable power for isolated rural communitiesin the south eastern part of Timor-Leste.

Expected outcomes

The expected outcomes of the proposed project would be the successful completion of the
demonstration project at the Aliambata gas seep site and supply of relatively reliable and
affordable electricity to rural communities near the project site.

Key performance indicators

       Successfulcommissioning and operation of the demonstrationpower plant;
       Reduction of fuel cost by at least 50% comparing with diesel based power
       generation with similar technology; and
       Improvements of reliabilityof electricitysupply.

3. Project components

The project, described in detail in Annex 4, comprises two components:

Component A:Investment Component

      Construction of a dual-fuel power plant at Aliarnbata, using the gas fiom the seeps
      and diesel oil for power generation. The capacity of the proposed power plant will
      be 3x150 kW. One of the generators would be a gas generator set. The other two
      will be duel fuelled enginelgenerator sets each rated at about 150 kW. The dual fuel
      enginelgenerator sets will have engines that would automatically adjust the
      gasldiesel oil ratio, which would vary depending on gas quality, quantity available
      and local ambient conditions. However about 70-80 percent the fuel would come
      from gas. The 20-30 percent would come fiom diesel oil only to ensure the
      capability of the system to meet peak demand.
      Building of 20 kV distribution lines to connect the proposed power plant to the
      existing EDTL systems at Uatolari and Uatocarabau and to new consumers in the
      rural communities near the proposed power plant, including Aliambata, Babula and
      Borolalo. This connection would increase the availability of power supply at
      Uatulari and Uatucarabaofiom 6 hours to 24 hours per day. Overall, the gas-based
      power generators at Aliambata would supply electricity to approximately 1,000
      households currently connected to the power system and about 2,000 new
      households as well as some small commercial customers.
      Introducing a system of revenue collection using cost effective metering system,
      such as prepaid metering system, to ensure the financial sustainability of the
      project. The system would apply the standard tariffs that EDTL charges and, as in
      the case of the Dili system, consumers would receive meters, free of charge. New
      customers also would pay EDTL standard connection charges, less the cost of the
      prepayment meter. A community awareness creation and consultation campaign
      will be undertaken during the implementation of the project based the public
      consultation carried out during the project preparation to ensure the proposed
      system can be implemented properly.

Component B: Technical Assistance

        To manage the implementation of the project, a Project Manager will be recruited
        under the National Directorate for Water and Electricity Policy (NDWEP) of the
        Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy (MNRMEP) (see
        Annex 6). The Project Manager will be funded by the project. Additional activities
        under this component are: continued socialization, training, incremental operating
        expenses and audit.

The total cost of the project is estimated at US$1.847 million, including contingencies and
value added tax (VAT), with TFET financing of US$0.85 million and State Budget
financing of US$0.997 million. The total cost of the project is provided in Annex 5.

4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

The proposed project will be successful if consumers actually pay for the delivered
electricity. Because existing consumers used to pay very little under the Indonesian
administration and nothing under UNTAET, payment of the full charges for electricity will .
constitute a major change. From other rural electrification projects in the region, and in the
pre-payment meter installation program in Dili, it has been learned that such chsuige is only
possible with active involvement of the affected communities from the start. Therefore,
extensive public awareness campaign and consultation were carried out during preparation.
This will be continued during implementation.

Another lesson learned from rural electrification projects in the region is that consumption
based payments instead of a flat rate irrespective of consumption will increase awareness
on the cost of electricity and encourage efficient use of electricity. A new fee collection
and metering system will be selected based on public consultation to improve and simplify
collection of fees. This is possible because suitable low cost pre-paid meters areavailable
on the market. These meters need to be installed at all connected households and a rural
infrastructure for pre-payment needs to be established.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

Initially the intention was to only connect the Aliambata power plant to the existing
Uatolari power system, and not to connect new communities. Later it was decided to
modify the approach and also connect the communities in the vicinity of the Aliambata
power plant (Aliambata, Babula and Borolalo).         The initial envisaged approach was
modified based on the strong request from the communities concerned and because
connecting these communities would guaranteetheir support for the power plant.

The installation of a new gas engine generator set (about 300 kW) instead of one 150 kW
gas engine generator set and two 150 kW dual fuel (gas and diesel) generator sets was
considered but rejected. The major reasons for rejecting this option was due to some
uncertainty concerning firm gas production and electricity demand, a modular and dual

fuel system will provide more flexibility and will enable limiting diesel consumption at
low demand.

Options of introducing innovative institutional designs and pricing policies were also
considered but rejected. This is mainly because the size of the project is very small and the
key focus of the project should mainly focus on demonstration of the technical and
economic viabilityof the project.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnership arrangements(if applicable)-N/A

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

On behalf of the GoTL, the Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy
(MNRMEP) will be the executing agency for the proposed project. MNRMEP has
formally designated the Water and Electricity Policy Directorate under MNRMEP as the
implementing agency of the project. The Water and Electricity Policy Directorate will be
responsible for the day to day management of the project. It will be staffed with a
qualified Project Manager to be funded by the project, supported part time by a staff
memberof the National Directoratefor Water and ElectricityPolicy (NDWEP).

After completion of the extension of the distribution system and commissioning of the
power plant, the operation and maintenance will be transferred to EDTL. To make sure
that the system meets the requirements of EDTL, close coordination with EDTL at the
initial stage of the project is vital. The NDWEP will, therefore, keep EDTL informed on
progress, involve EDTL in taking important decisions and obtain EDTL's no objection on
bidding and other important documents.

The NDWEP will receive procurement and financial management support from the Energy
Services Delivery Project (ESDP)' Project Advisor and technical support fiom EDTL. In
addition, the director of the NDWEP will receive guidance and policy related support from
the Permanent Secretary and the director of the National Directorate for Petroleum, Gas
and Mineral Policy (NDPGMP).

Project financing will come from: (i) the Trust Fund for Timor-Leste (TFET), administered
by IDA; and (ii) the State Budget. Each source of financing has been allocated to discrete
activities and it is not expected that co-financing will be required (see Annex 5). The State
Budget for the Gas Seep Harvesting Project is administered by the NDPG of the
MNRMEP. The administration will be transferred to the NDWEP. The Director of the
NDWEP will be authorized to approve payments from the state budget for the Gas Seep
Harvesting Project. In addition to direct payments and reimbursement, a designated
account will be established to facilitate disbursement of TFET funds.           Initially, the
authorized allocation for the Designated Account will be US$75,000. The NDWEP will



    An IDA fmancedproject which is under preparation.


                                                 6

 keep appropriate records and will make sure that procurement and payments are in
 accordance with both GoTL and the legal agreement requirements.

 Detailed institutional and implementation arrangements are provided in Annex 6.
 Financial management and disbursement arrangements, discussed and agreed with GoTL,
 are detailed in Annex 7. Procurement arrangements, discussed and agreed with GoTL, are
                                                6
 detailed in Annex 8.

 3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

 During project preparation and construction, MNRMEP will be responsible for the
 collection of data associated with relevant project performance indicators.                      After
 commissioning, EDTL will be responsible for monitoring the performance of the project.
 They, through the NDWEP, will report on the key performance indicators in its semi-
 annual report to IDA.

 4. Sustainability

 Supporting MNRMEP to implement the project would ensure the sustainability of the
 project. The training of district personnel of EDTL in the operation and maintenance of
 the gas-based power facilities would promote the sustainability on the technical side. The
 use of prepaid meters and appropriate institutional arrangements would help ensure the
 financial viabilityof the power systems.

 5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

 The project risk is rated as substantial. The identified risks, mitigation measures and risk
 rating of each risk are given in Table 1.


                                 Table 1: Risk Mitigation Measures
      Risk to Project Development                    Risk Mitigation Measure               1 RiskRating     1
                 Objective
  Technical Risks                         Technicalfeasibilitystudy was carried out by
      Lower gas yields than expected      an international consultant with experience of
      Lower diesel replacementthan        using lean methane gases for power generation,
      expected                            based on actual measurementsof gas
      Difficulties using the seepage gas  compositionand flow rate.
      in the duel fuel engines  '


  Consumersdo not pay for the electricity
,                                         With the introduction of effective metering and        M
  consumption.                            fee collectionsystem, the risks of no-payment
                                          will be largelymitigated.

                                          During the intensive awareness creation and
                                          consultationprocess the need for charging for
                                          electricitybased on actual consumptionwas
                                          explainedand accepted by the end-users.
      Risk to Project Development                    Risk Mitigation Measure                 Risk Rating

                 Objective
 Insufficientdata and informationon the     The system design includes the installation of      N
 results of the demonstrationproject.       measuringand monitoring equipment.
                                            Operators will be trained in the use of this
                                            equipmentand a detailed data monitoring
                                            program will be established which must be

 To component results
 Low implementationcapacity of the          o   A qualifiedproject manager will be hired        S
 governmentfor the investment                   for project implementation;
 component which could significantly        o   The project will be implemented by "turn-
 slow down the implementationof the             key"contracts for investment components
  ro'ect.
Higher bidding prices than expected.       Io Investment costs are estimated at high end;   I   S
                                            o 10% price contingency is considered;
                                            o Bidding documents for distributionsystem
                                              will be developed to allow flexibility of
                                              scaling down the project scope.
Overall Risk Rating                                                                             S
Risk ratings: H (high), S (substantial), M (modest), N (negligible or low)

6. Grant conditions and covenants

Concerning environmental and social aspects, MNRlUEP shall:

    o Undertake the implementation of the project in accordance with the project's
        Environmental Management Plan and Resettlement Policy Framework, all in a
        manner satisfactoryto the Bank; and
   o Prepare a site health and safetymanual for construction and operationof the project
        satisfactory to the Bank and implement the manual for the construction and
        operation of the project

Concerning the project implementation,MNRMEP shall:

   o Maintain until at least the completion of the construction of the project, a qualified
        and experienced project manager supported part time by a staff member of the
        NDWEP.

Concerningthe monitoring project performance,MNRMEP shall:

   o Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in
        accordance with the indicators listed in Annex 3, the implementation of the Project
        and the achievementof the project's objective; and
   o Submit to IDA a semi-annual progress report on this project using a reporting
        format agreed with the World Bank.

     D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

     1. Economic and financial analyses

     A cost-benefit analysis (without considering environmental externalities) was carried out
     to estimatethe economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the proposed project. The EIRR
     was estimated at 14 percent, if benefits were valued only at fuel cost savings by replacing
     diesel with gas from natural gas seeps. Net present values (NPV) at 10 percent are US$
     0.35 million. The financial rate of return for the project is estimated at 11 percent
     assuming that EDTL's current standard tariff will apply to the consumers of the project
     and the government's budgetary support to the project is capacity subsidy. Details refer to
     Annex 9.

     2. Technical

I    The scale of the proposed gas seep harvesting facilities and associated power plant is very
     small. And the facilities have been designed based on the findings of the Technical Study
     for Use of Natural Gas Seep carried out by international consultants. The facilities will be
     built to applicabletechnical standardsand best practices to ensure reliable gas delivery and
     power supply and safety of operation. The proposed power plant will be provided with a
     modem metering and monitoring system to measure the quantity of gas consumed and
     flared, diesel and lubrication oil consumption, and electricity generation. Both the gas
     seep harvesting power plant and associated distribution system will be constructed under a
     design, supply and installation contract. The contractor will also be responsible for
     training EDTL staff in operation and maintenance. An international project manager will
     also be employedto supervise the implementationof the project.

1    3. Fiduciary

     Financial Management: Overall financialmanagement of funds under the proposed project
     will be the responsibility of MNRMEP. The project management manager and ESDP
     Project advisor will assist MNRMEP in the discharge of these responsibilities. Activities
     funded through the State Budget will be captured in the GoTL accounting system whilst
     those funded through TFET will need to be recorded in a separate system. Given the very
     small volume of contracts and payments expected this could be in the form of a simple
     spreadsheet. MNRMEP will be responsible for aggregating the two sets of information
     into a single report. MNRMEP will initiate all requests for payments to contractors which
     will be processed by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOPF) (Treasury) following
     standard GoTL procedures.

     Disbursement: The proposed project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009.
     Disbursement will use traditional disbursement methods: direct payments, reimbursements
     or Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation supporting disbursementswill
     be retained by MNRMEP for at least one year after receipt by IDA of the audit report for
     the year in which the last disbursement was made.

Financial Management: Overall financial management of funds under the proposed project
will be the responsibility of MNRMEP. MNRMEP will be responsible for initiating
payments to contractors and ensuring that the goods procured under the project are
properly reflected in the inventory and other systems maintained by MNRMEP. The
Treasury will assign appropriate staff to ensure that these tasks are carried out in a
systematic and timely manner.

Audit: MNRMEP will be responsible for preparation of financial statements of all project
expenditures. Given that the life of the project implementation is expected to be less than
18 months a single audit, at the end of the project, will be required. The GoTL has
contractedan acceptableauditor for the audit of all bank administered projects and the cost
of the audit services is borne by the GoTL.

Procurement: The procurement volume under this project is expected to be limited: three
ICB goods contract, and several small consulting service contracts totaling around
$US1.697 million.      Procurement will be carried out by the National Directorate of
Corporate Services (NDCS) under MNRMEP. The Procurement Division (PD) of MOPF,
which is becoming experienced with Bank Guidelines and SBD through its association
with the TFET program, will review and clear all procurement documents, bid evaluation
reports and contract awards prior to submitting to IDA for No Objection.              Under
Government rules, the PD reviews and processes all procurements valued over US$
100,000 (including TFET funded) before submitting the documents to the Contract
Committeefor review and approval.

4. Social

The proposed project is expected to provide direct benefit to communities living in six
villages/Sugos in Viqueque Districts. The total number of households expected to benefit
from the project will be around 3,000 including approximately 1000 existing customers of
EDTL. As part of the efforts to assess the social impacts, gauge affordability and
willingness to pay, and seek community support for project the government engaged a
local NGO (Timor Institute of Development Studies, TIDS) to (a) conduct a census count
of households expected to directly benefit from the project; (b) carry out socio-economic
household survey; (c) evaluate the potential social impacts of the proposed project, and (d)
consult with communities that will potentially be affected by the proposed project.

It was assessed that the construction and operation of the small gas seep harvesting facility
and associated small power plant will require no involuntary resettlement (loss of shelter,
land or access to livelihood). The construction of 20 kV and low voltage distribution
system along the existing road may cause some inconvenience during the construction and
may require cutting andlor trimming of the trees owned by local communities who have
repeatedlyexpressed willingness to do so in exchange for having electricity in their village.
As good practice, a resettlement framework has been developed by the government to
address the limited impact, if any is actually met during implementation.

Through project visits to Aliambata and discussions with key informants in Timor-Leste
consisting of local residents, NGO, government officers and staff of the World Bank in

Dili, the team has established that there are no indigenous peoples living in or using the
project site and anywhere near it for food gathering. There was no evidence of the
presence of a group of people consistent to the generic description of IPS used in OP4.10
"referring to a distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group possessing the following
characteristics in varying degrees:

        self identification as a member of a distinct indigenous cultural group and
        recognition of this identity by others;
        collective attachment to geographically distinct habitatsor ancestral territories;
        customary cultural, economic, social or political institutions that are separate from
        those of the dominant society and culture; and
        an indigenous language, often different from the official language of the country or
        region."

5. Environment

The scale of the project is very small, hence it is not expected to have any significant and
irreversible negative impacts on environment, natural habitats and forests.          The gas
collection system and the small dual fuel power station will be designed, constructed and
operated according to international standards, while the electrical distributio~line will
largely follow existing roads to reduce the intrusion onto private property. There may be
minor and temporary negative environmental impacts during construction such as increase
in traffic at the project area, temporary deterioration of air and water quality and removal
of some vegetation consisting mostly of saplings of Leucaena sp. at the site of the power
station and in some sections of the distribution line. An Environmental ~anagementPlan
(EMP) has been prepared to address the limited impacts of the project. On one band, since
the project will principally involve the collection of natural gas for electrical power
generation, it will provide important positive environmentalbenefits. Most of the targeted
consumers are currently using "dirty" fossil fuels such as kerosene or plant oil for their
lighting. By using electricityfor lighting, the indoor air quality will improve sipificantly.
Further the project will have positive global environmental impact by utilizingseep gas for
electricity generating. It avoids methane being released into the atmosphere (methane is a
strong greenhouse gas) and it replaces electricitygenerated from diesel.

NDWEP will ensure the implementationof the EMP and site health and safety plan by the
contractors during construction. The EDTL, who will operate the completed project, will
implement routine environmentalmeasures during operation and maintenance.

The environmental management capability of the country is low. Its enviromental laws
and regulations, including pollution and environmental impact assessment (EIA) laws have
yet to be approved.       Currently, the National Directorate for Environmentdl Services
(NDES) under the Office of the Prime Minister is monitoring and providing
recommendations to activities that may have negative environmental impacts under the
Indonesia environmental laws and regulations. At local level, the NDES has focus points
in five districts and there are plans to expand further. In addition, there are proposals
contained in the 2006 Sector Investment Program of Timor-Leste to strengthen the natural

resources and environment sector of the country through building the capacity of the
NDES and equipping them with the urgently needed equipment and facilities in
preparation of the soon to be promulgated EIA and pollution control laws. This is
something that the Bank and other donors should support to ensure that the rapid
restoration and developmentof Timor-Leste is balanced with environmental protection and
management.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                   Yes                   No
  Environmental Assessn~ent(OP/BP/GP4.01)                                       [XI                    [ 1
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                 [ 1                   [XI
  Pest Management    (u                                                         [ 1                   [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                       [ 1                   [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                           [ 1                   [XI
  IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                         [ 1                   [XI
  Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                           [ 1                   [XI
  Safety of Dams (OPll3P4.37)                                                   [ 1                   [XI
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OPBPIGP 7.60).                                    [ 1                   [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OPBPIGP 7.50)                            [ 1                   [XI


7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness

Policy exceptions: None.

Readiness: Technicalspecifications have been prepared for the entire project and
procurement is expected to commenceshortly.




*
   By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefInal determination of the parties'
   claims on the disputed areas

                Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground

                    TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project


Background

Timor-Leste regained its independence on May 20,2002 following 24 years of occupation
by Indonesia. It is one the poorest countries in the world with annual per capita GDP
below $400 and a population of about 925,000.              The country suffers from high
unemployment and a serious shortage of skilled professionals and experienced managers.
It has been estimated that only about 85% of the population have access to electricity in
Dili - the national capital, 18% in the district capitals and only 5% in rural areas. The
number of households with electricity has been estimated to be about 26,500 in Dili, about
11,700 in the districtsoutsideDili and about 5,150 in sub-districttowns.

The power systems in Timor-Leste were owned and operated by Indonesia's national
power corporation (PLN) up until 1999. Following the violence and destruction that
preceded the departure of the Indonesians, much of the power system especially outside
Dili was badly damaged. Most of PLN technical staff and management departed at this
time.   All data and consumer records were lost.           Following the departure of the
Indonesians, the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) set
up EDTL from the remnants of the old power system with assistance of various donors
such as Australia, Japan, Portugal and Norway. However, it was not until June, 2001 that
EDTL's relationship to the East Timor Public Administration was legally defined, and not
until August 2001-immediately prior to the end of the UN administration-that EDTL
gained the right to charge Dili consumers for electricity.

Initially, the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Public Works (MTCPW)
administered the power sector. From July 1,2005, responsibility for the power sector has
been transferred to the Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy
(MNRMEP). Under the MNRMEP, EDTL is responsible for supply of electricity to Dili
and 11 district capitals of which only Liquica is connectedto Dili. However, EOTL is still
not a separate legal entity from MNRMEP and is currently under a transitional
management contract. The GoTLis recruiting a new management contractor for EDTL. It
is expected that recruitmentwill be completed in 2007.

A major development with respect to the electricity system in Timor-Leste is Timor-
Leste's eligibility for funding from the Millennium Challenge Corporation.            The
Government is in the process of preparing an application for funding which is due to be
submitted by the end of 2006. The application will include proposals to establish a high
voltage transmission grid and electrification of all households that can reasonably be
connected to the grid bringingoverall electrification rate to 62%.

Government Initiatives since Independence

Significant progress has been made in the energy sector since the independence of Timor-
Leste. In addition to substantialdonor-managed rehabilitation efforts during the UNTAET
period, the Government has been able to: (a) proceed with legal and regulatory
development; (b) develop a Power Sector Development Plan (PSDP) covering a 20 year
period; (c) develop a Sector Investment Plan (SIP) outlining priority investments for the
short and medium term; (d) employ a management contractor to operate EDTL; and (e)
substantially improvecollections for electricity bills.

The Basic Law for the National Power System, enacted in May 2003, defines the role of
the Government in the power system, delegates most of its tasks to a regulatory authority,
and favors outsourcing of electricity services to the private sector. However, the various
decree laws needed to support the Basic Law have not been passed and the institutional
framework to administer the power sector has not been established. The Govemment
decided to look again at the legal and regulatory arrangements for the power sector and a
study entitled Strengthening the Institutional Framework and Capacities in the Power
Sector (financed by Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF)) has recently
been completed. This study formulated a long term vision of the power sector involvinga
continuing role for EDTL alongside other entrants. In the longer term it recommended
concessioning of EDTL, but assessed that this was premature at this stage. A new
management contractfor three to five years was recommended.

A PSDP for Timor-Leste covering a 20-year development period was prepared in 2003
under the direction of the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The study establishes the
basis for future development of the power sector focusing on grid development and major
generation sources. This was followed up with another study to determine more detailed
electrification               with a focus on renewable based off-grid development where
applicable, financed by Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) and.
Asia Technical Alternative Energy (ASTAE). A draft report for this study has now been
issued which details the feasibility of grid connection for every suco in the country. This
indicates that about 66% of households in the country can be economically provided with
gnd based electrification. For the remainder off grid electrification will be required.

In the context of the PSDP, the Government released a Power Sector Investment Plan:
Priorities and Proposed Sector Investment Program in NovemberIDecember 2003
(updated March 2004)~with input from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
The SIP identified the following short-term investments as priorities for the power system:
(a) improvementof fuel oil procurement for EDTL; @) supplementing generation capacity
at Comoro Power Station; (c) reinforcement and reliability improvement of Dili
distribution system; (d) energy efficient larnpllight bulb replacement program; (e)
districtlsub-districtrehabilitation program; (f) demonstration gas seep harvesting projects
with associated power plants; and (g) strategic studies to guide further legallregulatory
development and develop a rural electrification framework for Timor-Leste. Action has

    -

    A final version of the SIP was issued in April 2005 which includes additional priority projects.


                                                     14

already been taken with respect to all of these proposals. IDA administered TFET
financed projects are being implemented in relation to items (a) to (d) and (f) above and, as
noted earlier, the two studies being financed by trust-funded programs administered by the
World Bank (PPIAF, ESMAP and ASTAE) have now been virtually completed. Item (e) -
-district sub-district rehabilitation program will now be undertaken under the MCC
financed national electrification program. Japan h d i n g has also contributed to Items (a)
and (e).

As part of the Electricity Sector Policy approved in September 2002, the Government
decided to outsource the management of all of EDTL's operations to Companhia de
Electricidade de Macau (CEM), under a management contract for a period of three years.
The CEM have provided three senior managers: a general manager, a technical manager
and a finance and administration manager and six professional staff. Under the contract,
CEM is paid a fixed fee and a performance based fee depending on improvements in cash
flow and key performance indicators. The contractor can receive up to 25% of the annual
increase in the cash flow in the first year, 20% for the second year and 15% for the third
year.   A Supervisory Committee was appointed by the Government to monitor the
performance of the contractor. The contract commenced on March 1, 2004 and will run
for three years.

Future Structure of Power Sector


The study "Strengtheningthe InstitutionalFramework and Capacities in the Power sector"
has now been completed and has recommended the following vision for the power sector:

        In the medium and long term, Timor-Leste should have a power sector that is
        financially sustainable and able to provide affordable and reliable electricity
        supply, and to expand electricity access to an increasing portion of the population.
        The institutions that undertake the commercial operations of electricity supply
        should be separate from Government;

        EDTL should remain an integrated generation and distribution utility, dnd should
        also own transmission assets once these are constructed. However, EDTL should
        not be a legal monopoly.       Other generation options (whether hydropower or
        thermal) can be developedas independent schemes;

        The assets of EDTL should remain owned by Government. EDTL should be
        offered as a long-term (20 year) concession to the private sector, whereby existing
        assets are leased to a private company. Additional investment in the sector can be
        through both public and private capital;

        Essential economic and technical regulatory tasks are implemented in the terns of
        the concession with Government rights and obligations exercised through an inter-
        ministerial supervisory committee. The authority to license independent power
       producers should rest with the Minister responsible for energy; and

       EDTL should retain its defacto monopoly rights to customers currently connected
       to its grid.    These rights should be incorporated into the future concession.

        However, there should be opportunity for IPPs to be established, and opportunity
        for non-utilityprovision of rural electrification services.


The consultants concluded that it not feasible, for several reasons, to move straight to the
long-term solution outlined above. There is a need, in the interim, to further improve
EDTLYscommercial operations, and to establish it as a corporation with a track record of
improvement. There is also a need, during the transition period, to develop new generation
assets and to prepare for the award of a concession

Rural Electrification

Policy guidelines for rural electrification should be developed by the MRNMPE. The
facilitation of government policy should be undertaken by a rural electrification unit within
the Ministry. This unit should have responsibility for identifying priority areas for rural
electrification in accordance with the master plan, and recommendation of subsidy
allocations.

In terms of implementation and operation, a distinction is made between grid and off-grid
supplyarrangements.

          For grid electrification, responsibility for implementation and operation should
          rest with EDTL. The utility should seek to establish an efficient collection system
          and low-cost operational arrangements, such as prepayment meters, bulk billing to
          a local committee, current-limitedsupplies with fixed monthly charges and so on.

          For off-nrid electrification, the rural electrification unit should encourage
          communitybased or private solutions where feasible. Where local institutions are
          strong enough, the former will be appropriate. Where the project is larger, or
          where there is the possibility for local private entrepreneurs to be involved, the
          unit should tender the scheme, open tender is preferable. In such a tender, there
          should be no restrictions on the form of entity bidding, i.e. it could be a private
          entity, a local community-basedgroup or even EDTL itself.

          EDTL services: EDTL should establish a technical service unit which would sell
          its services to rural electrificationentities (either community-basedor private).

          Rural electrification fund: A rural electrification subsidy mechanism should be
          established through line-items in the State Budget, supported if possible through
          donor assistance. These subsidy funds should be awarded on a project-by-project
          basis to bring down capital costs to the extent that the project is financiallyviable.

While Government has not formally adopted the consultant's recommendations, they are
proceeding to implement the early action items. A contract has been awarded to a
consultant to carry out a performance audit of the current management contract and to
prepare comprehensive terms of reference for a new management contract to be awarded
based on competitive proposals. A request for prequalification will be issued shortly. A
study examining the options for establishingEDTL as an independent legal entity will also
proceed shortly to enable the Government's intentions in this regard to be outlined in the

new Management Contract. Establishment of arrangements for off-grid electrification is
likely to be delayed until the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) fmanced grid
based electrificationprogram is well underway.

    Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies

                    TIMOR-LES'TE: Gas Seep Harvesting project

TFET financed:

Power Sector Priority Investment Project: Its objective is to improve electricity
generation, distribution, and end-use efficiency in Dili. Its major components are (A) the
replacement of the MAK IV engine at Unit No. 5 of Comoro Power Plant, (B)
rehabilitation of the EDTL's distribution system, and (C) distribution of 60,000 Compact
Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs)to Dili customers who are participatingin EDTL's pre-payment
meter program. The total           costs were estimated at US$ 1.39 million at the project
appraisal stage and are being financed by TFET. In April, 2005, more funds (around
US$0.325 million) to finance the project were requested by the government and agreed by
the donorson a no-objection basis. The project is now under implementation and expected
to be completedon March, 31,2007.

Economic Institutions Capacity Building: The objective of this project is to assist in
strengthening the capacity of Timor-Leste in evaluating economic options and designing
and implementing economic policies through the training of relevant East Timorese staff.
The project pursues this by training East Timorese public sector staff working on economic
policies and decision-making on basic and advanced tools of applied economic analysis.
Through an amendment, the fuel procurement study (currently at prequalification stage)
has been included in this project with additional TFET funding.

NORAD financed:

       Preparation Studies: Ira Lalaro Hydropower Project. The feasibility study update is
       currently underway, funded by NORAD. The PSDP report confirmed the necessity
       of the additional geo-technical studies, and recommended update and elaboration of
       the Environment Impact Assessment and also consideration of alternative design
       schemes for Ira Lalaro.

       Preparation Studies: Baucau Mini Hydropower Plant.          An October 2002 WE
       (Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate) mission identified several
       micro-hydro schemes that appear to have good potential. One of them is s at
       Baucau Town where a 350 kW, 3 GWyear scheme could be developed to utilize
       water flowing from a spring (after local water supply needs have been met).
       Estimates comparing the cost of diesel generator and a hydropower plant of the
       same size showed that hydropower energy would be less expensive than diesel
       generation. Therefore, a feasibility study supported by NORAD is s underway.
       The consultant's contract also provides for the preparation of bid documents.

JICA financing under finalization:

       Dili Distribution Rehabilitation. Dili distribution system has been restored and in
       operation with adequate 20 kV line capacity for the existing load but further
       investment is needed to: -(a) refurbish substations to reduce technical losses from

around 15% at present (due mainly to power transformer overload) to the 6% that
might be expected for a distribution system of the size and topology of the Dili
system; and (b) improve reliability and quality of service, through installation of
some auto-reclosers and other switchgear in the distribution network.

Comoro Power Plant Generation.(4 MW additional capacity). The Comoro Power
Plant has four medium-speed and eight high-speed diesel units.         One of the
medium-speed units is out of service and based on the JICA mission's assessment,
not repairable. As a result, the newer highspeed units (financed by Norway) are
running at high capacity factors, which will accelerate degradation of their output,
efficiency and lifetime (high-speed diesel engines are normally used for standby
and short-term operation, not to serve base load).         In addition, generation
efficiencies are somewhat lower (fuel consumption for a high-speed unit is s 200-
250 gkWh in comparison to approximately 175 g/kWh for a medium speed unit).
Therefore, installationof a 4 MWmehum-speed unit is considered appropriate.

                        Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring

                      TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project

                                   ResultsFramework




of Timor-Leste, while at the same  generated from low cost gas
time reducing GHG emissions.       from the seeps; and




                                   Award of contract for the

                                                                                    toring
                                                                                                   Data Collectionand Repo ing
                                                                                                                              Responsibilityfor
                                                                                                                              Data Collection


 of the demonstrationpower                                                                            1
                                                                                     Semi-annually     Contractor reports to NDWEP
 plant                                                                                                 NDWEP

                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                       EDTL reports to       NDWEP
 generationfrom gas seeps                   the electricity       the electricity                      NDWEP based on
                                                                                                       consumptionof gas
                                                                                                       and diesel of the
                                                                                                       power plant
                            6-hour                                                                     EDTL report to        NDWEP
 existingcustomers          electricity                           consumers have                       NDWEP
                            supplyfor every                       more than 6-hour
                            two days.                             electricitysupply
                                                                  everyday


1 Component 1: Investment                   Award of turn-key    I
  component                                 contract for gas seep                    Semi-annually                           NDWEP
                                            harvestingand
                                            generation by July
                                            2007;

                                            Award of turn-key
                                            contractfor
                                            distributionsystem
                                            by July 2007;
  Coinponent 2: Technical;                  Award of contract in
  Assistance                                                                         Semi-annually    I

                                Annex 4: Detailed Project Description

                         TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project


Theproposed project consists of two components:

     1. Investment Component.
     2. Technical Assistance Component.

1.       Investment Component

Theinvestment component consists of two'sub-components:

     a. Power Plant construction
     b. DistributionSystem extension

The gas seep from which the seep gas will be used to generate electricity is located near the
Aliambata karnpong, in the Babulo Suco, Uatolari Sub-district of the Viqueque District. The
seep gas was sampled and tested as part of the preparation for the current project. Over the 14
m2 area enclosed by the temporary collection membrane, the seep was found to have a natural
flow rate of 27 Us. The composition was approximately 70% methane, 20% nitrogen, 6%
oxygen, 2% higher hydrocarbons and 2% other gasses. The lower heating value (LHV) of the
seep gas, calculated from .its composition, is approximately 27 M J / N ~ ~ ;         this indicates a
minimum capacity of about 730 kWth. A greater hydrocarbon flow rate is anticipated when a
permanent gas collection system is installed since the area to be covered, provisionally estimated
at 50 m2, is substantially greater than the 14 m2 of the earlier trial. The proposed power plant to
use the seep gas will be constructed near the gas seep.

The electricity produced at the Aliambata power plant will be used in the Uatolari and
Uatocarbau Sub-districts. For this purpose, medium voltage (20 kV) distribution lines will be
built to connect the power plant to the existing EDTL Uatolari and Uatocarbau distribution
systems. In addition, the Uatolari distribution system will be extended to connect the suco center
of Babulo and to connect Uma Uain Leten.

A.      Power Plant Sub-component: US$485,000

The project will provide a permanent seep gas collection facility consisting of a concrete
perimeter wall founded 1.5 m below ground level and protruding 0.6 m above ground level and a
steel fiamed plywood clad roof covered by an impermeableinembrane. A piping system, with a
gas flare and gas regulation, will connect the gas collector to the power plant. The power plant
will consist of two dual-fuelled enginelgeneratorsets each rated about 150 kW and a 150 kW gas
enginelgenerator set.       If there is a substantial cost advantage, one of the dual fuel
enginelgenerator sets will be a modified existing (relatively new) 150 kW Deutz diesel
enginelgeneratorset. In that case, the project will procure the dual fuel conversion kit and have
it installed at the project site by the supplier of the conversion kit. The objective of modifying an
existing diesel enginelgenerator set is not only cost saving but also to test modification of

existing diesel engines in the field for possible replication in the future. However, if there are no
substantial cost savings, all three enginelgenerator sets will be new.

The gas engine will use seep gas as fuel. The dual fuel engines will use a mixture of diesel and
seep gas a fuel. Up to 20% of the required energy is expected to come from diesel. At full
capacity, the seep gas required is estimated at 48 Vs. It is expected that the permanent gas
collection system can produce this gas flow.

In order to keep the system modular, each enginelgenerator set will have its own step-up
transformer and metering and control unit.

When the gas demand is less than the gas production, the surplus seep gas needs to be flared.
The flare will be installed at a safe distance from the gas collection unit and power plant. The
gas flaring system will also have a flaring regulation system which will detect when gas demand
of the power plant is less than the gas production and which will activate the flare.

The power plant will also include a fence which encloses the power plant, gas collection unit and
gas flare. The power plant will be situated only a short distance from the main road, requiring
only a short access road to be constructed. Other components included in the power plant are
diesel and lubrication oil storage tanks, lighting and an operator's room with toilet and
washroom facilities.

B.      Distribution System Sub-Component: US$1,097,000

The medium voltage (20 kV) distribution system extension will include the connection of the
Aliambata power plant to the end of the line of the Uatolari distribution system at Afoloikai,
including a river crossing at Borolalo (6.5 km). It further includes the extension fiom Borolalo
to the Babulo suco center (2.5 km) and the extension from Makadiki to Uma Uain Leten (2.5
krn). Finally, the Aliambata power plant will be connected to the end of the line of the
Uatocarbaudistribution system (8.5 km).                                                 -

The project will extend the low voltage distribution system with 7.5 krn, install 10 step-down
transformers, and will connect 2000 additional households, increasing the total number of
connected households to the Uatolari-Uatocarbau distribution system to 3000.

To further improve the tariff collection and reduce its cost, an effective metering and fee
collection system, such as pre-paid metering syste, will be introduced. The system will consist
of meters (at households), credit dispensing units (at the vendor), and a system master station to
collect transaction data from the credit dispensing unit, including consumer data. The meters
will be installed at all 3000 households, including the 2000 new connections and 1000 existing
connections.

It should be noted that the scope of the distributionsystem extensionwill be reduced if additional
budget is needed for the power plant. In that case, the number of households connected will be
reduced andforthe Uatocarbau distribution system will not be interconnected. Any reduction in

scope will be added to the distributionsystem extension of the Energy Services Delivery Project,
which is currently being prepared.

Timor-Leste adopted a uniform tariff system. This means that households in the Uatolari and
Uatocarbau Sub-districts will paythe same tariff and connectionfee as households in Dili. From
June 2006, the uniform tariff has been reduced from $0.16/kWhto $0.12/kWh. This policy has,
however, still not been implemented. Electricity consumers in Dili and in the sub-districts still
pay $0.16/kWh.

Electricity consumers in the Uatolari and Uatocarbau Sub-districts started to pay for their
electricity consumption in April 2006. Although tariff collection has to be improved further,
consumers in these sub-districts belong to the better paying customers in the country. It is
expected that the introduction of the pre-paid meter system will further improve the tariff
collection rate.

The connection cost paid by new electricity consumers in Dili is $10 for single phase connection
and $100 for 3 phase connection. In principle, households in the Uatolari and Uatocarbau Sub-
districts will need to pay the same connection cost for new connections. The connection fee
includes a 20 meters line drop. Additional distance, if required, has to be paid by the household.
On the implementation of this policy, a decision will be made during the "socialization", planned
for early 2007. The socialization,or stakeholderconsultation, will be organized by the Ministry
of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy and will include participation of government
officials,district parliamentmembers, and experts.

Electricity meters at existing connections will be replaced by pre-paid meters at no cost to the
households.

To study its impact, households connected to the Uatolari-Uatocarbau grid system will have 24
hours electricity service. This is possible as the seep gas can not be stored and will have to be
flared when the power plant is not working. Because the load is expected to be low during the
day, the additional diesel consumption, compared with 6 hours electricity services, is expected to
be small.


2,      Project Managementand Support: US$115,000

To manage the implementation of the gas seep harvesting project a Project Manager will be
recruited under the NDWEP of the h4NlWXP (see Annex 6). The Project Manager will be
funded from the Project Managementand Support budget.

Additional activities under the project management and support sub-component are: the
promotion of energy efficiency and productive use of electricity, continued socialization,
training,end of project survey and incremental operatingexpenses.

                               Annex 5: Project Costs and Financing Plan

                           TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project

                                            Estimated Proiect Cost
                                                               .,
                                                                  Local          Foreign               Total
Project Cost By Component andlor Activity                         us $             us $                us $
A. Investment Component
A.1.Power Plant
        Civil Works
        Step-up Transformers
        Gas flare and gas regulation system
        2 Dual Fuel EnginelGenerator Sets
   -    1 Gas EnginelGenerator Set
        Metering and Control Equipment
A.2. Distribution System    .

        (a)
        20 kV DistributionSystemExtension
        Step-DownTransformers
        LV Lines
        HouseholdConnections
        (b)
        Metering System
B. TechnicalAssistance Component
        Project Manager and Project Management
        Trainingloperation Optimization
        Continued Socialization
        Audit
        IncrementalOperatingExpenses (IOE)

Total Project Base Cost
        Taxes and Duties
        Physical Contingencies
        Price Contingencies

Total Project Cost                                                50,000        1,797,000            1,847,000
        Interest During Construction
        Front-endFee

Total Financing Required                                          50,000        1,797,000            1,847,000


Note I:   There are no duties and taxes on imported goods

Note 2:   None of the equipment required is manufacturedin Timor-Leste. It is possible that local agents may bid
          to provide imported goods. The local currency in Timor-Lesteis the US dollar.

Note 3:   Most estimates for goods are based on actual quotations. Ifprice contingencies are insufficient, the
          extent of the distribution extension can be adjusted.

Note 4: The grant agreement for TFETfundswill note that nofinds may be used on account ofpayments for any
        taxes or duties, including withholdingtax

                                                 Financing Plan
Project Cost By Component andlor        Local                Foreign               Total
Activity                                US $                 US $-                 US $
                                           TFET   Gov. Budget    TFET   Gov. Budget   TFET   Gov. Budget
   -
A, Investment Component
A.1.Power Plant
     Civil Works
     Step-up Transformers
     Gas flare and gas regulationsystem
     2 Dual Fuel EnginelGeneratorSets
     1 Gas EnginelGeneratorSet
     Metering and Control Equipment
A.2. DistributionSystem
     (a)
     20 kV Distribution System
     Extension
     Step-DownTransformers
     LV Lines
     HouseholdConnections
     (b)
    MeteringSystem
B. Technical Assistance Component
    Project Manager and Project
    Management
     TrainingloperationOptimization
     ContinuedSocialization
     Audit
    Incremental Operating Expenses

Total Project Base Cost
    Taxes and Duties
    Physical Contingencies
    Price Contingencies

Total Project Cost                        50,000               800,000   997,000    85<,000   997,000
    Interest During Construction                        -
    Front-endFee                                                                                    -

Total Financing Required                  50,000        -      800,000   997,000    850,000   997,000

                          Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements

                      TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project

The project will be implemented by the MNRMEP. The MNRMEP has seven directorates, i.e.
(1) NDCS, (2) NDWEP, (3) National Directorate for Petroleum, Gas and Mineral Policy
(NDPGEP), (4) EDTL, (5) National Directorate for Petroleum and Gas (NDPG), (6) National
Directorateof Geology, and Mineral Resources (NDGM), and (7) National Directorate for Water
and Sanitation (NDWS). The structure of the MNRMEP is schematically given below. Project
implementationwill involve the following directorates:NDWEP, NDCS, NDPG and EDTL.


      STRUCTURE OF MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES, MINERALS AND ENERGY POLICY

                                         '7Minister



                                                               Stat Authority



                                           Secretary




MNRMEP has formally designated the NDWEP as the implementing agency of the project. In
the NDWEP an experienced Project Manager will be recruited to be responsible for the day to
day management of the project under the direct supervision of the NDWEP. The Project
Manager will be supportedpart time by a staff member of the NDWEP.

After completion of the extension of the distribution system and commissioning of the power
plant, the operation and maintenance will be transferred to EDTL. To make sure that the system
meets the requirements of EDTL, close coordination with EDTL in the initial stage of the project
is vital. The NDWEP will, therefore, keep EDTL informed on progress, involve EDTL in taking
important decisions that will impact the eventual operation after hand over and obtain EDTL s 7


no objection on bidding and other important documents. These formal requests for no objection
will be submittedby the Director of the NDWEP to the ManagingDirector of EDTL.

EDTL will provide details on the management structure after hand over (operation and
maintenance); including the identification of the operators of the Aliambata power plant and
their supervisors in the district (Viqueque) and Dili. This will enable building the required

    capacity with the right persons. Operators and their managers should be involved as soon as
    possibleand not only after hand over. EDTL will also provide technicalsupport to the NDWEP.

    The project manager will carry out the day to day management, but all the major decisions will
    require the clearance of the Director of NDWEP.

    Procurement and financial management for all activities under the Ministry, including for the
    project, is the responsibility of the NDCS. There are three sub-directorates under the NDCS
    which are responsible for finance management, procurement management and human resources
    management. For procurement and financial management related to the project, the Project
    Manager and the ESDP Project Advisor will provide assistance (de facto will carry out all
    preparatorywork).

    The director of the NDWEP will, if needed, receive guidance and policy related support from the
    Permanent Secretary and the director of the NDPG. A schematic presentationof the Institutional
    Arrangementis given in the Figure below.




                                          ------   ,  ., - .
                                                          ', '
                                                             ,.                        ,         1 , .   ,
                                                                        "
                                                                      ,                   :$,,     '
                                                                           .                              *$,.
                                                                                     I   j   )
                                                    , "     , ,, 2,   .: ,.
                                                       .                                .,:':,
                                           Support     . :ND,wE.:..;;~,,-
                                                  :.:        .",..:                               I , " ;
                                                               .
                                                                                              ~          ,  ,
                                                  ;:* :..:.jsr;l'  ..LY3.                          .I; '
                                                      .                           ,..:,:, .
                                                                                          .,t               :
                                          ------+ :,
                                                        :,<;j>  .,:;*-.;!.,;;,;,;,:, &jl,&'y;:               .:            ,-
                                                                                                                            ;..
                                                                                                                             ., .,, yl.'.
                                                                                                                                 ",       ' I
                                                                             .                           !;;
                                                                                ,             \-.w-.
                                                                                   , , L;"<
                                           Policy                              I              t -

                                           ~elaied                                                     -.-..Technical
                                                                                                          ..
I                        I                                                                                           .-
I                        I                 Support                                            No ~bje'ciibq
I         -           I                                                                                         'support
I                     I
I                     I
I                     I
I                      I
I                      I
I                      I
L - - - - - - - - - A
                                                                                                                                    I
    Project                                                                                                    -----------------b   I

    Related
                                                                                                                      Information
    Procurement
    and Financial           "

   Management
    Support

  The project will be financed from two sources: the TFET administered by IDA and the State
  Budget. The State Budget for the Gas Seep Harvesting Project (R-3.1.1) is administered by the
  Oil and Gas Directorate of the MNRMEP. The administration will be transferred to the Water
  and Electricity Policy Directorate, the Director of the Water and Electricity Policy Directorate,
  who will be authorized to make payments from the State Budget for the Gas Seep Harvesting
  Project. For using the TFET budget, a designated account under the MOPF will be established.
  Initially, an agreed amount will be transferred to the designated account. Additional transfers

can be requested by MOPF when the designated account drops below an agreed level. The
director of the Water and Electricity Policy Directorate can request MOPF to make payments
directly to contractors for supply of goods, works and services. The NDWEP will keep
appropriate records and will make sure that procurement and payment are in accordance with the
World Bank rules and procedures.

              Annex 7: Financial Managementand Disbursement Arrangements

                       TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project


1.      The desired /result of program financial management (FM) arrangements is that funds
will be used for the purposes intended. Financial management risk is the risk that grant proceeds
will not be used for the purposes intended and is a combination of country, sector and project
specific risk factors,the FM risk rating for this project is Low.

Implementing Entity

2.      Overall financial management of funds under the proposed project will be the
responsibility of the MNRMEP with the MOPF (Treasury) of the Government of Timor-Leste
providing the necessary support for processing of payments and withdrawal applications. Project
financing will come from: (i) the TFET, administered by IDA; and (ii) the State Budget. The
State Budget for the Gas Seep Harvesting Project is administered by the NDPG of the
MNRMEP. The administration will be transferred to the NDWEP. The Director of NDWEP will
be authorized to approve payments from the state budget for the Gas Seep HarvestingProject.

3.      The project management advisor and ESDP Project advisor will assist MNRMEP in the
discharge of financial management responsibilities. The number of contracts and volume of
transactions is expected to be very low and should not present a burden on the project
management resources available. MNRMEP will initiate all requests for payments which will be
processedby MoPF (Treasury) following standard GoTL procedures.

4.      During the course of project implementation it is anticipated that the NCDS will receive
Technical Assistance, including capacity building for financial management. This may provide
the opportunity for local counterpart staff to take on more of the responsibilities for project
record keeping and reporting.

Disbursement

5.      Proceeds from the TFET Grant, and the State Budget will be segregated with each source
of funding being used to finance a discrete set of activities - this allows the disbursement
percentage for the grant to be set at 100% as whilst there is co-financing at the project level this
is not required at the activity level. Three disbursement methods will be used: direct payments,
Advance and Special Commitment. The records evidencing eligible expenditures will be retained
by MNRMEP for at least one year after receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which
the last disbursement was made.         A designated account will be established to facilitate
disbursement of TFET funds. The ceiling for the Designated Account will be US$75,000.
Supporting documentation for reporting eligible expenditures paid fiom the DAs include: List of
payments against contracts in the form acceptable to the Bank, and records evidencing eligible
expenditures, e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices will be furnished for the contracts subject
to the Bank Prior Review which cover all foods, works and services contracts according to the
procurement plan. Statement of Expenditure in the form acceptable to the Bank for all other
expenditures will be furnished. Supporting documents for requests for direct payment include:
records evidencingeligible expenditures, e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices.

The disbursementtable including categories and percentage is attached below.


                                   Amount      of    the Percentage               of
                                   Grant       Allocated Expenditures       to   be
  Categorv                         {expressed   in US Financed
                                   Dollars)               dinclusiveof Taxes)



  (1)      Goods     Works    and
  consultants' services for the
  Project under Parts A.l, A.2 (b) 830,000
  and Part B.

  (2) Training under Part B.         10,000

  (3) Incremental Operating Costs    10,000
  under Parts A.1, A.2 (b) and
  Part B.

  TOTAL AMOUNT                     850.000



Accounting and Reporting

6       For activities funded from the TFET grant a simple spreadsheet will be maintained to
record payments against contracts. This will be reconciled against the bank statement of the
designated account and monthly disbursement summaries. For State Budget financed activities,
payments will be processed and recorded in the Government accounting system, however
MNRMEP will need to maintain supplemental records so as to analyze expenditure by activity
and facilitate the preparation of a consolidated financial report. Again a simple spreadsheet
based system, given the low volume of transactions and contracts will suffice. In order for
payments under the State Budget to be made an appropriation will need to have been made based
on Parliamentaryapproval of the budget.

7.      A consolidated financial report will be prepared by MNRMEP every six months and
provided to the Bank within 45 days of the end of the period.

Auditing

8.      The constitution of Timor-Leste allots the function of external audit to the High
Administrative, Tax and Audit Court. As this institution remains to be created, the function of
external audit is for the time being assigned to the MOPF which discharges its responsibilities
through the contracting of external audit services. Given that the life of the project is expected to
be less than 18 months a single audit, at the end of the project, will be required. MNRMEP will
be responsible for preparationof financial statements of all project expenditures. The cost of the
audit services will be borne by the GoTL.          Although the Auditor will be recruited and
remunerated by Government the Bank will reserve the right to insist on a supplementary audit if

the quality and scope of audit services contracted by Government falls short of the required
standards.

Supervision Plan

9.     The overall rating for the program is Low and it is envisaged that supervision missions
would be required only on an annual basis. To minimize costs the missions would be planned to
coincide with financial management supervision of other programs in Timor-Leste.

                                  Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements

                            TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvestingproject


     A.      General

     1.      Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World
     Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
     "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants By World Bank Borrowers" dated May
     2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement which takes into consideration the
     provisions stipulated in the TFET Grant Agreement.             The various items u ~ d e rdifferent
     expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed under
     the project, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the; need for pre-
     qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
     Recipient and the World Bank in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated
     annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
     institutional capacity.

     2.      Procurement of Goods: A total of US$1,582,000 worth of goods would be procured
     under the proposed project. Goods procured under this project would include: (a) power plant,
     including civil works under a Turn Key contract; (b) distribution system, comlSrising 20 kV
     distribution system extension, step-down transformers, LV lines and household connections (the
     contract would be for supply of goods and installation);and (c) pre-paid meter system, including
     pre-paid meters, credit dispensing units and a system master station. Installation will be included
     in the contractfor the supply of the distribution system.
I
     3.      The power plant will include 2 duel fuel enginelgenerator sets, 1 gas engineygeneratorset,
     3 step-up transformers, metering and monitoring equipment, gas piping and gas flare, and other
     related goods. The civil works for the power plant include: (a) construction of the gas collection
     facility; (b) the construction of the power house; (c) construction of the fence; (d) installation of
     the diesel fuel storage tank; (e) lighting; (f) operatorroom; (g) toilet facility; and(111)construction
     of the access road.        The Turn Key contract includes design, supply, inhallation and
     commissioning of the power plant.

     4.      Goods packages will be procured through ICB and Shopping procedudes. All ICB
     procurement will be done using the Bank's latest SBD for Procurement of Goods and for Supply
     and Installation of Plant and Equipment.

     5.      Selection of Consultants: An estimated total of US$ 115,000 for consultmt services is
     envisaged under the proposed project. Consultant services procured under the project include,
     but may not be limited to: (a) project manager for 5 to 8 months (the project mknager will be
     employed as individual consultant and will be selected based on consultant qualifications); (b)
     consultant to supervise construction and commissioning of the power plant; (c) auditing
     consultant to conduct the end of project audit (the audit contract will be awarded in accordance
     with paragraphs 3.9 - 3.13 of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants By
     World Bank Borrowers"); (d) consultant for end of project survey; (e) consultants for the energy
     efficiency component; (f) consultants for training and operation optimization as far as not

included in the supply of goods contracts; and (g) consultant for the stimulation of productive
use and continued socialization.

6.      Consulting contracts, each estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, will be awarded
following the procedures of Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) or Quality Based
Selection (QBS). For consulting services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract under this project, the Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) would be
used for these contracts. The auditing consultant will be selected on a Single Source Selection
(SSS) basis. Selection of individual consultant will be done competitively and, subject to
meeting conditions in the Guidelines, may be done on a sole-source basis.

7.      Operating Costs: A small provision has been made for Incremental Operating Cost
(US$10,000). This is intended for reimbursement on the basis of a Statement of Expense for
traveling and lodging and other cost for which it is not possible or impractical to issue a contract.

B.      Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

8.     Procurement activities for the project will be carried out by the NDCS of the MNRMEP.
The NDCS will be supported by the Project Manager of the Gas Seep Harvesting Project and the
ESDP Advisor, contracted under the Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant
to support the preparation of the Energy Services Delivery Project. The Project Manager of the
Gas Seep Harvesting Project must have proven international qualifications and experience in
World Bank financed procurement. The ESDP Project Advisor has already been hired by
MNRMEP and has vast experiencein World Bank financed procurement.

9.     An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agency to implement procurement
actions for the project was carried out by Bisma Husen, the Bank Procurement Specialist in
March and September 2006.           The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for
implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for
procurement Officer and the Ministry's relevant central unit for administration and finance.
Final revision to the assessmentwas done in December 2006.

10.    Most of the issues1risks concerning the procurement component for implementation of
the project have been identified and include weak capacity of the implementing unit and the
marginally satisfactory procurement environment with. The corrective measures which have
been agreed are: (i) the project management team is supported in operationalprocurement and in
procurement capacity building by a Energy Service Delivery Project Advisor (ongoing project)
with strong experience and qualifications in Bank's procurement; (ii) Project Management
Advisor hired under the project shall be required to have experience and qualifications in
executing Bank's project and procurement; and (iii) all procurement will use Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents. Further, contracts will be subject to prior review and all contracts over
US$200,000 are required to be reviewed by the Government's Contract Assessment
Commission, adding to the internal control on the Government side. Based on the above risk
mitigating factors built into the project, the overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE.

C.     Procurement Plan

11.    The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation
that provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the
Recipient and the Project Team on March 1, 2007, and is reproduced below. The Plan is
available at the NDCS. It will also be available in the project's file and on the Bank's external
website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team quarterlyor
as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.

D.     Frequency of ProcurementSupervision

12.    In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from World Bank offices, the
capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended one procurement
supervision mission each year to visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions.

                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 1
                                    Details of the Procurement Arrangement InvolvingInternationalCompetition

    1.       Goods and Works and non consulting services.
        (a) List of contract Packaees which will be orocuredfollowine ICB and Direct contracting-:




I                                                                                                                                                                .,
                                                                                                                                   table.
              Distribution System                           ICB                                            To be                   Design, supply and install, based on
                                                                                                       reviewed by                 preliminaryschedule of quantities.Contract
                                                                                                            the                    price to be adjusted based on actual
                                                                                                        government                 quantities.Includes additional meteringto
                                                                                                             in                    monitorelectricity consumptionof
                                                                                                        consultation               differentsections.
                                                                                                          with the
                                                                                                           Bank
    3         Metering system              100,000          ICB               No              No           Prior       July, 1
                                                                                          I           I              1 2007
(*) Note: Turn Key contract includingdesign, supply of goods, installation and conzmissioning. The contract includes an estimated $100,000 worth of civil works, consisting
of access road, site preparation, gas collection structure, power plant building poor space to allow installation of 4 enginelgeneratorsets), fencing, lighting, operator room,
toilet facility,diesel storagetank, etc. The power plant will consist of 2 dual fuel engine/generatorsets and 1 gas engine/generatorset, each with its own step-up transformer
and metering/control unit. The power plant will further include a gas flare and gas flaring regulation system. Ifsubstantial cost savings can be obtained,'the bidders can bid
for one new dual fuel engine/generator set and one duel fuel conversion kit, to be installed by the bidder on an existing 150 kW Deutz diesel engine.


     (b)      All ICB Contracts estimated to cost above US$ 100,000 will be subject to prior review by the Bank. No Direct Contracting is expected
              under this project.

     2.       ConsultingServices.
         (a)      No ConsultingAssignmentswith short-list of international firms are expected under this project.
         (b)      Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$100,000 per contract and Single Source selection of consultants (firms) will be
                  subject to prior reviewby the Bank.
         (c)      Short lists composed entirelyof national consultants do not apply.

                           Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis

                       TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project

This annex provides supporting details of computations and the explanations of the assumptions
that underlie the economic and financial analysis of the project.

Economic Analysis:

A cost-benefit analysis was carried out to estimate the EIRR of the proposed project. The basis
for the estimate is to compare the incremental economic benefits of the project with its
incremental cost. Ths annex provides supporting details of computations and the explanations
of the assumptions that underlie the cost-benefit analysis of the project.

Economic Costs

The economic costs of the project include (a) investment costs of the demonstration power plant
and associated distribution system; (b) annual incremental O&M cost of the project; and (c) fuel
cost. All the costs exclude taxes, duties, financing costs and pricing contingency. Detailed
assumptions considered in the analyses are:

    The investment costs of the project are estimated at US$1.70 million (excluding price
    contingency).

    The annual incremental O&M costs are assumed to be US$O.O15/kWh.

    Diesel price at project site is assumed to be US$O.7/liter. It is assumed that the efficiency of
    the power plant is .0.35 liter of diesellkwh and 75% of the fuel will be gas from the seeps and
    25% is diesel;

    The total station use and line losses are seven percent of the gross generation.

    Economic life of power plant is 15 years and the economic life of distribution system is 30
    years.

Economic Benefits

The economic benefits were valued by the fuel (diesel) savings from harvesting gas from natural
gas seeps for electricity generation.

Economic internal rate of return

The base case ElRR is estimated at 14 percent with an NPV at 12 percent of US$ 346,750 as
shown in table A9.1.

FinancialAnalysis
Financial analysis shows that the proposed project can significantly reduce the fuel cost of the
project. If the State Budget support to the project is regarded as capital subsidy, the financial
internal rate of return will be around 11% indicating that the project is financially viable.
Financial analysis also shows that project's revenue is much larger than its operational cost.

                                               Table A9.1
                          Timor Leste Gas Seep HarvestingProject:Economic Analysis




                                              Table A 9.2
                          Timor Leste Gas Seep HarvestingProject: FinancialAnalysis

                                    Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues

                            'I'IMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project

     Brief Proiect Description

     The project basically involves the collection of natural gas from the Aliambata gas seeps for
     electrical power generation for the villages of Aliambata, Borolalo and Babulo. The distribution
     lines will also be interconnected with the Uatolari and Uatocarabau distribution systlems.

     The project comprises two major components:
~    Component A:Investment Component

             Construction of a dual-fuel power plant at Aliambata, using the gas from the seeps and
             diesel oil for power generation. The capacity of the proposed power plant will be 3x150
             kW. One of the generators would be a new gas generator set. The other two will be duel
             fuelled enginelgenerator sets each rated at about 150 kW. If there is a substantial cost
             saving, one of the dual fuel enginelgeneratorset will be existing unit operating on diesel
             oil and the proposed project would modify it to operate on both indigenous gas and
             diesel. The dual fuel enginelgenerator set will have engines that would automatically
             adjust the gasldiesel oil ratio, which would vary depending on gas quality, quantity
             available and local ambient conditions. However about 70-80 percent the fuel would
             come from gas. The 20-30 percent would come from diesel oil only to ensure the
             capability of the system to meet peak demand.

             Building of 20 kV distribution lines to connect the proposed power plant to the existing
             EDTL systems at Uatolari and Uatocarabau and to new consumers in the rural
             communities near the proposed power plant, including Aliarnbata, Babula and Borolalo.
             This connection would increase the availability of power supply at Uatulari and
             Uatucarabao from 6 hours to 24 hours per day. Overall, the gas-based power generators
             at Aliambata would supply electricity to approximately 1,000 households currently
             connected to the power system and about 2,000 new households as well a some small
             commercial customers.

             Testing of a system of revenue collection using cost effective prepaid metering system to
             ensure the financial sustainabilityof the project. The system would apply the standard
             tariffs that EDTL charges and, as in the case of the Dili system, consumers tvould receive
            prepaid meters, free of charge.       New customers also would pay EDTL standard
            connection charges, less the cost of the prepayment meter. A community awareness
             creation and consultation campaign will be undertaken during the implemehtationof the
            project based the public consultation carried out during the project preparaqion to ensure
            the proposed system can be implemented properly.

Component B: Technical Assistance

         To manage the implementation of the project, a qualified project manager will be
         recruited under the NDWEP of the MNRMEP (see Annex 6). The Project Manager will
         be funded from the Project Management and Support budget. Additional activities under
         this component are: continued socialization, training, audit and incremental operating
         expenses.

ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARD

Site Descriptions

The natural gas seeps are located approximately 1 krn from the village of Aliambata in the east
part of Timor-Leste, about 100 m from the main coastal road, on elevated land at the end of a
short track. The terrain is mountainous covered with bushes. There is no one living at the site,
with the nearestvillage being Aliarnbata. The land is owned by the local government.

The ground surrounding the gas seeps is bare as a result of gas emissions. Secondary forest
vegetation consisting mostly of teak tree (Tectona sp.) and Leucaena sp. lies within 10-15 m
upslope of the seeps. The seep area lies on sloping terrain, directly adjacent to an area of flat
landdownslope where vegetation is dominated by saplings of Leucaena sp. No fauna were seen
during the recent site visit although domesticbuffalo are known to be grazed in the area.

Potential Impacts and Risks and Mitigating Measures

The design, construction and operation of the gas collection and power generation and
distribution facilities are assessed to have minor and temporary negative environmental impacts
since these will be designed, constructed and operated according to international standards. This
is to also ensure personnel and occupationalsafety. These elements are discussed below.

Design Impacts and Measures

Collection Device and Flare. The gas collection structure will consist of a perimeter wall buried
to around 1.5 m below ground level with a fully sealed cover to ensure that methane is collected
with a minimum of oxygen      ( 0 2 )ingress to limit the risk of an explosive mixture. The permanent
gas collection system will cover an area of approximately 50 m2. An explosion vent in the cover
will ensure that the structure is not irreparably damaged should an explosion occur, and that the
risk to site personnel is minimized. The design of the entire gas collection system will ensure
that the risks to people and the environment are not significant.

The condensate that will be generated fiom the collection system and associated pipework will
be allowed to drain into the soil beneath the site while the flare tip will be located at least 2.5 m
above ground level behind a security fence at a distance of at least 10 m from the nearest
vegetation. This will ensure that people do not come into close contact with the stack and that
any potential heat or combustion gas effects on nearby vegetation are minimized.

     The API guidelines for flare stack design identify the need to consider radiant heat exposure of
     personnel. The flare will be suitably designed and of adequate height to prevent a hazard to
     workers or the public. The flare will also incorporate suitable systems and design features to
     prevent flashback and maintain ignition of the flame so that the risks to people and the
     environmentas a result of the location and operation of the flare will be minimal.

     Electrical Generation Facilities and Distribution Lines. The power generating plant will be
     established on a flat area immediately below the gas seep sparsely vegetated by saplings of
     Leucaena sp. and some species of shrubs common in dry areas. The equipment will be mounted
     on a concrete slab base and housed in a weather-proof structure. The electrical distribution
     system will follow the road along the coast from the generating plant to the villages with the
     cable being suspended on pole structures. This design is similar to existing systems which have
     avoided land ownership issues. The line will cross a river, the Sungai Bebui, with a single span
     and will therefore have no adverse effect. No adverse environmental effects are Anticipated in
     relation to the design of the electrical generation facilities and distribution line. There may be
     cutting andlor trimming of trees in some sections of the line but this will be avoided, where
     possible.
~    Construction Effects and MitigatingMeasures

     The key environmental impacts during construction primarily relates to vegetatioh disturbance
     andor clearance at the gas collection site prior to construction to establish the facilities, and
     along the proposed distribution line route; runoff of soils and concrete during construction
     related to minor earthworks required at the gas collection site and during pble structure
     installation;and temporary deterioration of air and water quality.
                                                                                           I

                                                                                           I




     Overall, the potential impacts are assessed to be minor and temporary since no majdr earthworks
     will be undertaken. Construction activities at the gas seep site will fall within the sparsely
     vegetated area below the burning gas seeps. Earthworks will probably be undertaken largely by
     hand and construction of the facility is expected to take no more than a few weeks. These will
     consist of excavating a 1.5 m deep trench around the perimeter of the seeps; the +stallation of
     power plant foundations and digging holes for the installation of pole structures tb support the
     power cables.                                                                         ,


     All fuels and lubricants stored on site, whether temporarily during construction of longer term
     for power plant use, will be held in appropriately sealed containers and stored in bunded areas.
     Engine-generatorunits will be installed such that spilled lubricants are contained and collected.
~    OperationalEffects and MitigatingMeasures

     The operational guidelines under which the gas will be collected and either used or flared will be
     dealt with in the site Health and Safety Plan. The key details in relation to design and operation
     as they relate to potential effects on the environment and the ways in which these risks /effects
     will be managed are described below.

Gas and Combustion Products. The development of the Aliambata gas seeps will involve the
combustion of the gas, resulting in combustion products as identified above. The potential
effects of these products are minimal due to the following: (i) the key combustion products, HzO
and Cozyare harmless; (ii) other trace elements and gases, if present, are at undetectable
concentrations; and (iii) the nearest local villages are located a considerable distance from the
site.

Gas has been discharged from the seeps for many years with no reported incidences of adverse
effects of nearby sensitive receptors such as people, vegetation or animals. The removal of
methane, a significantly more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, is considered to be a
major benefit of the proposed project.

One ton of methane has a Greenhouse Warming Potential equivalent to 21 tonnes of carbon
dioxide. Burning the methane from the Aliambata gas seeps may be conservativelyestimated to
have the effect of a net reduction of around 7,000 t/year of COzemission.

Visual Effects and Noise. The visual effect of the proposed gas collection and electrical
generation facilities is expected to be minimal since the facility will be approximately 100 m
from the main coastal road and will not be visible from this key viewpoint. It is small in scale
with the collection system itself being low to the ground.


The only components of the system of any height will be the generator set enclosure and the
flare. The power distribution lines suspended between pole structures will be visible from the
roadside. This view will be similar to other areas of Timor-Leste with similar distribution line
systems. Although the proposed generation plant is likely to emit a significant amount of noise,
this is expected to have a limited effect on the environment as the nearest village is located a
considerable distance (approximately 1 km) from the site, the surrounding dense vegetation
affords natural attenuation properties; and noisy equipment (engine generators, etc) will be
housed in sound-attenuatingenclosures to reduce the amount of noise generated.

Risk to Local Population and Personnel. The potential risks to personnel associated with the
operation of the plant are most likely to be limited to injury caused by combustion or explosion
of gases contained within the plant. There are no people living in close proximity to the site. In
the event of a significant gas consuming development on the site, security personnel would be
stationed at the site to both monitor site safety and to ensure that no unauthorized persons are
able to get close to the facility.

Operations and Maintenance. Operational criteria have been established based on engineering
judgment and operational experience as follows: (i) maximize gas extraction consistent with
minimizing the entrainment of air; and (ii) maintain fugitive gas emissions to substantially less
than.theLEL of methane.

The gas collection system is intended to operate continuously and the operational and
maintenance procedures for the facility will be minimal.

Plant Monitoring;and Recording

Monitoring the condition and performance of the gas collection and electrical generation
facilities will be necessary to avoid environmental damage and to provide safe working
conditions, largely by identifying the flammable hazard posed by methane and ensuring that the
explosive conditions are minimized. Monitoring of the structures and equipment at the site will
be performed regularly to identify any repair work needed to maintain safe working conditions
on the site.

Site personnel would be expected to maintain a manual of Plant Operating and Maintenance
Procedures, containing vendor's reference material, and operation and maintena~lceschedules
with formal checklists. They should develop formal checklists for operation and maintenance
associated with the flare stack, gas collection facility and power plant, and up-date these as
required.

Recording. Monitoring results and observationsshould be recorded either on a data logger or in
the operators' log. Senior Department personnel, in order to maintain a safe site and to identify
any changes in the performance of the gas delivery system, should evaluate the data collected
and incidents recorded. After each monitored event a team leader or manager should identify
any incident requiring immediate response in accordance with the contingency plan.

Site records should be maintained to document all operational activities at the site as well as the
performance of the gas resource, including gas .pressure,flowrate and composition.

A site plan will be maintained showing the 'as-built' layout of the gas collection sistem, power
plant and electrical equipment,and documenting all changes made to the facility.

InstitutionalArrangements

Electrical generationfacilities in the Viqueque Province are almost entirely under the ownership
and control of EDTL, who will also assume ownership of the new generation and distribution
facilities to be constructed under the project.        The roles and responsibilitie$ during the
constructionand operationalphases are as follows:

        SKM, the consultant hired by the government for Gas Seep Sampling and U'se of Natural
        Gas studies, has responsibility for the preliminary design and specification of safe gas
        collection, electrical generationand distributionfacilities;
        The contractors are responsible for environmental protection and implementing the EMF,
        as well as the safety of local villagers and personnel during construction;
         The NDWEP will monitor compliance of contractors to the EMP and the site Health and
        Safety Plan during construction;and
        The eventual owner of the facilities, EDTL, will assume responsibility for the ongoing
        protection of the local environment and also the safety of their operating staff and the
        local populationwhen the facilitiesare taken over from the main contractor.

SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS

Social Assessment

The borrower has submitted a social assessment report covering the six sucos of the Viqueque
district namely: Babulo, Afloicai, Uma Uain Leten, Waitame, Matahoi and Makadikiki. The
social assessment study covered both the electrified and un-electrified sucos and had the
followingscope:

        The socio economic profileof the potential beneficiaries of the project which showed that
        they are overwhelmingly poor;
        The level of affordability(using the income expenditure- approach) and willingness to pay
        for energy consumption at the time of survey in June 2005 showed that in general the
        potential beneficiaries are in agreement with the government's initial thoughts on the cost of
        metering and electric billingby consumption. Because the Aliambata Gas Seep is locatedin
        Batutu, the residents are seeking fiee services for a year. In exchange, they expressed
        willingness to voluntarily cut off or trim trees to allow the construction of transmission
        lines;
        The communities' expectations on the benefit of getting electric services for their
        households and areas of coordination the government should do so that they may better
        participatein the project implementation, operations and maintenance. Particularly, they
        hope to be hired for jobs that they can do.

Indigenous Peoples

There are no indigenous peoples in the project site and anywhere near it as described by the
World Bank Operational Policy4.10 as follows:

        Self identification as a memberof a distinctcultural group and recognition of-this identity
        by others.
        Collective attachment to geographically distinct habitat or ancestral territories; also
        includes those who have lost attachment due to forces severance;
        An indigenous language, often differentfrom the national language
        Presence of customary cultural, economic, social and political institution that is separate
        fiom that of dominant society.

Key informants from among Timor-Leste government officers, local World Bank staff, and
representatives of the NGO (TIDS), consistently revealed the absence of IPS not only in the
project site and its vicinity but probably in the whole country. Validation of this findings in the
site also revealed that the community affected by the project is homogenous and do not show the
presence of IPS. Readings on Timor-Leste's disadvantaged groups have no mention of
Indigenous peoples.

Involuntary Resettlement

The project shall not cause loss of shelter, land or access to livelihood opportunities, The land for
the construction of the dual power plant at Aliambata and the construction of the 20KV
distribution lines to connect the proposed power plant to the existing EDTL systems at Uatolari
and Uatocarabao and to new consumers in the rural communities of Aliambata, Babula and
Borolalo are public lands. The gas seep area is not inhabited and except for one plot with minor
crops, it is not used by the community. The distribution posts are small and will be laid out
along the present roadway which if at all may only require trimming of tall trees that the
community have expressed as their possible contribution to the project Valuable trees may be
avoided by locating the posts in areas where tall and valuable trees are not present as has been
done in past transmission line construction in Uatolari. If at all required during implementation,
only crop compensation policy and procedure may be needed. As good practice however, the
borrower has prepared and submitted a Resettlement Framework for this project. This has been
reviewed by the Bank and has been found in compliance to the OP 4.12.

The institutional arrangement for the project, this resettlement framework shall similarly follow
the evolving arrangement. A copy of this frameworkis as follows:

WSETTLEMENT FRAMEWORK

Definitions

Compensation means payment in cash or in kind for an asset to be acquired or affected by a
project at replacement cost.

Cut-off Date is the date prior to which the occupation or use of the project prea makes
residentshsers of the project area eligible to be categorized as affected persons. The cut-off
date coincides with the date of the census of affected persons within the project area
boundaries. Persons not covered in the census, because they were not residing, haying assets,
or deriving an income from the project area, are not eligible for compensation and other
entitlements.

Entitlement means a range of measures comprisingcompensation, income restoration support,
transfer assistance, income substitution, and relocation support which are due to affected
people, dependingon the naKe of their losses, to restore their economic and social base.

Project Authorities refer to Ministry of Natural Resources, Mineral and Energy Policy and its
EDTL

Displaced Persons @P) includes any person or persons, households, a firm,or private or
public institution who, in the context of acquisition of assets and change in land psage, as of
the cut-off date, on account of the execution of the project, or any of its subcomponents or part,
would have their:


    (a)  Standardof living adversely affected;



                                                 45

    (b)    Right, title, or interest in any house, land (including residential, commercial,
           agricultural and grazing land) or any other moveable or fixed assets acquired or
           possessed, in full or in part, permanently or temporarily adversely affected; or
    (c)    Business, occupation, places of work or residence or habitat adversely affected, with
           or without displacement.

DPs includes persons or affected household and consists of all members of a household
residing under one roof and operatingas a single economic unit, who are adversely affected by
a project or any of its components. For resettlement purposes, displaced persons will be
considered as members of displaced households.

Rehabilitation means assistance provided to DPs seriously affected due to the loss of
productive assets, incomes, employment or sources of living, to supplement payment of
compensation for acquired assets, in order to improve, or at least achieve full restoration of
living standardsand quality of life to pre-project level.

Relocation means the physical shifting of a DP from hisher pre-project place of residence,
place of work or business premises.

Replacement cost is the amount needed to replace an asset and is the value determined as
compensation for:

    i. Agricultural land the pre-project or pre-displacement, whichever is higher, market value
         of land of equal productive potential or use located in the vicinity of the affected land,
         plus the cost of preparing the land to levels similar to those of the affected land, plus the
         cost of any registration and transfer taxes;
    ii. Land in urban areas, it is the pre-displacement market value of land of equal size and use,
         with similar or improved public infrastructure facilities and services and located in the
         vicinity of the affected land, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes;
    iii. Houses and other related structures based on current market prices of materials,
         transportation of material to construction site, cost of labor and contractor's fee, and cost
         of any registration and transfer taxes. In determining replacement cost, depreciation of
         the assets and value of salvaged building materials are not taken into account and no
         deductions are made for the value of benefits to be derived from the project;
    iv. Crops, trees and other perennials based on current market value; and
    v. Other assets (i.e. income, cultural, aesthetic) based on replacement cost or cost of
        mitigating measures.

Resettlement means all measures taken to mitigate any and all adverse impacts of a project on
DPs property andlor livelihoods, including compensation, relocation (where relevant) and
rehabilitation as needed.

Vulnerable groups are distinct groups of people who might suffer disproportionately or face
the risk of being marginalized fiom the effects of resettlement and specifically include: (i)
female headed households with dependents; (ii) disabled household heads; (iii) households

falling under the generally accepted indicator for poverty; (iv) elderly households with no
means of support and landlessness;and (v) indigenousminorities.

The Project

A small gas seep utilization demonstration project at Aliambata of Timor-Leste is under
preparation. The objectives of the project are to (a) harvest natural gas, currently escaping into
the atmosphere fi-om gas seeps at Aliambata; and @) to the extent feasible, utilize the gas for
power generation to benefit local communities. The project is intended as a demonstration of
how the nearly 30 gas seeps in Timor-Leste can be exploited to benefit local communities from
indigenous energy resources for Timor-Leste.

The proposed project will provide low cost 24-hour electricity supply mainly to local
communitiescurrently supplied by the existing diesel engines 6-hour per day. It will also connect
three un-electrified small villages near the gas seep site to electricity. The project will comprise
of (a) installation of around 2x150 kW dual fuel (gasldiesel) generation sets and a gas
enginelgenerator set in the gas seep site for power generation; (b) construction of around 20 km
of 20 kV distribution lines along a public road to connect the generators to an existing small
power grid supplying consumers in Uatolari; and (c) construction of low voltage (4001230 V)
lines to electrify two small villagesalong the new 20 kV distribution lines.

Policy Objectives and Potential of Land Acquisition Impacts

This policy is developed in accordance with OP 4.12 of the World Bank on Involuntary
Resettlement. Objectives of the resettlement policy fi-amework will include tht following
elements:

    (1) Involuntaryresettlement shouldbe avoided or minimized through design efforts;
    (2) Where involuntary resettlement is unavoidable, resettlement activities should be
        conceived and executed as sustainable development programs, providing sufficient
        compensation, assistance and rehabilitation to the DPs so that they would be at least as
        well off as they would have been in the absenceof the project;
    (3) DPs will benefit fi-omthe project by maximizing number of families to be aonnected to
        distribution system and subsidize for vulnerable groups in connecting to project
                                                                                        I
        distributionnetwork;
    (4) Project stakeholders (including DPs) are consulted and given the opQortunity to
        participate, as practicable, in the design, implementation,and operation of the project;and
    (5) DPs should be assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihoods and standiu-dof living
       or at least to restorethem, in real terms, to pre-displacementlevels.

The compensationand entitlementpolicy will apply to all displacedpersons regardless of the total
number affected or the severity of impact. Particular attention is paid to the needs of vulnerable
groups among those displaced: especially those below the poverty line, the elderly, women and
children, and ethnic minorities.

A principle was agreed by the IDA project team and the Project Owner (EDTL of the Ministry of
Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy) of Timor-Leste that impact on building (either
partiallv or fullv) will be com~letelvavoided. Thus, impacts on land acquisition by the project
will be very minor, potentialof land acquisition impacts are initially identifiedas below.

    No.                      Subproject                    Potential impacts of land acquisition
     1.     Harvest natural gas, currentlyescapinginto Located on public land in Aliambata, no
            the atmosphere from gasseeps at              compensation for land is required.
            Aliambatasite                                However compensation for propertieson
                                                         land to individualsis required.
    2.      Constructionof around 20 krnof 20 kV         The route would be along with the
            distributionlines along a public road to     existingroad, only about 0.25 m2 of land
            connect the generators to an existingsmall   to be acquired for each tower base and tall
            power gridsupplyingconsumersin               trees would be cut for operating
            Uatolari                                     distribution system. No land acquisitionis
                                                         required.
    3.      Constructionof low voltage (4001230 V)       No land acquisitionis required.
            lines to electrify three small villagesalong
            the new 20 kV distribution lines.

Legal Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement

The Timor Government has Law No. 112003 on the Juridical Regime of Real Estate and No
19/2004 on the Rent of State Ownership, but there are no specific laws, guidelines concerning
the details of resettlementand compensation. According to usual practice, when land acquisition
required for the project development, concerned parties under direction of local authorities
(District, Sub- District, Suco and Land and Property Unit) will negotiate and reach with an
agreements on compensation rates and total compensation amount and compensation procedure1
mechanism.

The Timor Government also does not have any regulations on the protection of power
distribution system (e.g., requirements for safety of operating distribution networks).

Therefore, the general compensation principles for the project will be followed with
requirements of the World Bank on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) and as below.

       Project Affected Persons will be provided compensation for their lost land and other
       assets at full replacement values (in kind or in cash).
       In case of the temporary affected by the projects, there will be full compensated of the
       net loss of income for a period of project impact.
       The affected persons without any legal title or ownershipright to affected land or assets
       they occupy should be compensated and provide assistance to ensure they are not
       worse-off due to project.
       All previous claims and unresolved issues related to tenure status and ownership of land
       and other assets on each sub-project or components will be resolved before land
       acquisition.

        Negotiation and compensation processes should be cany out in a consultation and
        participatory manners between relevant parties and with Public Involvement.

CompensationStandards

The compensationstandards and valuation method for different types of assets have been based
on the replacement value principle and through process of participation, negotiation and
agreement between relevant parties (affected person, project management unit, local authorities
and informal leaders such as community leaders and local priest).



Commonly, project (gas seep site and distribution lines) will be developed in a public land;
therefore, no significant negative impacts are expected. However, land acquisition is required
for the project site in the gas seep of Aliambata. Although the location is located in public land
which is traditionally occupied by community or adat of aldeia Daralari and Beli, the
compensation of land for land or cash for land and other affected properties at replacement
costs. The compensation rate will be negotiated between farmers and project owner based on
the principle of replacement cost mentioned above.



There could be income losses fiom temporary land occupation or disturbances during project
construction. For such losses, compensation of lost income at replacement value kind cost of
restoring land into original conditions will be paid by the project owner. TQ minimize
temporary impacts, efforts will be made by the project owner to minimize the impacts of
temporary land occupation by timing the construction after harvesting or new plantihg seasons.



It was agreed that, impacts (either partially or fully) on building and other sub-structures will be
completely avoided. However, if a very special case is require, the compensation primiple is to
provide compensation at replacement value, which will include cash for lost structurks sufficient
to replace materials and labor to buildreplacement structures to an equivalentsize and 'standard.



The Government of Timor-Leste does not have any regulations for protecting power
distribution networks. Tall trees (coconut trees, fruit trees, wooden trees etc.) still remained
along the existing distribution lines, thus if the same condition will be applied to this project,
very small number of trees would be cut for the project construction and maintenance. In that
case, the general compensation principle is to provide replacementvalue to the affected people.

The local authorities, chief of sucos, suco councils, civil society, and informal leaders have
agreed that no compensation is required for economic trees and cash crops. The local
authorities and chief of sucos and suco councils will take the responsibility to deal with the
affected people before project implementation.

Criteria and Eligibilityfor Compensation

The compensation and rehabilitation will be provided for all affected persons under the following
conditions:

        if their land area or income source will be removeddue to land acquisitionof the project;
        if their houses (or residentialplots) will be demolished or partly damaged due to the land
        acquisition;
       if their other properties (crops, trees, and other facilities) or access to these properties will
       be removedor damaged due to land acquisitionor constructionof the project.

All displaced persons, regardless of their legal status, will be provided compensation and
rehabilitation based on the policies adopted by competent authorities of Timor-Leste. Lack of
legal paper of their customary rights of occupancy certificates shall not be an obstacle for
obtainingcompensationfor them.

InstitutionalArrangement

A. Central government:

   o Director of Oil and Gas & Energy, Ministryof Natural Resources, Mineral and Energy
       Policy, as decision maker of the project and as person that sign the Resettlement Policy
       Framework for Gas Seep Harvesting Project.
   o Onshore Energy Policy, Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources, RDTL, project
       manager Aliambata Gas Seep Project, person in charge of day-to-day activities of the
       project includingin dealing with compensationpayment to the affected persons.
   o Director of Land and Property or Land and Property Unit at District Level, institution
       that needed to consult if there are any disputes of land and property. This institutioncan
       involve in the negotiation and consultation process on land acquisition and
       compensation.

B. Local Government:

   o District Administrator (Viqueque), decision maker at district level and person that
       should be informed about the project.
   o Sub-district Administrator or OGL, Local Government Officer of Uatulari and
       Viqueque sub-districts, person that should be involved in the consultation process and
       compensation. Hisher role is as mediator of central government and suco or village
       level.
   o Sub-district police chief and Community Police Officer, person in charge of security
       aspect in sub-district and villagelevel.

Chief of Suco and Council of Suco. They have several functions in relation to the project
compensation. Firstly, as representation of village in dealing with the government. Secondly,
as mediator of the affected people and the project. Thdly, as witness of the process of
compensation payment.

D. Informal Leader includingChurch Leaders

The role of the informal leaders and the Church leaders in the village level is significant.
Therefore, their involvement in the consultation and as witness of the process of compensation
payment is needed.

ImplementationProcess

Based on current practice, the following steps will be made by the project owner and local
authoritiesin order to ensure the project resettlement policy framework is being complied.

Step 1-Preparation works: During project design, the staff of the project owner and local
authorities will be involved to see wherever the land acquisition impact can be avoided, mitigate
or minimize as much as possible as principles set forth above. Staff of project owner and official
of local authorities will participate in alignment survey and prepare a survey form regarding
potential impact on land acquisition.

Step 2- Awareness of compensation policy and negotiationon compensation costs: Based on a
final design of the project and its proposed implementation schedule, project owner and local
authorities identify, carry out impacts on land and other assets, introduce to the project affected
persons about the compensation principles and negotiate, reach an agreement with them on
compensation unit cost for potentially lost assets.

Step 3-Prepare an Inventow: The project as its characteristicswill cause a very minor impacts
on land acquisition and thus, only an inventory is proposed. Based on the project
implementation schedule, results of affected survey, negotiation and resettlement policy, the
project owner and its consultant prepare an inventory for the project. The inventory will
include:   (i) the scope of impacts (name and quantities of affected assets); (b) detailed
compensation rates for affected assets, (c) consultation and participation; and (k) cost and
budget.

Step 4- Compensation payment and monitoring: As soon as an inventory approved, the project
owner and local authorities pay compensation to the project affected persons with the
monitoring of independent monitors. Compensation payment (if required) has to be fully done
prior to any civil work start.

 Consultation and Participation

A draft project resettlement policy and an inventories policy will be consulted with local
authorities, affected villages and individuals. The comments and feedback from them will be
reviewed by project owner and considered in policy and inventories finalization.

DiscIosure Policy and Inventories to the Affected Persons

Two rounds of disclose will be done: (i) As soon as the draft project resettlement policy
developed by the project owner and reviewed by the project team of IDA, it will be disclosed
at public places (District, Sub-District and Suco offices) accessing to and chance to give
feedback from people and any key stakeholders; and (ii) After the project resettlement policy
framework and inventories are approved1cleared by relevant authorities of Timor- Leste, they
will be disclosed to the affected people and project local authorities . The public disclosure of
policy and inventories could also be carried out by holding public meeting, putting up notice in
the affected villages, or distributingresettlement information booklet to the affected people.

Reporting and Approval

The project without or with only minor impacts, only inventoryneeds to be prepared, which are
not required to submit to the WB for review. Instead, they could be reviewed and approved by
project owner and local authorities to ensure that resettlement policyframework is followed.

CompensationFunding

The cost of compensation(if required)will be included in the total projectcost. The project owner
will make sure that sufficient funding available to cover compensation for the project affected
persons.

                                                                1
Grievance Redress Mechanism

The affected persons will be given many opportunities to review the survey results and
compensationpoliciesduring the process of compensationplanning and implementation.In order to
resolve complaint effectively and timely, a grievance redress mechanism will be set up by local
authorities, project owner and then clearly inform to people in the project areas before the
compensationimplementation.

Monitoringand Evaluation

If land acquisitionor impact on other assets are required for the project, following the requirements
of the World Bank, during the project implementation, both internal and external resettlement
monitoring and evaluation exercises will be carried out in order to monitor resettlement
implementation and ensure all affected people are compensated adequately and their income and
livelihoodare restored after resettlementand rehabilitation.

The internal monitoring will be carried out by the project owner. Every quarter, the report will be
prepared and will provide detailed explanation on compensation progress, fund allocation, and
issues and problems as well as solutions in the implementation.

EXTERNALMONITORINGANDEVALUATION

An external resettlement monitoring and evaluation agency or individual consultant would be
selected to carry out external resettlement monitoring and evaluation. The selected institution or
consultant should have extensive experience in similar activities. The main objective is to see
whether the objective of compensation and resettlement is achieved; and to provide basic
assessment on compensation and resettlement implementation and restoration of livelihood for
the affected people. If require, Terms of Reference for independent monitoring will be developed
later by the project owner and review by the project team of IDA.

                       Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision

                      TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Hawesting project




                                                 Planned                Actual
PCN review                                     10/07/2004             12/20/2006
Initial PID to PIC                              10/12/2004            7/13/2006
Initial ISDS to PIC                             1011212004            12/08/2006
Appraisal                                      01/19/2007             12/20/2006
Negotiations                                    2/20/2007             0311012006
Board/RVPapproval                               3/28/2007
Planned date of effectiveness                   5/1/2007
Planneddate of mid-term review
Planned closing date                            6130/2010



Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:


Name                                               Title                     Unit
Leiping Wang .                 Task Team Leader                            EASTE
Bany Trembath                  Consultant                                  EASTE
Enno Heijndermans              Consultant                                  EASTE
Bisma Husen                    Procurement Specialist                      EAPCO
David M Chandler               Senior Financial Management Specialist      EAPCO
Joao Jose Augusto Gomes        Operations Officer                          EACDF
Josefo Tuyor                   Operations Officer (Environment)            EASRE
V. Florian S. Lazaro           Operations Officer                          EASSO
Norma Leon                     Senior Program Assistant                    EASTE
Melissa Ortega Sanchez         Procurement Assistant                       EASTE
Teri Velilla                   Program Assistant                           EASTE



Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
   1. Bankresources:         US$7,774.71
   2. Trust funds:           US$11,472.38
   3. Total:                 US$19,247.09

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
   1. Remainingcosts to approval:          US$44,725.29
   2. Estimatedannual supervisioncost: US$17,500

                    Annex 12: Documentsin the ProjectFile

                TIMOR-LES'TE: Gas Seep Harvesting project


1. Reporton GasSeep SamplingStudy, July 2005, SKM

2. Technical Study on Use of Natural Gas Seep- Project Report, 26, September2005,

   SKM;

3. CommunityConsultation and Survey on Use of Gas Seep at Aliambata for Power

   Generation.

                                         Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits

                                   TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project


                                                                                                                            Differencebetween
                                                                                                                            expected and actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US5 Millions                              disbursements

Project ID        Purpose                                                IDA                 GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.              Frm. Rev'd

                  Planning & Fin Mgt Capacity Building                                         0.00     0.00

                  TP-POWER SECTOR PRIORITY                                                     0.00     0.00
                  INVESTMENTS

                  TP-Third Agric.Rehabilitation Proj.                                          0.00     0.00

                  TP-Second Timor-LestePetroleum Project                                       0.00     0.00

                  TP-FUNDAMENTALSCHOOL                                                         0.00     0.00
                  QUALITY PROJECT

                  TP-SmallEnterprises Project I1                                               0.00     0.00

                  TP-2ND HEALTH SECTOR REHAB                                                   0.00     0.00

                                                      Total:     0.00     0.00      39.67      0.00     0.00     13.27      46.27      39.20




                                                            TIMOR-LESTE
                                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                     Held andDisbursed Portfolio
                                                       In Millionsof US Dollars


                                                                 Committed                                    Disbursed

                                                                IFC                                        IFC

       FY Approval  Company                        Loan       Equity      Quasi      Partic.   Loan       Equity       Quasi    Partic.




                                 Total portfolio:    0.00        0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00     -0.00       0.00




                                                                             Approvals Pending Commitment

                     FY Approval      Company                             Loan        Equity       Quasi        Partic.




                                           Total pending comrnilment:     0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00

                                        Annex 14: Country at a Glance

                        TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project




 STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                                                    :[I
                                           Ig8' lgg5                                       Growth o f capital and GDP (%)
 (%ofGDP)
                                                                               ::
Agriculture                                                      317
Industry                                                         14.9
                                                                                                                             I
  Manufactunng                                                    3.7
 Se~ices                                                  ..    53.7

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                            615
                                                                                                                             I
Generalgov't final consumption expnditure                        513
 Imporlsof goods andservices                                                                      -SGCF          --c--G$P




(average annualgrowth)
Agncukure
 hdustry
  Manufacturing
Services

Householdfinalconsumptionexpenditure           ..      -5.1       3.7
Generalgov't finalconsumptionexpenditure       ..      223      4 . 4
Grosscapitalformation                          ..       2.4      -8.5        143
bnporlsof goods andservices


Note:2005data arepreliminaryestimates.
This tablewasproduced from theDevelopmentEconomicsLDB database.

'The diamondsshowfourkeyindicatorsinthe country(inbold)compared withits income-groupaverage. ifdalaaremissing, thediamondwill

 PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE

 Domestic prices
 (% change)
 Consumerprices
ImplicitGDP deflator

 Government finance
 (% ofGDP, includescumntgrants)
Current revenue
Current budgetbalance
Overall surplusldeficit


TRADE

                                                                            Exportand import levels (US$mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports(fob)                                                          15
  Commodity1
  Commodity2
                                                                            10
  Manufactures
Total imports (cif)
  Food                                                                       5

  Fuel and energy
  Capitalgoods                                                               0

                                                                                99    00    01    02   03     04   [W
Export priceindex (2000=100)
Import priceindex (2000=100)                                                          Exports       BImports
Terms of trade (2000=100)


BALANCE of PAYMENTS

                                                                            Current accountbalanceto GDP (X)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                               50

Imports of goods and services
                                                                            40
Resourcebalance

                                                                            30
Net income
Net current transfers                                                       20

Current account balance
                                                                            I0

Financingitems (net)
                                                                            0
Changesin net reserves                                                         99     00    01  02    03      04 05

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millims)
Conversionrate (DEC, locaVUS$)


EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS

(US$ millions)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed
  IBRD
  IDA

Totaldebt service
  JBRD
  IDA

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants
  Official creditors
  Private creditors
  Foreigndirectinvestment(net inflows)
  Poilfdioequity(net inflows)

WorldBank program
  Commitments
  Disbursements
  Principal repayments
  Net flows
  Interest payments
  Net transfers

                           -            -

Note: This table was produced from theDevelopmentEconomics LDB database.

           Annex 15: Maps

TIMOR-LESTE: Gas Seep Harvesting project






