                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                        Report No: ICR2152



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-58262)



                                  ON A GRANT

                                    FROM THE

                    TRUST FUND FOR TIMOR-LESTE (TFET)

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$0.85 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE

                                     FOR THE

                       GAS SEEP HARVESTING PROJECT



                                   June 25, 2012




Timor-Leste, Papua New Guinea & the Pacific Islands
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                    Currency Unit = US$
                                                    US$1

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                        January 1 – December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank                         kV             kilo voltage
AND     Agencia Nacional de Desenvolvimento            kVA            kilovolt ampere
        (National Development Agency)
ASTAE   Asia Sustainable and Alternative Energy        kW             kilowatt
        Program
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                    kWh            kilowatt hour
DGCS    Directorate General for Corporate Services     LV             low voltage
DO      Development Objectives                         MCB            master circuit breaker
EDTL    Electricidade de Timor-Leste                   M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
EOI     Expression of Interest                         MNRMEP         Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals
                                                                      and Energy Policy
EOCK    Economic Opportunity Cost of Capital           MoF            Ministry of Finance
EMP     Environmental Management Plan                  MoI            Ministry of Infrastructure
FEP     Foreign Exchange Premium                       MS             Moderately Satisfactory
FM      Financial Management                           MTR            Mid-term review
FY      Fiscal Year                                    MU             Moderately Unsatisfactory
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                         MV             medium voltage
GEF     Global Environment Facility                    kW             megawatt
GoTL    Government of Timor-Leste                      NDWEP          National Directorate for Water and
                                                                      Electricity Policy
GSHP    Gas Seep Harvesting Project                    O&M            operations and maintenance
HU      Highly Unsatisfactory                          PAD            Project Appraisal document
ICB     International Competitive Bidding              PDO            Development Objectives
IDA     International Development Association          PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development
IFI     International Financial Institution            TA             Technical Assistance
IFR     Interim Financial Report                       TFET           Trust Fund for East Timor
IP      Implementation Progress                        TOR            Terms of Reference
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report


                                         Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                                       Country Director:    Ferid Belhaj
                                      Country Manager:      Luis F. Constantino
                                        Sector Director:    John A. Roome
                                       Sector Managers:     Charles M. Feinstein and Vijay Jagannathan
                                   Project Team Leader:     Joel J. Maweni
                                      ICR Team Leader:      Natsuko Toba
                                              TIMOR-LESTE
                                         Gas Seep Harvesting Project



                                                     CONTENTS
Data Sheet

     A.   Basic Information.…………………………………………………………………i
     B.   Key Dates……………………………………………………………………….....i
     C.   Ratings Summary ...……………………………………………………………….i
     D.   Sector and Theme Codes…………………………………………………...……..ii
     E.   Bank Staff…………………………………………………………………………ii
     F.   Results Framework Analysis ...………………………………………...…………ii
     G.   Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs………………………………...………..iv
     H.   Restructuring……………………………………………………….…………….iv
     I.   Disbursement Graph.………………………………………….…………………..v


1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3.    Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 20
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
6.    Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 26
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 27


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................. 29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................... 30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................... 33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................ 36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .............................................................................. 37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................... 38
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ......................................................................... 46


IBRD Map No. 35220
A. Basic Information
                                                                             Gas Seep Harvesting
Country:                  Timor-Leste              Project Name:
                                                                             project
Project ID:               P092055                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-58262
ICR Date:                 06/25/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:       SIL                      Borrower:                 TIMOR-LESTE
Original Total
                          USD 0.85M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 0.34M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           USD 0.85M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Infrastructure
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
      Process                 Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:           12/20/2006    Effectiveness:              05/01/2007          05/30/2007
Appraisal:                12/20/2006    Restructuring(s):           12/29/2009          12/29/2009
Approval:                 03/28/2007    Mid-term Review:
                                        Closing:                    12/31/2009          12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       High
Bank Performance:                                  Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings              Borrower                        Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:                   Unsatisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:




                                                   i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                   Rating
     Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                              Quality at Entry
                             Yes                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                   (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                            Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                               None
(Yes/No):                                               (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Highly Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                           Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                            5                       5
Oil and gas                                                                 30                      30
Power                                                                       65                      65


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                               33                     33
Rural services and infrastructure                                            67                     67

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:              Pamela Cox                               James W. Adams
Country Director:            Ferid Belhaj                             Xian Zhu
Sector Manager:              Charles M. Feinstein                     Junhui Wu
Project Team Leader:         Joel J. Maweni                           Leiping Wang
ICR Team Leader:             Natsuko Toba
ICR Primary Author:          Natsuko Toba

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the proposed project is to demonstrate the technical and economic
viability of harvesting seep gas from natural gas seeps to produce reliable and affordable power
for isolated rural communities in the south eastern part of Timor-Leste.




                                                       ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                 Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                   approval                             Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                 documents)                             Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Successfully commissioning of the demonstration power plant
Value
quantitative or   0.0 kW                       3X150 kW                              0.0 kW
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/30/2007                    12/31/2011                             12/31/2011
Comments          Planned installation and commissioning of three 150-kW generators at the site was
(incl. %          never carried out because the amount of available gas was insufficient when the
achievement)      contractor tested the gas availability during the construction of the power plant.
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of electricity generation from gas seeps
Value                                           More than 60% of
quantitative or   0.0%                          the electricity                        0%
Qualitative)                                    generation from gas
Date achieved     05/30/2007                    12/31/2011                             12/31/2011
Comments
                  Since the gas seep was not viable, no electricity could be generated from gas in the
(incl. %
                  project site.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Reliability improvements for existing customers
                                                 500 existing                         700 existing
Value                                            consumers have                       consumers and new
                  6-hour electricity supply for
quantitative or                                  more than 6-hour                     610 consumers have
                  everyday.
Qualitative)                                     electricity supply                   six hour electricity
                                                 everyday                             supply everyday
Date achieved     05/30/2007                     12/31/2011                           12/31/2011
Comments          With improvements in the distribution system and the use of diesel generators, the
(incl. %          target was exceeded despite the failure of gas seep development. The original baseline
achievement)      at appraisal incorrectly stated a six-hour supply every two days (in fact everyday)




                                                    iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                           Revised Target
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                                    Values
                                                documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Component 1: Investment Component
                                           Award of turn-key                    Contract for gas seep
                                           contract for gas seep                harvesting and
                                           harvesting and                       generation was made
Value
                                           generation by July                   in August 31, 2010;
(quantitative     None
                                           2007; Award of                       Award of Contract
or Qualitative)
                                           turn-key contract for                for distribution
                                           distribution system                  system was made in
                                           by July 2007                         August 18, 2009
Date achieved     05/30/2007               07/31/2007                           08/31/2010
Comments
                  This component substantially delayed due to procurement problems and low cost
(incl. %
                  estimates.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Component 2: Technical; Assistance
Value
                                              Award of contract in                  Award of contract in
(quantitative     None
                                              April. 2007                           15 August 2008
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/30/2007                  04/30/2007                            08/15/2008
Comments
                  The contract of project manager ended in August 15 2009 but his contract was not
(incl. %
                  renewed. No other activities were implemented.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                 Actual Disbursements
 No.                                DO                             IP
          Archived                                                                    (USD millions)
  1      06/05/2008       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                0.00
  2      06/29/2009       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                0.15
  3      01/05/2010       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                0.15
  4      04/18/2011       Highly Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      0.07


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                    iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1       Context at Appraisal

1.      Timor-Leste was the world‘s newest and post-conflict country and was still recovering
from severe destruction of infrastructure. It just emerged from a prolonged period of struggle for
independence in 2002. It was among the poorest countries in the world with a per capita gross
domestic product (GDP) of under US$400. An overall electrification rate was around 22 percent.
The electrification rate in Dili was about 85 percent while in the district capitals and rural areas,
it was only 18 percent and 5 percent respectively. Power generation entirely depended on
imported diesel oil, resulting in one of the most costly electricity supplies in the world. The high
cost and limited access to electric power were key constraints to economic growth and poverty
alleviation.

2.      Before the project became effective in May 2007, the 2006 crisis began as a conflict
within the military of Timor Leste over discrimination, and expanded to a coup attempt and
general violence throughout the country, centered in the capital Dili. 1 The crisis prompted a
military intervention by other countries and led to the resignation of the Prime Minister. While
the primary underlying causes of the 2006 violence were political and institutional, discontent
associated with poverty and the lack of jobs also contributed. 2

3.      The Government of Timor-Leste (GoTL) established four key principles to guide the
development of the power sector: (i) a sound administrative, legal, and regulatory framework;
(ii) access to electricity by the vast majority of the population; (iii) replacement of imported
diesel fuel, the main fuel for power generation, with domestic cheaper domestic alternative; and
(iv) consumer-charge for the electricity services but certain groups of consumers provided with
targeted subsidies.

4.      Fuel imports for the power sector alone placed a burden of more than US$10 million per
year on the national budget. Potential main domestic energy alternatives included a large
hydropower project or development of onshore oil and gas fields, which would require
significant financial commitments, establishment of special legal and regulatory arrangements,
and longer term planning and preparation. However, 30 potentially viable gas seeps and some
other renewable resources had been identified to be developed in the short term and on a smaller
scale. Generating electricity from harvested seep gas offered the potential of cheaper power for
rural population centers close to the gas seeps, and would have the added benefit of reducing
Timor-Leste‘s emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas (GHG).

5.      In its Sector Investment Program for Power Sector (SIPPS) in April 2005, the GoTL
listed the proposed Gas Seep Harvesting Project (GSHP) as one of the country‘s priority
investments in the medium term. Replication potential of demonstration project was high as at
least 30 gas seeps spread throughout the country.



1
    United Nations (2006)
2
    Asian Development Bank (2007).

                                                 1
6.     A strong rationale for Bank involvement arose from its role in the power sector
development and the priorities for its assistance to Timor-Leste. The Bank‘s FY06-08 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) included the delivery of sustainable key services for growth and
development as one of its three pillars for its lending and advisory programs. This project was
included in the CAS because of the key role of access to energy services for growth and poverty
reduction, the scarce development partners in the energy sector, and the Bank‘s extensive
experience in providing rural electricity services using indigenous least cost energy resources.

1.2       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.     The development objective of the proposed project was to demonstrate the technical and
economic viability of harvesting seep gas from natural gas seeps to produce reliable and
affordable power for isolated rural communities in the south eastern part of Timor-Leste.

Key performance indicators

         Successful commissioning and operation of the demonstration power plant;
         At least 60% of electricity generated from low-cost gas from the seeps; and
         Improvements of reliability of electricity supply.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

8.        The PDOs and the key performance indicators were not revised.

Note: On page 4 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), a key performance indicator related
to fuel cost is mistakenly used in place of percent of electricity generated by gas (―Reduction of
fuel cost by at least 50 percent comparing with diesel based power generation with similar
technology‖). In all other sections, including the Grant Agreement, the correct key performance
indicator is used (60 percent of electricity generate from gas).

1.4       Main Beneficiaries

9.      The project was expected to provide direct benefit to communities living in six villages
(sucos) in Viqueque Districts. The total number of households expected to benefit from the
project was around 3,000 including approximately 1,000 existing customers of Electricidade de
Timor-Leste (EDTL).

1.5       Original Components (as approved)

10.    This project was cofinanced by the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) and the
Government of Timor Leste (GoTL). It consisted of an Investment Component (US$1,582,000)
and a Technical Assistance Component (US$120,000).

11.    The investment components included three main subcomponents: (i) construction of a
dual-fuel power plant at Aliambata, using the gas from the seeps and diesel oil for power

                                                  2
generation (US$485,000 TFET funded); (ii) building of 20 kV distribution lines to connect the
proposed power plant to the existing EDTL systems at Uatolari and Uatocarabau and to new
consumers in the rural communities near the proposed power plant, including Aliambata, Babula
and Borolalo (US$997,000 GoTL funded); and (iii) introducing a system of revenue collection
using cost effective metering system, such as prepaid metering system, to ensure the financial
sustainability of the project (US$100,000 TFET funded).

12.     The TA component included hiring a Project Manager, continued socialization, training,
incremental operating expenses and audit. A more detailed description of expected and actual
project outputs by component is presented in Annex 2.

1.6    Revised Components

13.     Although the project was not formally revised, all TFET financed components were
either cancelled or incomplete. These were explained elsewhere in the ICR. The GoTL funded
distribution system was completed.

1.7    Other Significant Changes

14.     In August 2007, three months after effectiveness, the project implementation
responsibilities shifted from the Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy
(MNRMEP) to the newly created the Ministry of Infrastructure (MoI) as the executing agency.
Accordingly, the designated implementing agency was changed from MNRMEP‘s National
Directorate for Water and Electricity Policy (NDWEP) to EDTL, which was also expected to
operate and manage the project activities after the end of the project. Amendment of the Grant
Agreement was not required because NDWEP was considered a ―successor‖ to MNRMEP
within the terms of the agreement.

15.      The closing date was extended by two years on December 29, 2009, mainly due to the
early delays in procurement of key contracts. At the time of the extension, the implementation
progress and the PDO were considered modesty satisfactory partly because the gas seeps were
still thought to be viable.

16.     The gas test revealed an inadequate quantity of gas, which led to the project‘s closure. In
December 2010, the Bank learned that the results of the contractor‘s gas sampling tests for the
Aliambata power plants showed only10-12kW capacity of gas fired power plant could be
installed based on the quantity of gas available. This compared to 150kW gas engine and 150kW
X 2 dual fuel engine power plants in the original designs. A potential alternative plan using fuels
without gas would not be consistent with the objective of the project to pilot the use of gas seeps.
Further, any new alternative would probably require more time to prepare, appraise and
implement than the remaining project life. Although the Bank requested the MoI and EDTL to
conduct an additional test to validate the result, MoI and EDTL decided to terminate the power
generation contract. Through the distribution system under the project, the project areas will be
connected to the national power system and thus they were not interested in pushing this project
further. Accordingly, on January 14, 2011, the Bank confirmed the process for orderly closure of
the project.

                                                 3
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.     Except the feasibility study, the background analysis was sound. The lessons
incorporated into the project focused mainly on the importance of consumption-based revenue
collection to ensure the sustainability of the investments. This included identification of
economical and appropriate systems, such as pre-payment systems, and the importance of
consultation with local communities and socialization of the concept of paying for services that
previously were free. An extensive consultation and public awareness campaign was carried out
during preparation. No lesson learned from other similar gas seep projects were noted in the
PAD, the reasons for which could be no such experiences globally existed, but lots of relevant
lessons learned and risk mitigation measures could be utilized from the gas and oil industry in
general.

18.     In ensuring the sufficient amount of seepage gas, the project design did not address issues
associated with the simplified gas tests nor took appropriate measures, which are known and
practiced in the general gas and oil industry. The gas reservoirs are complex structures and are
often inter-linked. When a gas accumulation is drilled by a well, it is possible to establish the
gas volume connected to that well by a production test of sufficient duration with accurate flow
rate and pressure measurement equipment. No such test has been performed in the feasibility
study because: i) it is unknown how the gas travelled from the original accumulation to the test
facility and thus the flow physics are unknown; ii) gas was collected at a small part of the gas
seep only; and iii) gas was collected at atmospheric pressures. Thus, it is unknown the size
and/or location of the gas accumulation. The gas accumulation could even have been produced
from another location. When a gas accumulation is produced, the gas flow rate is proportionally
related to the pressure drop between the reservoir and the surface. As gas is produced from the
reservoir this pressure drop will decrease, the flow rate will therefore decline with time. The
speed of the decline is determined by the volume of gas connected to the well and the flow
resistance from reservoir to well. A decline of 90 percent of the flow rate over five years is very
well possible. Typically, a gas production operation will continuously drill new production wells
to maintain the production capacity. Thus, since the reservoir connected to the identified gas
seeps could be exhausted, it would have been necessary to tap another part of the reservoir or a
different reservoir to maintain adequate flow rate, but the project design did not include such
provision.

19.     The overall project design, the objectives and components were highly relevant to the
sectoral and development priorities of Timor-Leste and the needs of the direct beneficiary
population. The gas seep harvest strategy was an innovative approach for making a low-cost,
medium-term contribution to solving the country‘s critical energy needs, lowering electricity
costs from diesel generators, and providing electricity services to poor households in rural
communities. However, cost estimates were substantially lower than needed to carry out the
planned investments, and contributed to cost overruns and delays in procurement of key
contracts.



                                                4
20.     The institutional and implementation arrangements included activities to help strengthen
the capacity of the government institutions created as the new country emerged from a prolonged
period of civil conflict. However, as discussed in the risk section below, arrangements for
financial management, procurement, and other aspects of implementation were based on the
assumption of a fairly straightforward, 18-month project, and overestimated the capacity of the
implementing agency.

21.   The scale, location, and nature of the physical investments involved only minor and
temporary environmental and social impacts. The safeguard procedures, plans, and mitigation
measures were more robust than necessary, but without being onerous or unwieldy.

22.      The project overall risk was rated as substantial but mitigation measures were inadequate.
The risk of lower gas yields than expected was rated as modest. Its mitigation measure was a
technical feasibility study. This risk was actually crucial and brought the project to close. Even if
the probability of this risk was considered low, the impact, should the risk occur, was so high
that stronger confirmation of this critical project assumption should have been made during
preparation. Low implementation capacity of the government for the investment component was
rated as substantial risk. The mitigation measures were hiring a qualified project manager and
using ―turn-key‖ contracts for the investment components. However, the project manager was in
place only for 180 days and less than one year from August 2008 to April 2009 with sporadic
attendance. Weak implementation capacity for the technical assistance (TA) component was not
identified as a risk, but clearly became a shortcoming in implementation since no other TA
activities than the project manager were actually implemented. Higher bidding prices than
expected were also identified as substantial risk. Mitigations measures were to take the high end
investment cost estimates and 10 percent price contingency and to develop bidding documents
for distribution system to allow flexibility of scaling down the project scope. However, the actual
lowest evaluated responsive bid for the generation package contract more than doubled the
appraisal estimate. Also, the project management and TA cost were much higher than estimated.
These resulted in the project cost overrun of US$650,000 by October 2010 if all the project
activities were to be successfully implemented except the cancelled prepaid metering component.

23.     The financial management was inadequately designed. The PAD required that a
consolidated financial report to be prepared by the MoI every six months and provided to the
Bank within 45 days of the end of the period. This requirement should be normally included in
the Grant Agreement, but was not included. No report has been provided to the Bank. According
to the PAD, given that the original life of the project implementation was expected to be less
than 18 months, a single audit, at the end of the project, was required. The GoTL had, at project
appraisal, already contracted an acceptable auditor for the audit of all Bank administered projects
and the cost of the audit services would be borne by the GoTL. However, the Bank reserved the
right to insist on a supplementary audit if the quality and scope of audit services contracted by
the GoTL falls short of the required standards. This right has limitations since the audit will be
undertaken after the project‘s closing date and thus no TFET funding will be available for the
supplementary audit. Moreover, the TFET Grant Agreement, signed on May 30, 2011, states that
the grant closing date is December, 2009, indicating the original project life is 31 months, not 18
months. As the project closing date was extended to December 31, 2011, the actual project life is
55 months for a single audit.

                                                 5
24.     During the appraisal, major procurement risks for implementation of the project
concerned the capacity of the implementing unit and the procurement environment. The
procurement volume under this project was expected to be limited. The corrective measures
included (i) the project management team supported in operational procurement and in
procurement capacity building by an Energy Service Delivery Project (ESDP) Advisor (ongoing
project); (ii) Project Management Advisor hired under the project who has experience and
qualifications in Bank‘s project and procurement; and (iii) all procurement to use Bank‘s
Standard Bidding Documents. Based on the above risk mitigating factors built into the project,
the overall project risk for procurement was assessed as average. However, the ESDP Advisor‘s
contract was May 16 - June 21, 2007, and the support to GSHP was not included in his terms of
reference (TOR). The ESDP Advisor was never asked to help the GSHP. Although the project
became effective in May 2007, a project manager was hired by Directorate General for
Corporate Services (DGCS) only in August 2008 but the contract was not renewed in April 2009.
Also, the project management advisor was not included in the consultant list in the TA
component. Using the Bank standard bidding documents did not necessarily help the
procurements issues either.

25.     An actual readiness of the project at the appraisal was low. At appraisal, technical
specifications had been prepared for the entire project and the procurement was expected to
commence shortly. In reality, for a pilot project in a newly independent, post conflict and small
country, more scrutinized assessment of technical feasibility study and cost estimates should
have conducted, and full support to the procurement could have been included in the design.

2.2    Implementation

26.     The Government‘s interest in the project was diminished due to the subsequent election
after the project became effective, the oil development and its export revenue and the nationwide
power development plan with a total generating capacity of 250MW (Hera and Betano) in which
includes a construction of Viqueque sub-station (total of nine sub-stations all over the country)
and the transmission line linking Viqueque sub-station to Aliambata area. Since the project areas
are expected to be linked to the national transmission line and receive power supply from Hera
and/or Betano power plants, Alimabata was doomed to become obsolete within a year or two.
The lack of interest and problems of conflict of jurisdiction between ministries and state
secretaries, which emerged under the new Government after the election, led to no ownership of
the project (please see Section 5.2 Borrower Performance, (a) Government Performance).

27.     The project had no full time manager and relied on external procurement consultants.
Despite that the project became effective in May 2007; a lack of procurement capacity in the
MoI and external factors delayed the implementation until July 2008. The external factors
included changes in the GoTL and the management contractor of the EDTL and unrest and
security concerns linked to the state of siege in place in early 2008. Consequently, the Bank team
agreed with the GoTL and Asian Development Bank (ADB) that the ADB consultants for the
Infrastructure Project Management Technical Assistance Project would assist the GoTL in the
procurement activities for the project. Under the grant conditions and covenants, MoI was
expected to maintain until at least the completion of the construction of the project, a project
manager supported part time by a staff member of the EDTL. The project manager was

                                                6
budgeted for only 180 days with sporadic presence in Timor Leste (originally it was only five
months contract) for a less than one year contract period of August 2008 – April 2009, despite
the original project life of more than two years, i.e., May 30, 2007 – December 2009. This
resulted in significant procurement delays and problems, such as technical specifications in
prepaid metering systems and bidding process and evaluations. Also, lack of communications
between the project manager and MoI‘s procurement team contributed to these delays. The
expression of interest (EOI) to recruit the new project manager was published by October, 2010.
The EDTL assigned three engineers as counterpart to the expected project manager and
appointed one of them to act as project manager. Eventually, due to the result of gas test, the
project manager was never recruited. Without a project manager, it was difficult for the Bank
team to manage the project and communicate regularly with the client and thus mostly had to
rely on the MoI‘s ADB-financed consultants.

28.     The prepayment meter component was dropped, which affected sustainability. Due to a
combination of non- responsive bids, delays in rebidding, difficulty finding a solution that
complied with Bank procurement guidelines, and the approaching closing date of the TFET
grant, the prepayment meter subcomponent was never carried out. Given the limited time
available, instead of TFET grant, the EDTL agreed to seek funding in the GoTL‘s fiscal year
(FY) 2011 budget for installing the prepayment meters. However, the budget was not allocated
for the prepayment meters. Accordingly, the EDTL has been installing master circuit breakers
(MCB) or conventional meters, majority of which are MCB, charging US$10 per installation and
connection. The consumers are getting electricity free of charge. This affects the sustainability
of the electricity sector. The portion of TEFT grant originally allocated for prepayment meter
was decided to be used for the power plant construction, which required more funding than
originally estimated.

29.     The project cost was grossly underestimated and the project needed restructuring
including additional financing and reallocation of funds. The actual total project cost estimate
was about one third higher than the original estimate. The higher costs were due to substantially
increased costs for the generation package contract, which was the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder at US$1.05 million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$0.49 million and to
increased project management costs. An independent bid evaluation review confirmed that the
specifications for the bid package and the recommendations of the Bid Evaluation Committee for
the award were compliant with the original project objectives and that the bid invitation,
evaluation and recommendation for award were in accordance with the Bank‘s procurement
guidelines. The original cost estimate was for 450kVA plant capacity. The actual contract cost
per kW installed was US$2,800 compared favorably with international averages of
US$2,600/kW installed for diesel/gas based power plants, especially given that this was a very
small pilot plant in a remote location without cost advantages of scale. The original cost estimate
of US$1,350 /kW was clearly underestimated. This affected not only the procurement process,
but also the project efficiency. After the cost overrun became apparent, the GoTL‘s Minister for
Finance, in a letter dated August 6, 2009, requested the Bank for additional TFET financing to
cover a financing gap and grant closing date extension until December 31, 2011. Only the grant
closing date extension was approved. The additional financing was pending due to the ―wait and
see‖ approach taken by the Bank with regards to ownership and client responsiveness, and
eventually was never materialized due to the result of gas test.

                                                7
30.     The gas test result led to the project closure. After the signing of the contract for the
supply and installation of the Aliambata power generation station on August 31, 2010, in
December 2010, the MoI informed the Bank that the contractor‘s sampling tests revealed a
dramatically lower amount of gas from the seep than was found in the original tests in 2005, and
was insufficient for the planned power generation. The Bank requested additional testing to
confirm these results, but none were carried out. With limited time before the closing date, and
other larger power projects already underway, MoI‘s interest in additional studies of gas seep
viability was low, and no alternative plan had been developed at closing.

31.     A mid-term review (MTR) was not conducted. The MTR date was not in the PAD on
February 28, 2007, expected for a short project. But it was noted in the first Implementation
Status and Results Report (ISR) on June 5, 2008. The scheduled MTR date of March 31, 2009
appears late for the original project life from May 30, 2007 to December 31, 2009. This is
because the implementation started late in July 2008. However, the MTR was not conducted as
scheduled. The Bank team could not find the appropriate timing of the MTR and instead
requested MoI to submit an MTR report to the Bank. The report never arrived at the Bank.
However, the supervision missions were quite detailed enough and the problems besetting the
project were well known. Thus, an MTR to identify or address them would not have required.

32.     Of the project‘s four implementation status and results reports (ISRs), only one ISR in
January 5, 2010 rated the project not at risk. During the project life of May 30, 2007 – December
31, 2011, ISRs have completed four times, June 5, 2008, June 29, 2009, January 5, 2010, and
April 18, 2011. The project did not fall into problem status until the final ISR in 2011, after the
gas seep was determined to be unviable leading to the project closure since no alternative plan
was realistically available. From the first ISR in 2008, the project was at-risk (potential problem
project), mainly due to moderately unsatisfactory procurement performance combined with
country risk flags independent of the project. Actions were taken to improve procurement, which
eventually allowed for the (delayed) award of contracts for the main investment and TA
contracts, but the procurement continued to be an obstacle to successful completion of the
prepaid metering investments and other activities.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design

33.     Regarding the M&E design, three key outcome indicators were straightforward, logically
linked to project objectives, measureable, attributable to the project despite some errors. The
M&E arrangements were within the implementing agency‘s capacity. As mentioned in Section
1.3, one of the indicators was misstated on page 4 of the PAD (as the cost of electricity), but the
project documents and agreements made clear that percentage generation from gas was the
intended indicator. The baseline for service reliability was incorrect; rather than existing
customers having only six hours of electricity every two days, they had six hours per day, which
was the original target in the PAD. An additional indicator for revenue collection and cost
recovery would have strengthened the indicators by capturing another key aspect of the
government‘s sectoral goals (though not explicitly stated in the PDO), as well as the outcome
related to the metering subcomponent, and an important measure of improvements in financial
sustainability of the sector.

                                                8
34.    The intermediate indicators measured milestones in the procurement process rather than
secondary or intermediate outputs or outcomes from the components. As such, they constituted
more of a record of the implementation schedule and could have been part of the project
implementation plan rather than the results framework. Other options for intermediate indicators
could have included kilometers of new transmission lines installed (or stages in implementation
of the distribution system), the number of new connections, prepayment meters installed,
revenue collected, percentage of costs recovered, generation cost per kW, and such. Ultimately,
due to the insufficient seep gas, and lack of prepayment meters, these indicators were for the
most part not relevant.

Implementation

35.     The M&E system was partially implemented without quarterly progress reports that were
included in the Grant Agreement. Rather than providing the quarterly progress reports, EDTL
prepared and submitted contract reports to the MoI, not the Bank, whenever there was a contract.
Although the implementation has been slow and there were only a few contracts, the quarterly
progress reports would have improved monitoring of project management, and perhaps allowed
for earlier and more effective intervention to resolve procurement problems , but did not progress
toward the project objectives per se since the intermediate indicators were just contracts. Apart
from the intermediate indicators of progress on the procurement processes for the major
contracts, the only activity that had monitorable progress was the distribution component.

Utilization

36.     The design and implementation of the M&E provided little useful information about
progress toward the project objectives that could be meaningfully utilized and in fact were
actually hardly utilized. While more regular reporting of routine project implementation would
have helped the Bank team and MoI to better monitor the status and performance of
procurement, contracts and outputs, the main problems were well known despite the lack of
regular quarterly progress reports. More specific achievements of procurement milestones and
clear and budgeted assignment of responsibilities could have helped keep critical procurement on
track, but this is more related to implementation performance than monitoring of progress toward
objectives. Including indicators related to environmental and social safeguards would have been
helpful and utilized, as lack of these indicators contributed to revisions of the TOR for the
project manager and the contracts for the power generation component to include these matters.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social and Environmental Safeguards

37.     The only safeguard triggered was OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment). Although a
detailed Resettlement Framework was prepared for the project, the involuntary resettlement
safeguard (4.12) was not triggered. The framework created as a good practice, precautionary
measure to handle minor compensations for any unanticipated, indirect impacts such as removal
of trees along the transmission line right-of-way, or compensation for crops grown in the right-
of-way.

                                                9
38.     MNRMEP and later MoI did not prepare a site health and safety manual for construction
and operation of the project, which however became unnecessary as the power plant was
cancelled. The TOR for the new project manager was revised to include his/her responsibility on
social and environmental safeguards matters, though the new manager was never hired. The
civil works and goods contract contained provisions on health and safety and noise and emission
standards for the generators. The contract specifically required a Project Quality Plan and
Environmental Control Plan to be submitted for approval by the project manager. Due to the
unfavorable results of the gas test, the contractor did not submit these plans. Similarly, the
addendum incorporating health, safety, and security plan in the civil works contract was not
incorporated in the existing contract.

39.     The project involved minimal civil works3 from the time the contract for power plants
became effective in September 2010 and was terminated on March 17, 2011. All the works were
undertaken on government land and did not involve acquisition of private properties. The
contactor financed the adat or customary ceremony that inaugurated the installation of the 400
kVA power plant in Aliambata. The 400kVA genset is a silent type generator, funded by the
GoTL to replace the proposed power plant to meet extensive demands from the local community.
The plant is used as back-up because the poor road conditions make it difficult to transport diesel
fuel, especially in the rainy season, to Aliambata. Electricity to existing and new customers in
the service area is supplied by a 1 MW plant in Uatolari system. There is a plan to transfer within
the next four months the 400kVA genset to Uatolari which would allow parallel operation with
the 1 MW unit, thereby increasing electricity service from six to 12 hours. Further civil works in
Aliambata such as security fencing is not deemed necessary. As the gas seep was not found to be
feasible, further implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is also
unnecessary.

40.     Construction of 20kV distribution lines has followed the Bank's Guidelines and there are
no significant issues. The requirements of the Resettlement Policy Framework have been
followed and the communities were properly consulted and their consent received. The
contractor implemented a distribution line which connected 610 households to the 400kVA
genset housed in Aliambata. The distribution line necessitated a two-meter wide corridor along
one side of the existing rough road. The EDTL obtained the voluntary consent of villagers to cut
trees on this corridor, set back fences, and remove obstacles. In exchange, the EDTL connected
and continues to provide free electricity to structures within 30 meters of the distribution
corridor. The EDTL has collected connection and conventional meter or MCB fee worth US$10
from 655 households and has requests from suco chiefs to connect 243 more. The contractor
compensated in kind (cement and roofing materials) damages wrought by the company‘s agents
on two structures. Furthermore, their subcontractors also employed local labor in measuring and
staking of the distribution system, clearing of cut trees, household connections, and site clearance
for the powerhouse.

41.    Under the TA component, the socialization, or stakeholder consultation was designed to
be organized by the MNRMEP (now MoI), including government officials, district parliament
members, and experts. The grant allocation included US$5,000 to support communication with


3
    The civil works involved site clearances, excavations, backfills, and improvements of existing roads.

                                                           10
the local communities. These funds could be used to hire a community relations specialist to
help sensitize the communities on the benefits of electricity and to help the EDTL put together a
communication plan which would cover among other things, advance warning in cases of
anticipated plant shutdown for repair, electricity rates, etc. Although some local consultants were
identified and voluntarily conducted consultations, they were never officially appointed. People
in the project areas and their leaders, Chiefs of Sucos, Chief of the Sub?District, and the Chief of
Viqueque District expressed their support and enthusiastically took part in all activities such as
site visits. They pledged to cooperate in asset acquisition if any. The EDTL staff conducted
socialization only once.

Financial Management

42.    The appraisal-stage Project Financial Management (FM) Risk review of December 12,
2006 raised issues about FM capacity. The review was concerned that project management
advisors would cover the FM but would not be present for the project life and the trained
counterpart staff were not in place. The FM review noted, however, a separate capacity building
program was expected begin shortly. In reality, although such hiring of project management
advisor was noted in the PAD, it was not budgeted under the PAD nor implemented. The Bank
FM periodically once a year or so provided training activities for all projects in Timor Leste but
suffered from poor participation rate.

43.     During the implementation, only one FM risk review on May 12, 2010 was documented,
rated an overall risk as moderate. The review noted that the quality of the work produced by the
staff was quite good and their FM capacity and resources were adequate for this project. The risk
review also noted an insufficient budgeted project funds to complete the project objectives, and a
very slow funds flow.

44.    There are some inconsistencies in the FM review. In spite of the positive FM review in
2010, the MoI does not have consistent data on disbursement, which is different depending on
the person providing the data and also different from data in the Bank system in the Client
Connection. There was also misunderstanding of the Bank‘s FM that this project‘s requires
annual audit although the grant agreement requires only one audit for the entire life of project.

45.     Supplemental audit financed by the TFET had an unclear plan. All projects in Timor
Leste are audited by a private audit firm which is paid by the GoTL. In the PAD, although a
single audit paid by the GoTL was required, the Bank reserved the right to insist on a
supplementary audit if the quality and scope of audit services contracted by GoTL fall short of
the required standards. In the procurement plan at the project appraisal in 2007, US$5,000 was
allocated for an audit and June 2007 was scheduled for the contract signing date, but the audit
cost in the project cost table was US$25,000. In a proposed procurement plan for February 2008-
2009, the audit was proposed at revised contract signing on August 2009 for US$10,000.
However, the project never financed the audit cost. The Bank FM also could not explain this
discrepancy.




                                                11
2.5       Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

46.     Under the project, the government funded distribution system was successfully
completed and is now operated by the EDTL. Through the system, the existing 700 customers in
Uatulari Subdistrict and new 610 customers in Babulo, Diribu and Kampung baru(Bebui) are
currently connected to 1 MW diesel power plant in Uaotorali system and to a back up Aliambata
400kVA (320kW) diesel power plant. This diesel power plant was purchased by the contractor
for distribution system, funded by the GoTL. This Aliambata 320kW diesel power plant is using
the power house and control room, which were built by the contractor under the TFET financed
power generation component. This is because until their gas test revealed no sufficient gas
available and the project proceed to be closed, the contractor had done some work. The power
supply in the project areas from Aliambata power plant will be replaced by 120 MW of multiple
feedstock gensets in Hera and/or 130 MW of multiple feedstock gensets in Betano in 2012
through the ongoing development of national transmission system. While these power plants will
run on light or heavy fuel oil (HFO), they will be possibly later converted to natural gas
operation.

3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

47.     The GoTL‘s strong enthusiasm at the time of project appraisal declined during
implementation. The Prime Minister wrote a letter to the Country Manager on June 23, 2005,
asking for more support to other potential gas seep harvesting projects in other areas in addition
to Aliambata. The letter emphasized that the availability of low cost energy had significant
implications for the wellbeing and economic development of the local communities in rural
Timor-Leste. However, the Government‘s interest in the project was waned due to the
subsequent election, the oil development and its export revenue and the nationwide power
development plan with a total generating capacity of 250MW (Hera and Betano) in which
includes a construction of Viqueque sub-station (total of nine sub-stations all over the country)
where the transmission line and grounding network installation progressing from Viqueque sub-
station to Aliambata area. This power expansion reflects a 20-year Strategic Development Plan
for 2011-2030 that the Government published in July 2011 4

48.      The MoI confirmed that the project objective of exploring the potential rural
electrification in isolated areas through a natural gas fired power plant by harvesting seep gas is
still relevant to the GoTL‘s renewable energy and rural electrification program. This relevance
is despite that in the Strategic Development Plan, its renewable energy and rural electrification
program does not specifically mention gas seep and the Plan do not talk about onshore gas
development, noting only offshore.

49.     The World Bank Group Interim Strategy for FY2010-2011 aims to support Government
in four strategic areas along this transitional path, in which the energy is not explicit. Although
the fourth strategic area includes the support to enhanced rural productivity, the project‘s


4
    http://www.laohamutuk.org/Oil/Power/2011/11PowerPlant2011.htm.

                                                     12
relevance to the current Bank strategy appears not so significant. The project contributed to this
fourth strategic area by doubling the numbers of rural households with free electricity services
(thus sustainability is questionable) for six hours per day in the project areas through the
construction of distribution system. As soon as the 400kVA is transferred to the Uatorali to run
with the 1MW genset there, they will have 12 hours per day of electricity services. Eventually,
they will have 24 hours per day of electricity services from two power plants in Betano and
Heara totaling 250 MW, which have more than sufficient capacity to meet the current demand of
about 45MW or so. The 240 MW plants will still respond to a near future growth in demand in
most of areas in the country. Unless the cost recovery of electricity service is achieved, the real
and sustainable rural productivity cannot be achieved.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

50.     The project could not validate the feasibility of the seepage gas fired power generation
due to the reduced amount of gas but nearly doubled the numbers of households with electricity
services. The development objective of the proposed project was to demonstrate the technical
and economic viability of harvesting seep gas from natural gas seeps to produce reliable and
affordable power for isolated rural communities in the south eastern part of Timor-Leste. In lieu
of the cancelled power plants, the GoTL has installed 320kW diesel genset in the power house
that the contractor has constructed. This 320kW genset is now operating as a back up and the
areas are provided with electricity from the 1MW diesel power plant in Uatorali system. This
diesel genset is supplying the existing 700 customers and 610 new customers for six hours per
day. The project design included a prepaid meter for the sustainability of the project but due to
procurement problems, the prepaid meter component was dropped.               Instead, most of the
consumers were installed MCB and are getting free electricity. Even if conventional meters were
installed, the lack of capacity of the EDTL prevented meter reading and bill collection.
Therefore, the PDO could be considered partially achieved but the sustainability of supply of
relatively reliable and affordable electricity to rural communities, which are currently no charge
to the communities, is at risk.

51.      The gas test in 2005 was reviewed by an external consultant and the Bank staff and they
assessed satisfactory and no misrepresentations, given the limited budget constraints and limited
scope. Since then, a decreasing amount of the gas was observed. The gas test by the contractor
in late 2010 five years after 2005 indicated less than 10 percent of the amount of gas estimated in
2010. Further due diligence and review of the assessment were requested by Bank by doing
another test but the MoI and the EDTL were not interested in spite of the recurrent follow up by
the Bank. The further independent test could have showed a different value, but such a value
could have caused further confusions and only indicates the needs for more comprehensive
analysis including exploration and reservoir analyses. However, an expert view in the gas and oil
industry is that such a rapid depletion of amount of gas is possible therefore the both gas tests
could be correct; the flow rate declines could be reflecting the limited volume of gas in the
reservoir connected to the seeps being tapped. If the project has not located additional seeps that
are connected to other accumulations, options to increase the production rate are limited.




                                                13
3.3        Efficiency

52.     The government has been implementing the nationwide power development plan,
including the project areas, as noted in 3.1. above. The total generating capacity of 250MW
(Hera and Betano) is expected to provide electricity supply to the project areas through a
construction of Viqueque sub-station among the total of nine sub-stations all over the country.
The transmission line and grounding network installation from Viqueque sub-station to
Aliambata area have been progressing. The nine new substations are well located in the country,
so that the distribution feeders of 20 kV substations can reach all corners of the country, with the
possible exception of the Oecussi enclave, which lies on the west side of the island in Indonesian
territory. Once the new system is operational, the existing power plants, including one in
Aliambata, will either remain as a backup power plant or be transferred to remote isolated areas,
and the existing 20 kV feeders will be connected to new substations to get power from Hera
and/or Betano.

53.     Under the counterfactual scenario of what would have happened if there was no GSHP,
the GoTL would have built the project‘s distribution system. This is because rural electrification
had been among the priority of the GoTL and the new government that took place shortly after
the project became effective May 2007 announced the nationwide power development plan. The
project‘s distribution system is directly connected to the Uatolari system, which is presently
being connected to the Viqueque system, and will ultimately be supplied from the Viqueque
substation. Moreover, Viqueque substation will be connected to Hera power plant in May 15,
2012. There are additional villages such as Uato Carbu (Uato Carabau) that will be connected as
well, approximately eight kilometers beyond Aliambata. However, since the GSHP‘s Aliambata
power plant would not have been constructed under the counterfactual scenario, a small
extension of distribution line of two kilometers out of the total 27 kilometers of the project
distribution line, which connects the distribution system to the Aliambata power plant, would not
have been needed.

54.     A 400 kVA (320kW) diesel genset that GoTL bought and placed in the project site in lieu
of the cancelled project‘s power plant, would have been placed in Darabai station (Uatolari
power system) under the counterfactual scenario. Before the GSHP was implemented, the project
areas were supplied electricity from 100kW and 75 kW diesel gensets, which were in poor
condition, at Darabai station in Uatorali power system. Therefore, the 400 kVA diesel genset
would have been placed in Darabai station to complement these 100kW and 75kW gensets.
Furthermore, consistent with the current actual scenario, the 1 MW diesel unit from Comoro
station, which was transferred to Darabai station (Uatolari power system) would have been
providing power to Aliambata.

55.     The actual scenario is that the distribution system has been developed under the project
and the additional new 610 customers was connected to the 320kW Aliambata diesel power
plant.5 These new customers are located near the project site in Babulo, Diribu and Kampung
baru (Bebui). Later, the government transferred the 1 MW diesel genset from Comoro to
Darabai station, which has been currently supplying power to Aliambata areas and the 320 kW


5
    But this 320kW diesel power plant was included in the distribution system contract amount under the GHSP.

                                                         14
diesel power plant became a backup. The foundation work, such as power house, control room,
road clearing work, etc. has been done until the gas test led the work to be terminated. The 320
kW Aliambata diesel power plant will soon be transferred to Darabai station to run parallel with
the 1 MW diesel power plant. This has several benefits: (i) facilitate maintenance; (ii) remove
costs of transportation to and from Aliambata to deliver fuel and routinely maintain the unit; and
(iii) increase electrical service to the area covered by Uatolari system from six to 12 hours.
Eventually, they will be replaced by those plants in Hera and Betano sometime in 2012.

56.     In the actual scenario, additional costs are incurred compared to the counterfactual
scenario: (i) project manager (US$ 71,822.01), (ii) the power plant construction (US$ 314,057.80
), and (iii) 2/27 of the cost of the 27 kilometer distribution system since this small 2 kilometer
extension to the Aliambata power plant would not have needed in the counterfactual scenario
(US$ 85,800.71). These constitute the economic analysis of this project of with and without
GSHP. All the other costs and benefits such as new consumers cannot be accounted for since the
counterfactual scenario would have the same costs and benefits.

57.    The economic opportunity cost of capital (EOCK) is estimated to discount the economic
resource flow statement. The economic cost of capital (EOCK) can be measured as a weighted
average of the rate of return on displaced investment, the rate of time preference to savers, and
the cost of additional foreign capital inflows. The EOCK of Timor Leste for 2006-2010 is
estimated at 10-11.88 percent. An average value of 11.46 percent EOCK for 2007-2010 is used.

58.     The economic opportunity cost of foreign exchange, i.e., foreign exchange premium
(FEP), is estimated to use in the economic analysis instead of the financial cost to reflect the true
resource cost of a unit of foreign exchange. Trade and foreign exchange markets are affected by
two major types of distortions: trade taxes and domestic indirect taxes. An FEP reflecting the
difference between the value of the economic and financial exchange rates is a function of two
components: trade distortion premium + the domestic consumption tax premium. The FEP for
Timor Leste is estimated at 6.7 percent.

59.     The net present value of the project is negative US$ (313,289.21) at EOCK of 11.46
percent. There is no net benefit and therefore benefit cost ratio is zero. Table 1 below illustrates
the distributional impacts of the project. Due to the tax revenues and FEP, the Government and
the economy at large gain US$1,454. The local labor also benefits at US$270 through the
differences in the wage and the opportunity cost of unskilled labor. Foreign workers gain
US$1,912 due to the FEP. Even if the power generation based on seepage gas is not possible,
the prepaid meter installation component would have provided some benefits such as energy
efficiency and loss reduction, but this component was also cancelled due to the procurement
issues. Also, even if enough seepage gas was available for a power generation, the fact that the
massive national transmission and distribution network connecting power supply from the
Betano and Hera power plants to the project areas would make this GSHP redundant. Using the
same discount rate, the financial valuation of NPV is negative US$ (316,925.91). In sum, this
project investment is inefficient.




                                                 15
                Table 1. Distribution Impacts (Present Value at EOCK of 11.46 percent)
                                                                         Distributional Impacts
      US$       Economic PV     Financial PV    Differences      Local         Economy/         Foreign
                                                                 Labor        Government         Labor
  Investment        (261,342)      (262,553)           1,212                          1,212
  Local Labor           (400)          (700)             300           270                30
  Foreign            (51,548)       (53,673)           2,125                             212        1,912
  Labor
  Total             (313,289)      (316,926)           3,637
  Gain/Loss                                                            270           1,454         1,912

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

60.     The project is unsatisfactory because the project could not validate the availability of
seepage gas and was inefficient while the distribution system increased the number of customers
with rural electricity services. Even with sufficient quantity of gas, the Aliambata power plant
would not be ideally located for a pilot because the area will be no longer isolated and will be
connected to the national power network. TFET funded components were all failed including the
prepaid meter component, which could have ensured the sustainability and promoted energy
efficiency, was dropped. However, the distribution system component was installed and is
operational.

61.      While the risk of insufficient gas was identified at the appraisal, the Bank decided to
proceed with the pilot because of the potential gain to poor communities far outweighed the
risks. In 2006, when the project was under preparation, the country suffered from a lack of fiscal,
technical, and institutional capacity to provide reliable electricity in Dili and large towns, let
alone energize remote, off-grid communities. The desperate needs to provide electricity services
to the rural poor communities were urgent.

62.     The first of the three variables– fiscal space— is not as determinative as it had been in
2006. The off-shore gas reserves have provided the country with the means to invest in
generation and distribution that has the potential to connect most, if not all, the remote south
eastern communities targeted by the project.

63.    Today, even if the gas seep were found to be of sufficient quantity to generate the
expected amount of electricity and utilizing it had been technically feasible, the intervening
investments in generation and distribution have altered the feasibility of operating a separate gas
seep based power plant in Aliambata. It made more economic sense to fill the missing links in
transmission and extend the distribution system to utilize excess capacity of the newly-
commissioned Hera plant. In the meantime, the decision to transfer 400 kVA (320 kW) in
Aliambata to Uatorali consolidates operations and maintenance - an important consideration
because of the shortage of qualified personnel and fuel trucks - in one location translating to
savings and providing the opportunity to run the generator in parallel with the 1 MW unit and
increase service from six to 12 hours daily.



                                                 16
64.    The greenhouse gas reduction (GHG) noted in the PAD may be irrelevant. Since the flow
of gas was found to be not feasible for electricity generation, in all probability, the GHG
emissions are not as significant as anticipated in the PAD.

3.5       Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)       Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

65.    Involvement of local community during the civil works for the construction of power
plant benefited the community. During the project preparation, the Government has submitted a
social assessment report covering the six sucos of the Viqueque district namely: Babulo,
Afloicai, Uma Uain Leten, Waitame, Matahoi and Makadikiki. The social assessment study
covered both the electrified and un-electrified sucos and had the following scope:

         The potential beneficiaries of the project were overwhelmingly poor;
         The affordability (using the income expenditure approach) and willingness to pay for
          energy consumption at the survey in June 2005 showed that in general the potential
          beneficiaries wanted free services for a year given the cost of metering and billing by
          consumption. In exchange, they were open to voluntarily cut off or trim trees to allow the
          construction of transmission lines; and
         The communities‘ expectations on the benefit of getting electricity services and
          coordination by the government for them to participate in the project implementation,
          operations and maintenance.

66.    Local communities were employed for various civil works funded by the Bank and
GoTL. Approximately 44 person-months of local labor were utilized resulting in wages
amounting to present value (PV) of US$700 in financial value and US$400 in economic value.
They are all males and previously unemployed.

67.     Additional 610 household connections had social and economic benefits. In conformity
with the PAD and according to local tradition, consultations were undertaken with the suco or
village chiefs and the villagers. Their decision determined the service hours from 6pm to
midnight everyday, resulted in the following benefits:

         Reduced expenditures in kerosene and other plant-based oils used for portable lighting
          equipment;
         Reduced expenditures for batteries and small, portable sources of energy; and
         Reduced risk of household damage from fires caused by unattended candles and open or
          exposed portable lighting equipment.

68.     These social and economic benefits could lead to the medium to long term benefits.
Examples are (i) improved educational outcomes from increased study time for students and
parental supervision of study time (dependent on the provision of educational inputs and
behavioral changes such as textbooks, improved instruction, increased participation of parents
and collaboration with teachers in their children‘s education), and (ii) reduced risk of contracting
respiratory illness due to improvements in indoor air quality.

                                                 17
69.     Enhanced local business activity is not expected to happen until electricity service is
extended to most of the day and the area made accessible. Accessibility is hampered by poor
road conditions, especially in the rainy season. At present, it is not expected that even better-off
households will invest in household appliances such as refrigerators because electricity is only
for six hours per day. More likely, the better-off households are likely to purchase television sets,
video players, game players, and portable satellite dishes for personal use. The more
entrepreneurial, especially those running neighborhood stores, are likely to use these appliances
to provide fee-based entertainment services to the surrounding community. These appliances are
likely to result in a better informed community connected to the outside world. Better
information is a contributory factor to improved educational and health outcomes, nation-
building, and better citizens.

70.      Sustainability of electricity service is questionable in the project areas. In the PAD,
sustainability in large part, depended on the implementation of cost-recovery mechanisms by the
EDTL such as the installation of pre-paid meters for existing and new customers in the area.
Since the project dropped this prepaid meters component and the EDTL could not obtain the
FY2011 GoTL budget allocation, at present, the EDTL is providing free electricity to new
customers or charging a fixed fee based on amperage. New customers are charged US$10
including connection and installation of master circuit breaker (MCB) or conventional meter,
most of them are installed with the former (i.e., MCB). However, verification is ongoing to
determine consistency of collection of US$10 charge and the actual amount collected. An actual
cost of connection and instillation of meter is US$83, including US$45 for conductors and other
equipments, US$25 for conventional meters, etc. An actual cost of electricity generation is
US$0.42/kWh (US$0.1095 for operations and maintenance (O&M) and US$0.3125 for diesel
fuel, totaling US$0.4220)

                       Table 2. Ampere based monthly payment for electricity service
                      Monthly payment              2A           4A              6A
                      Six hours               US$ 2.25      US$4.50        US$ 6.00

71.       In the past years, cost recovery was not an overriding concern for the following reasons:

         Continuous power shortages focused attention on generation; and
         Populist pressures combined with the government‘s need to establish legitimacy,
          consolidate its authority, and provide stability overrode concerns of economic viability
          and efficiency.

72.    At present, the six hour daily power service does not justify consumption based charging
in remote rural areas such as Viqueque. On the supply side, the EDTL still has to procure the
pre-paid meters and lay out the distribution network for tokens. On the demand side, customers
would look for reliable and quality service from the EDTL before any consumption-based
charging becomes fully acceptable.

73.    As the generation problem has been solved at least in the medium term, with the
country‘s excess capacity, the immediate challenge is extending the distribution system. By the

                                                    18
middle of this year, eighty percent of the country would enjoy electricity. At the household
level, 100 percent connection to the grid may be impossible to achieve, as their location in the
interior makes it technically and economically impossible to connect them. Off-grid solutions
would have to be explored for these households.

74.      Sustainability now rests in building the capacity and professionalization of EDTL, and
placing it on a sound financial footing. At the moment, the two major plants of the country,
Comoro 2 and Hera, are running under O&M contracts with foreign companies. In the long run,
this is financially unsustainable and will entail increasing opportunity costs. It is imperative that
EDTL capacity is built to gradually take over the management, operation, and maintenance of
these generating assets. It is not the economic interest of the present O&M generating
contractors to build this capacity. Hence, the GoTL has to complement the services of these
contractors by parallel activities to build capacities.

75.     On distribution, a maintenance culture has to be built within the EDTL to preserve and
enhance distribution assets to provide quality and reliable service to customers. A critical pre-
condition for providing reliable service is accessibility, especially in the rainy season, when
strong winds can blow down poles, and snap cables. Accessibility depends on good roads to
ensure that repair crews get to damaged assets quickly and for fuel trucks to continue supplying
diesel fuel to generators.

76.     Maintenance depends on the ability to source the requisite replacement spare parts,
distribution poles, etc., at competitive market prices and the right quality. In turn, this is a
function of procurement and payment performance. On the second, the GoTL has US$9.5
million in arrears to the EDTL suppliers, which makes suppliers wary of bidding, thereby
making any procurement process uncompetitive. Consequently, the GoTL has to resort to direct
contracting or single source procurement and entertain unsolicited bids to supply its needs.
Direct contracting or acceptance of unsolicited bids has jacked up prices and has resulted in
large inventories of materials and equipment, e.g., distribution poles with their attendant
inventory and opportunity costs and driving rent seeking behavior among private sector investors
and bidders. Less than optimal procurement processes have been driven by the natural resource
rents the country is enjoying from off-shore oil reserves.

77.     On the supply side, Timor Leste would have to assess its dependence on imported diesel
and heavy fuels, as the price of oil is anticipated to remain volatile and to continue rising, as
demand exceeds the discovery and production of new sources of fossil fuels. Eventually, a
decision needs to be made about using a portion of its off-shore gas reserves for domestic
consumption or barring this choice, tapping renewable sources of electricity such as
hydroelectric power. Energy experts say that the island‘s water resources can easily produce 50
MW from hydroelectric. With the country‘s inordinate investment in generation in the past two
years and excess capacity expected to last for a number of years, it may sound difficult to make
this argument at the moment but developing hydropower takes long time.

78.    In the meantime, efforts need to be made to gradually wean consumers, such as
households, private firms, and government, away from free electricity and begin charging users
according to their consumption. Free electricity to citizens represents part of the ―revolutionary

                                                 19
dividend‖ that the young government was expected to provide after years of struggling for
independence but it cannot go on indefinitely. Dili and the suburbs have currently 40 percent
non-revenue electricity: 15 percent of which are estimated to be technical loss and 25 percent are
non technical loss from unmetered households, bypassed meters (theft) and unpaid electricity
bills by government. Unpaid electricity bills by government offices constitute 60 percent of the
non technical loss. The impact of unpaid bills on the EDTL‘s cost of doing business is
undetermined, as EDTL does not currently bill government offices. Some work is going on in
estimating the financial impact of unpaid government bills, offsetting this against any budgetary
outlays that government is providing to the EDTL, estimating how much it costs to produce a
unit of electricity including the financial effects of the O&M contract, and how much revenue it
is obtaining from collections.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

79.      The project had negligible impacts on the long term capacity and institutional
development. The project‘s TA component Project Management and Support (US$ 120,000)
had included a project manager, the promotion of energy efficiency and productive use of
electricity, continued socialization, training, end of project survey and incremental operating
expenses. A full time project manager would have provided on-the-job training to the local
counterpart staffs, which however was not possible. No other activities other than the part time
project manager for a limited period were implemented. During the project implementation, the
MoI requested a project advisor to support the project implementation and strengthen the
institutional capacity. However, since the requested procurement method was a single source
selection, their request was not materialized. After the project was closed, the MoI expressed its
intention to request financing to the procurement training by the Energy Service Delivery
Project, which will end in June 30, 2012. Working with the Bank through the project may have
marginal impacts on the client‘s capacity on project management under international financial
institutions (IFIs), such as financial management, procurement and social and environmental
safeguards.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

80.     As the Aliambata power plant was cancelled, the 400kVA diesel power plant was placed
in the project site rather than Uatolari. This resulted in more costly and inefficient power supply.
But this power plant will soon be transferred to Uatorari to run parallel with the 1 MW diesel
power plant. This will provide benefits: (i) facilitate maintenance; (ii) remove costs of
transportation to and from Aliambata to deliver fuel and routinely maintain the unit; and (iii)
increase electrical service to the area covered by Uatolari from six to 12 hours.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

                                                20
81.    The expected outcomes of the project would be the successful completion of the
demonstration project at the Aliambata gas seep site and supply of relatively reliable and
affordable electricity to rural communities near the project site.

82.     The first term of above expected outcomes ―the successful completion of the
demonstration project at the Aliambata gas seep site‖ was not achieved. An available gas was
not enough for the planned power generation when the contractor to build the power plant
conducted the gas test. Due to the large discrepancy of the gas quantity between the power plant
construction phase and the feasibility study phase, the Bank requested the EDTL to conduct an
additional gas test using funding from TFET. Despite the frequent follow up with the EDTL by
the Bank team, additional gas seep sampling tests have not been conducted. The EDTL pointed
out that the GoTL's nationwide electrical power grid and power development plan with a total
generating capacity of 250MV (multiple feedstocks such as diesel oil, oil and gas) was underway
in which includes a construction of Viqueque sub-station (total of nine sub-stations all over the
country) and the transmission line and grounding network installation from Viqueque sub-station
to Aliambata area. In addition, due to the limited time remaining until the project closing date of
December 31, 2011, it became no longer feasible to conduct the tests and to finance them under
the project.

83.     The last term of expected outcome ―supply of relatively reliable and affordable electricity
to rural communities near the project site‖ may not be sustainable. The project dropped the
prepaid meter component. Currently, the consumers are not paying for electricity services. An
actual cost of electricity generation is US$0.42/KWh (US$0.1095 for O&M and US$0.3125 for
diesel fuel). Thus, the sustainability of electricity services is at risk.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory

84.     The Bank‘s commitment to support this project was high. The Bank started preparation
work for a Gas Seep Harvesting Community Development Carbon Fund Project, including
sampling and testing of the seeping gas, a study of uses of the gas particularly power generation,
a study of community benefits and land use issues, and an inventory of gas seep resources across
the country. However, since the gas seepage is not the anthropogenic gas, the project was not
qualified for the carbon financing program of the Bank. 6 The Bank also explored another gas
seep harvesting project in other areas to be funded by Global Environment Facility (GEF)
although this was never materialized. In addition, the grant from Asia Sustainable and
Alternative Energy Program (ASTAE) was used to conduct national gas seep inventory survey,


6
  According to the Country Manager‘s letter to Dr. Mari Bim Amude Alkatiri, the Prime Minister and Minister of
the Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy on September 2, 2005.

                                                       21
which was a quick and low cost approach to estimate the gas flow but was unsuccessful in
completing the tasks.

85.     The Bank‘s assessment of the technical and operational viability of the project was
unsatisfactory. A risk of gas supply due to a lack of exploration and no validation of the reservoir
done in the gas assessment technical feasibility study for the project was raised at the decision
meeting. The peer reviewer also noted that the use of natural gas seeps was not widely prevalent
in industry and that the process and equipment developed for collection might not be fault proof.
The task team agreed with the risk but pointed out the prohibitive cost of further exploration. A
team member later commented that this project had been pushed too fast and had already noticed
a small quantity of seepage gas during the preparation. During the preparation, it was proposed
to first only build the gas collection facility (and if needed gas flare) to ensure on the gas
production. Additional gas test could have been done before the project implementation by
including the project areas in the national gas seep survey. This risk of gas supply was rated as
moderate. The risk mitigation was conducting a technical feasibility study, which was not an in-
depth-study. In fact, this risk was significant.

86.     The Bank appeared to be significantly underestimated the risks or did not address the
magnitude of the reservoir depletion risk. Had the Bank fully appreciated that risk, alternative
and relatively low-cost risk mitigation measures built on the relevant experience and practices in
the gas and oil industry. Even without conducting the expensive reservoir analyses, an
intermediate gas availability monitoring test (e.g., 12-24 months) could have been conducted
regardless of lack of progress toward construction, especially given that the rapid reduction of
the gas seepages had been observed even during the project preparation.

87.     When the capacity of the Government to implement and manage the project is low, the
project should be designed to be fully self sufficient. The project should not hire a short term
and part time project manager that would be available only less than one year for a more than
two year project. Also, the project should not have expected to get support from other projects,
as they would have the same or similar problems and timely support would not available.

88.     The project was justified given the (underestimated) low cost of pilot project and the cost
to the rural poor without sufficient electricity services was overwhelming. In fact, this project
was high risk and high cost and some of the project deigns were premature, although the project
was well intended to support the country.

(b)    Quality of Supervision

Rating: Unsatisfactory

89.    The Bank team was proactive in filling the vacuum of project management and
implementation. For example, the Bank team obtained help from ADB procurement consultants
and developed the detailed implementation schedules to help guide the project implementation.
Also, the Bank team tried to compensate the financing gap with the proposed additional
financing.



                                                22
90.     However, a lack of communications and proper filing of data and information worsened
the difficulties in solving implementation and management problems. When problems were
realized, it was difficult, time consuming and confusing to trace what has happened, the
backgrounds and causations. Sometimes, problems were recognized too late. These examples
include procurement issues, such as bidding process in procuring prepaid meter and financial
management issues, such as audit requirements. In the last ISR, although Interim Financial
Reports (IFRs) are not required in this project, submission of IFRs is noted. All the ISRs noted
submissions of progress reports but such reports were never filed or submitted. At the second
ISR, the Sector Manager agreed with the task team that a new ISR should be filed in three
months and that if significant progress was not achieved, then the ratings should be downgraded
into MU status. However, the subsequent ISR was not completed as agreed. Until the last ISR,
the evaluations of the project status lacked critical views and provided optimistic ratings, which
misleads the project performance.

91.     The lack of Bank‘s local staff and the staff turnover at local and headquarter office
worsened the efficient and effective supervision. The very limited number of local Bank staff
who were responsible of multiple projects and the lack of proper filing of information made in
particular difficult to manage project since this project did not have a project manager (except for
only a short time) nor a project implementation unit.

92.     The FM had several errors and FM missions and reports were hardly made. Apart from
FM report made during the appraisal, only one FM mission with a report in 2010 was conducted,
yet inadequately assessed as if annual audit is required and overestimated the capacity of the MoI
and the EDTL. Follow up with the MoI and the EDTL to ensure the delivery of the consolidated
financial reports and project progress reports were rarely made. Part of the reasons for all the
errors were that the FM specialist had been relocated to Washington, D.C. in about May 2007
and from then until January 2008 there was no one doing the FM work for the project in Sydney
and thus the relocated FM specialist would have been doing it in addition to his workload in
Washington, D.C.

93.     The Bank team should have taken immediate actions as soon as it became apparent of (i)
the risk of insufficient gas, (ii) the weakened GoTL's commitment to gas seep by the national
power development and (c) the lack of GoTL‘s commitment to the cost recovery. During the
supervision mission at the early stage of the project implementation, communities in the project
areas informed the Bank team that the amount of seepage gas has been diminishing over the past
years. However, no action has been taken until the gas test was conducted by the contractor in
late 2010. The Bank could have fundamentally restructured the project and change the
objectives, or canceled the project. If the Bank had made it a rural electrification PDO (rather
than a gas seep PDO) where the number of households with electricity was doubled in the area
with the improved system reliability, it might have been MU (still the genset placed in Aliambata
was costly to bring fuel and the genset will have to be moved to Uatolari). Despite all the known
and unknown problems, the Bank still kept rating DO and implementation progress (IP) as MS
for three years after approval, and did not restructure. This was a small project with substantial
risks in a fragile, post-conflict country, but the Bank was persistent when there still might be a
chance to achieve the original PDO.



                                                23
94.     The Bank should have reminded the MoI to engage a consultant to conduct an end of
project survey, which was included in the TA component. This was especially needed given
difficulties for the MoI to collect data for preparation of their ICR and for the Bank‘s ICR.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

95.     The overall Bank performance is unsatisfactory. The Bank‘s judgments of how to address
the identified risks were inadequate while the Bank was committed to the project during the
preparation. Although the Bank team tried to address the deficiencies in the project design
during the supervision, it lacked attentions to details and timely actions if not always.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

96.    Initially, the commitment of the GoTL to the project was strong but this was not
maintained. Dr. Mari Bim Amude Alkatiri, the Prime Minister and Minister of the Natural
Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy requested the Bank‘s support to implement this project
and scaling up. However, with the national election and oil development and associated large
revenues, and the national power development plan that includes the project areas, the
Government‘s interest was weakened. In addition, the relatively small size of the project became
marginal.

97.      Institutional arrangements of the GoTL also affected the project. When the bidding
process for the power generation component began, the Bank team found that the market prices
of the power plants were more than double the original estimates in the PAD. The Bank team
secured additional funds from TFET. However, the new Government resulting from the June 30
2007 legislative elections, soon after the project became effective in May 30, 2007, created the
State Secretariat of the Natural Resources, which had a mandate to issue mineral exploration
licenses and establish mechanisms for coordination with other government organizations.
Therefore, before the Ministry of Finance sent a letter of additional finance request, the Minister
of Finance wished to obtain agreements by the State Secretary for Natural Resources, as well as
by the State Secretary for Energy Policy. This arrangement led confusion and loss of
institutional ownership of the project and delayed in sending the letter of additional financing to
the Bank. The interest in the project had fallen significantly since the Minister for Infrastructure
and the Prime Minister cleared the power supply contract at Hera and related transmission lines.
With transmission built along the coast across the street from the project site, Alimabata was
doomed to become obsolete within a year or two. The problem of conflict of jurisdiction between
ministries and state secretaries, and the lack of interest resulted in no ownership of the project.

98.     In the mean time, multiple problems of procurement issues arose and accumulated. A lot
of these problems were the result of inefficient or inexistent communication between the project

                                                24
manager and the MoI. By the time the request letter of additional financing arrived at the Bank,
the Bank needed due diligence in ensuring that the accumulated procurement issues would be
resolved to a certain extent before proceeding for additional financing.

99.     The GoTL was committed to providing electricity services in the project areas. Even the
gas seep fired power plant was not possible, the GoTL financed the 400kVA genset and
additional work for the contractor to meet the demand of the communities near the Aliambata
and eventually transferred the 1MW diesel power plant from Comoro power station to Uatolari
in order to provide better power to the communities.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

100. The absence of the project manager during most of the project life caused difficulties in
the project implementation and management. The Bank team did not have a direct contact such
as project manager to be regularly kept informed of the project status and obtain the information
and data as needed. The selection of project manager was delayed since the project became
affective in May 2007. The project manager worked part time for only 180 days with sporadic
presence in Timor Leste from August 2008 to April 2009 spending all the allocated budget. No
replacement of a project manager took place until the project close on December 31, 2011. The
EDTL‘s assignment of staff with limited project management experience to the implementation
team did not help.

101. Part of the reasons of less involvement of the EDTL in the project was due to disconnect
between those who make decision in the power development plan and those who implement and
manage the power sector. The EDTL has been minimally involved in the actual electrification
plan, if there is one. The EDTL has provided over 500 individual projects to the GoTL for their
issuance of contracts. However, the EDTL is not involved in either tendering or procurement of
the projects or in which particular order they are being awarded. This is usually done by the
Prime Minister‘s office, Agencia Nacional de Desenvolvimento, i.e., National Development
Agency (AND).7 The EDTL only gets involved once the projects are underway and inspections
are requested. The EDTL inspects the projects and signs off on completion once they have
received the request and the proper documentation from the contractor. Even during the
preparation of this project, the project advisor, who was funded under the PHRD to prepare the
ESDP and worked with the EDTL, noted that the project was dismissed.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory




7
  The AND is Agencia Nacional de Desenvolvimento which means National Development Agency. It is in charge of
projects at district level under USD350,000 and looking over the large scale projects over USD 1 million and also
the Infrastructure Development Fund (managed by Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance, MoI and Minister Council).

                                                       25
102. The overall performance is unsatisfactory due to their marginal ownership of the project
and their limited capacity while the GoTL was committed to the rural electrification. The
Government‘s interest and sense of ownership in the project has been reduced. The counterpart
officials have been trying to attend as much as possible to the project. However, they had to
handle many projects and the relatively small size of this trust funded project resulted in
marginal attention paid to implement, manage, monitor and evaluate the project, caused
significant implementation delay, procurement problems and vacuum of management.

6.     Lessons Learned

103. Technical risk should not be underestimated. The risks to gas supply were addressed
because of lack of exploration and no validation of the reservoir done in the technical feasibility
study during the decision meeting. While the quality of the technical feasibility study was
deemed adequate given the scope and the allocated budget, a more comprehensive in-depth-
study was needed. Also, it was noted that the use of natural gas seeps was not widely prevalent in
industry and that the process and equipment developed for collection may not be fault proof. The
project was a pilot without the in-depth-study because the cost of further exploration was
prohibitive. The project was opportunistic since it was considered worth taking the risk given
the relatively small grant although it was due to the grossly underestimated costs of power plants
and project management. Had the gas been found to be of sufficient quantity for power
generation in Aliambata, more projects in other areas might have been prepared. However,
without in-depth technical analyses of onshore gas resources, it would be possible to encounter
an opportunistic gas assessment whose results of quantity of available gas would change every
time an assessment is conducted.

104. The significant impacts of the realization of the risk, even if the probability is low, should
be seriously considered. The risk of lower than expected gas yields was rated as modest based
on the feasibility study. Due to the relatively low cost pilot nature and the urgency to provide
electricity services to the poor, the decision was made to implement the project to take the risk.
However, the impacts, should the risk occur, were so high that stronger confirmation of this
critical project assumption should have been made during preparation.

105. In pilots without lessons learned for a specific type of project, lessons learned and the risk
mitigation measures should be rigorously sought from the relevant industry. The sufficient peer
review comments were provided during the decision meeting and relevant potential risks and
mitigation measures and management practices were available from the general oil and gas
industry. What degree of certainty is required prior to implementation need to be carefully
examined. The less comprehensive first and second gas tests appeared to be an acceptable
standard given their limited scope and budgets. But as such, the volume and the location of gas
in the reservoir connected to the seeps could not be estimated. The flow rate will decline with
time during the gas production from the reservoir. The speed of the decline is determined by the
volume of gas and the flow resistance from reservoir to well. Usually, a gas production operation
will continuously drill new production wells to maintain the production capacity. The project
have not located additional seeps that are connected to other accumulations, the options to
increase the production rate are limited. The project had no provision to tap another part of the
reservoir or a different reservoir to maintain adequate flow rate. The Bank did not adequately

                                                26
address the magnitude of the reservoir depletion risk. The Bank could have taken alternative and
relatively low-cost risk mitigation measures and could have pre-planned an intermediate
monitoring test after, say, 12-24 months regardless of lack of progress toward construction.

106. Even for a pilot project, the required budget needs to be carefully assessed especially in a
high risk and small economy. In fact, initially, the TFET financing to the project was proposed
to be only US$540,000. For such a small and rather isolated economy and a small size of power
plants, economies of scale and normal competitive bidding may not be easily achieved.

107. There is a need to ensure adequate implementation capacity when the Bank embarks in a
small country. The required support to capacity of people and environments need to be carefully
identified and sufficiently addressed not only regarding project management, but also across the
whole range of skills including procurement and financial management.

108. The Bank needs to consider the client commitment, not only their commitment to the
project components but to the way of doing business with international financing institutions,
including the Bank. Many difficulties in procurement in the energy sector in Timor Leste have
had to do with their wanting to do procurement their own way and in line with Bank guidelines
and procedures. Their commitment also suffered because this was a very small project
compared with the multi-million dollar projects that the MoI was handling therefore staff time
allocation clearly went for the larger contracts. The project ownership was lacking.

109. The Bank should be more flexible to the changes in Government strategy to power
development in the project area. As soon as the Bank learned that the national power
development plan included the national transmission lines covering the project areas, which
making the project redundant, the Bank could have restructured or even cancelled the project.

110. How the Bank staff projects in these difficult country environments need to be
investigated. These investigations include, for example, in terms of skills composition,
leadership, staff time and resources.

111. This project nature of piloting feasibility of seepage gas fired power plant in the project
area provided important lessons that could help the GoTL seriously consider pursing
comprehensive in-depth analyses before further scaling up of this type of project. During the
project preparation, it was noted that 30 potentially viable gas seeps had been identified.
Although the Strategic Development Plan for 2011-2030 did not mention gas seep, the MoI
confirmed that gas seep is still priority for rural electrification in isolated areas.

7.        Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)       Borrower/implementing agencies

112.      As presented in Annex 7, the MoF raised two issues:

         Procurement. The MoF requested clarification of the basis for negative statements in the
          ICR about payments to suppliers, and lack of interest by suppliers in submitting bids.


                                                 27
          Bank’s response: The information was based on discussions conducted as part of the ICR
          mission in April, 2012. However, upon review, the information was deleted from the ICR.

         Non revenue electricity (system loss). Requested clarification of the source for data on
          non-revenue electricity overall, disaggregated data by technical and non technical loss,
          and government share of non technical loss.
          Bank’s response: The information on the percentage of technical and non technical loss,
          and electricity billing to the government offices was obtained during discussions when
          the ICR mission took place in April, 2012. The overall rate of 40 percentage non-
          revenue electricity was obtained from the EDTL monthly report.

(b)       Cofinanciers

Not Applicable.

(c)       Other partners and stakeholders
          (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable.




                                                     28
                                 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million)
                                                Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of
 Components                                       (US$ million)          Total (US$ million)      Appraisal
 A. Investment Component *                             1.582                    1.532                 96.8
 B. Technical Assistance Component                     0.120                    0.072                 60.0
                          Total Baseline Cost          1.702                    1.604                  94.2
 Physical Contingencies                                0.145                    0.0                     0
                           Total Project Cost          1.847                    1.604                  86.8
 Front-end Fee
                 Total Financing Required              1.847                    1.604                  86.8


(b) Financing (in US$ million)
                                                          Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                       Type of            Estimate             Estimate          Percentage of
 Source of Funds                     Cofinancing        (US$ million)        (US$ million)        Appraisal
 Borrower                                                   0.997                  1.268             127.2
 Trust Fund for East Timor       WB-administered TF         0.850                  0.335              39.4
 (TFET) *
             Total Financing                                1.847                  1.604              86.8

* Note: (i) At the time of the ICR, a withdrawal request of $50,529 was still in process. If approved, the
disbursed amount would be added to the actual cost of Component A and the financing from TFET. (ii)
This investment component includes 400KVA (320KW) genset of US$64,600, which was financed by
the Government of Timor Leste.




                                                      29
                                                                    Annex 2. Outputs by Component

      I.        Project Developmental Objectives (PDOs)

      The development objective of the project is to demonstrate the technical and economic viability of harvesting seep gas from natural
      gas seeps to produce reliable and affordable power for isolated rural communities in the south eastern part of Timor-Leste.

      Table 1: Achievement of PDOs
                                                    Target Values                                  Actual Value Achieved
      Project Outcome                Baseline               YR1                     YR2               2007           2008             2009           2010                 2011
         Indicators
Successfully commissioning   0.0 kW                 3X150 kV                 3X150 kW              0.0 kW         0.0 kW         0.0 kW         0.0 kW             0.0 kW
of the demonstration power
plant
Percentage of electricity                           More than 40% of the     More than 60% of      0%             0%             0%             0%                 0%
generation from gas seeps    0.0%                   electricity generation   the electricity
                                                    from gas                 generation from gas
Reliability improvements     6-hour electricity                              500 existing          700 existing   700 existing   700 existing   700 existing       700 existing
for existing customers       supply for everyday.                            consumers have        consumers      consumers      consumers      consumers and      consumers and
                                                                             more than 6-hour      have six       have six       have six       new 610            new 620
                                                                             electricity supply    hour           hour           hour           consumers have     consumers have
                                                                             everyday              electricity    electricity    electricity    six hour           six hour
                                                                                                   supply         supply         supply         electricity        electricity supply
                                                                                                   everyday       everyday       everyday       supply everyday    everyday
Intermediate Outcome
Indicators
Component 1: Investment                             Award of turn-key                              -              -              -              Contract for gas
Component                                           contract for gas seep                                                                       seep harvesting
                                                    harvesting and                                                                              and generation
                                                    generation by July                                                                          was made in
                                                    2007;                                                                                       August 31, 2010

                                                    Award of turn-key                                                            Award of
                                                    contract for                                                                 Contract for
                                                    distribution system by                                                       distribution
                                                    July 2007                                                                    system was
                                                                                                                                 made in
                                                                                                   -              -              August 18,
                                                                                                                                 2009
Component 2: Technical;                             Award of contract in                           -              Award of       Contract
Assistance                                          April. 2007                                                   contract in    ended in
                                                                                                                  15 August      August 15
                                                                                                                  2008           2009
                                                                                        30
II.       Key Project Outputs
The project was designed to have the following key outputs:
Component A: Investment Component

         Construction of a dual-fuel power plant at Aliambata,
         Building of 20 kV distribution lines to connect the proposed power plant to the existing
          EDTL systems at Uatolari and Uatocarabau and to new consumers in the rural
          communities near the proposed power plant,
         Introducing a system of revenue collection using cost effective metering system, such as
          prepaid metering system, to ensure the financial sustainability of the project.

Component B: Technical Assistance

         To manage the implementation of the project, a Project Manager will be recruited under
          the National Directorate for Water and Electricity Policy (NDWEP) of the Ministry of
          Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy (MNRMEP). Additional activities
          under this component are: continued socialization, training, incremental operating
          expenses and audit.




                                                 31
                                                              Table 2: Achievement of Key Outputs
                                                                                    Actual Accomplishments at Project Completion and Reasons for Deviation from
                              Appraisal Plans
                                                                                                Appraised Implementation Plans and Cost Estimates
Power Plant: US$ 485,000
1 Construction of a dual-fuel power plant at Aliambata. The capacity of         Actual contact amount was US$1,054,262.69, much higher than the original estimate of US$
    the proposed power plant: 3x150 kW, including a gas generator set and       485,000. However, the construction was ceased due to insufficient amount of gas at Aliambata
    two duel fuelled engine/generator sets. The engines of dual fuel            for planned power generation according to the contractor‘s sampling test repot.
    engine/generator sets automatically adjusting the gas/diesel oil ratio      US$263,528.98 was paid to the contractor for work progress payment and US$50,528.82 for
    depending on gas quality, quantity available and local ambient              termination claim payment.
    conditions. About 70-80 percent the fuel expected to come from gas,
    complemented by the diesel oil for the rest of 20-30 to meet peak
    demand.
Distribution System: US$ 1,097,000
1 Building of 20 kV distribution lines to connect the proposed power            20 kV distribution lines was built at US$1,267,917.19. The contractor had already constructed
    plant to the existing EDTL systems at Uatolari and Uatocarabau and to       the power house, control room and other works. Thus, with the GoTL financing, the contactor
    new consumers in the rural communities near the proposed power plant,       bought diesel fired power plant (400 kVA/320 kW) at US$ 64,600, which is located in the
    including Aliambata, Babula and Borolalo. The increasing availability       power house and as a back up of the electricity supply to the existing 700 customers as well as
    of power supply from six hours to 24 hours per day. Supply electricity      new 610 customers. Currently, 1 MW diesel unit from Comoro station, which was transferred
    to approximately 1,000 households currently connected to the power          to Darabai station (Uatolari power system) is providing power to Aliambata.
    system and about 2,000 new households and some small commercial
    customers.
2 Introducing a system of revenue collection using cost effective metering      This component was dropped from this project due to procurement problems, which made it
    system, such as prepaid metering system, to ensure the financial            impossible to complete by the project closing date. It was mentioned during the socialization
    sustainability of the project. Applying the standard tariffs of the EDTL,   prior to the construction of the power plant.
    as in the case of the Dili system, free meters provided to consumers.
    New customers paying EDTL standard connection charges, less the cost
    of the prepayment meter. A community awareness creation and
    consultation campaign during the implementation of the project based
    the public consultation carried out during the project preparation to
    ensure the proper implementation of the system.
Project Management and Support: US$ 120,000
1 Recruitment of the project manager to manage the implementation of            Selection of the project manager was delayed at the project commencement since the project
    the project under the NDWEP of the MNRMEP.                                  became effective in May 2007, who stayed only 180 days from August 2008 to April 2009
                                                                                using the all budget allocated for the project manager, and non replacement of a project
                                                                                manager took place until the project close. The project manager‘s cost was underestimated at
                                                                                US$70,000 which was later proposed total of US$170,000 for additional financing. Actual
                                                                                expenditure for the project manager was US$71,822.01.
2   Continued socialization, training, incremental operating expenses and       Socialization was done only once by the EDTL staff to the community of Aliambata. There is
    audit.                                                                      no continued socialization afterwards. No expenditure was spent.

                                                                                     32
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The government has been implementing the nationwide power development plan, including the
project areas, as noted in 3.1. above. The total generating capacity of 250MW (Hera and Betano)
is expected to provide electricity supply to the project areas through a construction of Viqueque
sub-station among the total of nine sub-stations all over the country. The transmission line and
grounding network installation from Viqueque sub-station to Aliambata area have been
progressing. The nine new substations are well located in the country, so that the distribution
feeders of 20 kV substations can reach all corners of the country, with the possible exception of
the Oecussi enclave, which lies on the west side of the island in Indonesian territory. Once the
new system is operational, the existing power plants, including one in Aliambata, will either
remain as a backup power plant or be transferred to remote isolated areas, and the existing 20 kV
feeders will be connected to new substations to get power from Hera and/or Betano.

Under the counterfactual scenario of what would have happened if there was no GSHP, the
GoTL would have built the project‘s distribution system. This is because rural electrification
had been among the priority of the GoTL and the new government that took place shortly after
the project became effective May 2007 announced the nationwide power development plan. The
project‘s distribution system is directly connected to the Uatolari system, which is presently
being connected to the Viqueque system, and will ultimately be supplied from the Viqueque
substation. Moreover, Viqueque substation will be connected to Hera power plant in May 15,
2012. There are additional villages such as Uato Carbu (Uato Carabau) that will be connected as
well, approximately eight kilometers beyond Aliambata. However, since with the GSHP‘s
Aliambata power plant would not have been constructed under the counterfactual scenario, a
small extension of distribution line of two kilometers out of the total 27 kilometers of the project
distribution line, which connect the distribution system to the Aliambata power plant, would not
have been needed.

A 400 kVA (320kW) diesel genset that GoTL bought and placed in the project site in lieu of the
cancelled project‘s Aliambata power plant, would have been placed in Darabai station (Uatolari
power system) under the counterfactual scenario. Before the GSHP was implemented, the project
areas were supplied electricity from 100kW and 75 kW diesel gensets, which were in poor
condition, at Darabai station in Uatorali power system. Therefore, the 400 kVA diesel genset
would have been placed in Darabai station to complement these 100kW and 75kW gensets.
Furthermore, consistent with the current actual scenario, a 1 MW diesel unit from Comoro
station, which was transferred to Darabai station (Uatolari power system) would have been
providing power to Aliambata.

The actual scenario is that the distribution system has been developed under the project and the
additional new 610 customers was connected to the 320kW Aliambata diesel power plant. These
new customers are located near the project site in Babulo, Diribu and Kampung baru (Bebui).
Later, the government transferred a 1 MW diesel genset from Comoro to Darabai station, which
has been currently supplying power to Aliambata areas and the 320 kW diesel power plant
became a backup. The foundation work, such as power house, control room, road clearing work,
etc. has been done until the gas test led the work to be terminated. The 320 kW Aliambata diesel

                                                33
power plant will soon be transferred to Darabai station to run parallel with a 1 MW diesel power
plant. This has several benefits: (i) facilitate maintenance; (ii) remove costs of transportation to
and from Aliambata to deliver fuel and routinely maintain the unit; and (iii) increase electrical
service to the area covered by Uatolari from six to 12 hours. Eventually they will be replaced by
those plants in Hera and Betano sometime in 2012.

In the actual scenario, additional costs are incurred compared to the counterfactual scenario: (i)
project manager (US$71,822.01), (ii) the power plant construction (US$ 314,057.80 ), and (iii)
2/27 of the cost of the 27 kilometer distribution system since this small 2 kilometer extension to
the Aliambata power plant would not have needed in the counterfactual scenario
(US$ 85,800.71). These constitute the economic analysis of this project of with and without
GSHP. All the other costs and benefits such as new consumers cannot be accounted for since the
counterfactual scenario would have the same costs and benefits.

The economic opportunity cost of capital (EOCK) is estimated to discount the economic
resource flow statement. The economic cost of capital (EOCK) can be measured as a weighted
average of the rate of return on displaced investment, the rate of time preference to savers, and
the cost of additional foreign capital inflows. From 2006-2011, commercial 12 months deposit
rate was for 1.28-1.34 percent. The rate of return on capital/investment is estimated for 13.2-19.3
percent for 2006-2010. The marginal rate of foreign borrowing is estimated as an average of
Commercial Interest Reference Rate (CIRR) and US treasury rate, which is 9.3 percent for the
same period. An investment weight is estimated from the fixed capital formation at 31.7 percent,
and the residual is estimated as a foreign borrowing weight at 60.6 percent. These resulted in the
EOCK of Timor Leste for 2006-2010 is estimated as 10-11.88 percent. An average value of
11.46 percent EOCK for 2007-2010 is used.

The economic opportunity cost of foreign exchange, i.e., foreign exchange premium (FEP), is
estimated to use in the economic analysis instead of the financial cost to reflect the true resource
cost of a unit of foreign exchange. Trade and foreign exchange markets are affected by two
major types of distortions: trade taxes (typically import duties, export taxes and subsides) and
domestic indirect taxes (typically consumption taxes). An FEP reflecting the difference between
the value of the economic and financial exchange rates is a function of two components: trade
distortion premium + the domestic consumption tax premium. All tradable goods and tradable
good components of the resource flows are increased by the foreign exchange premium. Using
the import and export data from the Ministry of Finance and Central Bank of Timor Leste and an
estimated value for developing countries8, FEP is estimated at 6.7 percent.

Other assumptions of the economic analyses include the following:

       Import duty is 2.5 percent of the customs values of the goods, and sales tax is 2.5
        percent of the customs value of the goods imported into Timor-Leste.
       Income tax is 10 percent in Timor Leste



8
 Program on Project Appraisal and Risk Management May 15-June 10, 2011, Economic Opportunity Cost of
Foreign Exchange, Duke Center for International Development.

                                                    34
       Local unskilled labor is paid US$3-5 per day. Since the local people employed for the
        Aliambata power house construction were previously unemployed, US$3 per day is
        assumed as an economic cost of labor and US$5 per day is assumed as a financial cost of
        labor. For skilled labor, US$12.5 per day is assumed as a financial cost of labor and
        US$10 is assumed as an economic cost of labor
       During the construction of the discontinued project power plant, unskilled local workers
        were hired for four person months US$5 per day (eight people worked in rotation),
        totaling US$400.
       2/27 of the cost of the 27 kilometer distribution system includes 2/27 of the following
        required labors:

            o Surveys by six people for one month (US$5 per day)
            o Cutting trees by three people (skilled US$12.5 per day) with sawing machine, 10
              people cleaning trees (US$5 per day) 1.5 months,
            o Erection poles, 254 poles by 6 persons, 8-10 poles per day (average nine poles).
              254/9=about 28, 28*6=168days (US$5 per day)
            o One Chinese national from Dili, US$50 per day for 2.5 months.

The net present value of the project is negative US$ (313,289.21) at EOCK of 11.46 percent.
There is no net benefit and therefore benefit cost ratio is zero. Table 1 below illustrates the
distributional impacts of the project. Due to the tax revenues and FEP, the Government and the
economy at large gain US$1,454. The local labor also benefits at US$270 through the differences
in the wage and the opportunity cost of unskilled labor. Foreign workers gain US$1,912 due to
the FEP. Even if the power generation based on seepage gas is not possible, the prepaid meter
installation component would have provided some benefits such as energy efficiency and loss
reduction, but this component was also cancelled due to the procurement issues. Also, even if
enough seepage gas was available for a power generation, the fact that the massive national
transmission and distribution network connecting power supply from the Betano and Hera power
plants to the project areas would make this GSHP redundant. Using the same discount rate, the
financial valuation of NPV is negative US$ (316,925.91). In sum, this project investment is
inefficient.
                 Table 1. Distribution Impacts (Present Value at EOCK of 11.46 percent)
                                                                         Distributional Impacts
     US$        Economic PV Financial PV Differences Local Labor               Economy/         Foreign
                                                                             Government          Labor
Investment          (261,342)        (262,553)         1,212                         1,212
Local Labor             (400)            (700)           300          270                30
Foreign Labor        (51,548)         (53,673)         2,125                           212           1,912
Total               (313,289)        (316,926)         3,637
Gain/Loss                                                             270            1,454           1,912




                                                   35
        Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                Names                                 Title                        Unit
Lending
Bisma Husen                      Senior Procurement Specialist                    EAPPR
Barry Trembath                   Consultant                                       EASIS
Leiping Wang                     Senior Energy Specialist                         ECSS2
Supervision/ICR
David Michael Chandler           Senior Financial Management Specialist           EAPCO
Joao Jose Augusto Gomes          Procurement Specialist                           EAPPR
Stephen Paul Hartung             Financial Management Specialist                  EAPFM
Bisma Husen                      Senior Procurement Specialist                    EAPPR
Norma L. Leon                    Senior Program Assistant                         EASIN
Shawn Swaranjit Otal             Consultant                                       EASIN
Eka Zarmen Putra                 Operations Officer                               EACIF
Selina Wai Sheung Shum           Consultant                                       EASIN
Barry Trembath                   Consultant                                       EASIS
Josefo Tuyor                     Senior Operations Officer                        EASPS
Leiping Wang                     Senior Energy Specialist                         ECSS2
Frederic Asseline                Senior Energy Specialist                         EASCS
Joel Maweni                      Operations Advisor                               EASIN
Natsuko Toba                     Senior Economist                                 EASIN
Simon Peter Gregorio             Consultant                                       EASPS
Jacinta Paula Bernardo           Consultant                                       EACDF
Olivio Euclides dos Santos       Program Assistant                                EACDF
Reinaldo Goncalves Mendonca      Consultant                                       MNSED
John Nyaga                       Senior Financial Management Specialist           EAPFM
Miriam Witana                    Procurement Specialist                           EAPPR
Ly Thi Dieu Vu                   Consultant                                       EASVS
David Bruce Whitehead            Financial Management Specialist                  EAPFM
Stephen Paul Hartung             Financial Management Specialist                  EAPFM
Evelyn Villatoro                 Senior Procurement Specialist                    EAPPR
Teri G. Velilla                  Program Assistant                                EASIN

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands (including travel
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                    and consultant costs)
       Lending
         FY07                                                             62.68
         FY08                                                             -0.01
                                Total:                                    62.67
       Supervision/ICR
         FY07                                                              0.00
         FY08                                                             32.11
                                Total:                                    32.11



                                                 36
                  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not applicable.




                                  37
                  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not applicable.




                                        38
          Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A.     Borrowers’ Completion Report

1.     Introduction

Timor-Leste has a number of locations where natural gas, likely to be of biogenic origin, is
emitted at the surface at a sufficient rate to support combustion. To use the seeping gas in right
manner where the energy resources can be another source of income particularly for the people
live nearby, the government of Timor-Leste together with the World Bank‘ support, intends to
harness this sort of resources to support power generation for communities in rural or even
isolated area as well as for those where the cost of diesel fuel is a constraint on delivery of
electricity. Based on this consideration the Government of Timor-Leste sought for support from
International Development Association (IDA) (World Bank), acting as trustee of Trust Fund for
East Timor, which signed the grant agreement on 30 May 2007.

A pilot development, the Gas Seep Harvesting Project (GSHP), was then planned near the
Aliambata Village, in the Uatolari Sub-District of the Viqueque District on the southern coast of
Timor-Leste. The proposed power plant consisted of one gas-fuelled engine-generator set and
two dual-fuelled (gas-diesel) engine-generator sets, each rated at about 150 kW. The project was
planned to provide a permanent seep gas collection facility together with a piping system, a gas
flare and gas regulation that will supply gas to the power plant.

There are 3 packages in the GSHP project and categorized under two main components;
Investment Component and Technical Component. Packages under the Investment
Components are:

Package 1: Design, supply and installation of Power Plant. This covers civil works for the power
plant (design, supply and installation) including gas collection          unit, power house, fence,
lighting, diesel storage tank, operator room, related amenities and access road. Power Station
(supply and installation) consisting of 3 lots. Lot 1 is the gas piping from the gas collection unit
to the power house, including flare and flaring regulation system. Lot 2 is the dual fuel
engine/generator sets, with step-up transformers and metering and control units. Lot 3 is the 150
kW gas engine, with step-up transformer and metering and control unit.

Package 2: Pre-paid meter system (supply and installation). This package is being terminated due
to procurement problems of the supply of pre-paid meters.

Package 3: 20 kV distribution system (supply and installation) which connected in three different
villages at Viqueque district.

Packages under the Technical Components include hiring a project manager for the duration of
the project life time, training for the technical persons of EDTL and continued socialization to
the local community nearby the project site.



                                                39
During the project implementations of GSHP there were issues encountered which affect
significantly its project outcomes. Solutions were given by both government of Timor-Leste and
the TFET to ensure that the project outcomes can still give the benefit for Timor-Leste especially
the local community at Aliambata.

2.     The Objectives of Government of Timor-Leste

The Government of Timor-Leste through its National Strategic Plan (NSP) in 2007-2012
intended to give its people the necessary infrastructure by 2020. In 2011, the Government of
Timor-Leste again emphasis its objective in the National Strategic Plan 2011-2030 that is to
provide electrification to all people of Timor-Leste and hopes that by 2015, all people of Timor-
Leste already have access to the electricity 24 hours per day. This NSP clearly stress the
importance of providing electrification in Timor-Leste. The Gas Seep Harvesting Project
(GSHP) is one among so many projects under EDTL management which supposedly produced
substantial amount of gas which can be used as renewable resources for power generation. Lack
of capacity and limited experience in implementing its many projects has been the key dilemma
which this government is struggling to overcome but never put in place during the
implementation of this project. Many continue questioning EDTL capacity in management of its
projects which have caused many of its clients suffered from severe electrification services
especially in rural area. Through GSHP the government of Timor-Leste aims to make this project
a new pioneer for attraction of investment on potential gas and oil production in Timor-Leste and
to create revenue for this country. It can be seen from the total contribution made by the
government of Timor-Leste to the investment component GSHP-P2 the 20 kVA distribution
systems which can then deliver the power from the Aliambata Power Plant. But this immense
objective could not be achieved due to lack of participation of top leaders in the government and
lack of coordination top-bottom with staff who handling the project; the GSHP does not trigger
much attention of people in Timor-Leste and many were not aware of the seeping gas near
Aliambata was about to be explored.

3.     Project Objectives

According to the World Bank‘s project development objectives of GSHP are to demonstrate the
technical and economic viability of harvesting seep gas from natural gas seeps to produce
reliable and affordable power for isolated rural communities in the south eastern part of Timor-
Leste. The government of Timor-Leste then agreed with the TFET project ‗objectives and move
forward with one commitment that the community will benefit from this project. DNAF later
named DGSC under Ministry of infrastructure and EDTL has financed in whole the
implementation of GSHP – package 3 and additional work which was added due to excessive
demand by the local community who live surroundings the project site on the electricity which
yet to be connected after the poles were erected. DGSC and EDTL then had to agree with the
variation to the existing contract and appointed the same contractor to do the additional work.
Many people near Aliambata had experience no access at all to the electricity and some had to
stop having proper electricity because of damaged electricity infrastructure during referendum in
1999. The GSHP in Aliambata would have become source of energy to generate more power to
the whole Viqueque district which eventually it could create another tourist destination in Timor-
Leste.

                                               40
4.     Project Design & Implementation

Government of Timor-Leste was attracted to the idea of having gas as one sources of power
generation which can then help the community near Alimabata improve their lives and boosting
their economy. The project site is situated at Aliambata Village, Uatulari sub-district, Viqueque
district. Before the construction of the power plant house was implemented, an Environmental
Management Plan (TFET funded) was carried out in order to provide guidelines on the impacts
of gas collection near Aliambata and the impacts of new construction of 20 kV distribution
systems to the environment around the project sites such as in Babulo, Borolalo, Alimbata,
Uatulari and Uatucarbau. Based on the EMP data the design of power plant house was made to
accommodate the proposed power plant house and to ensure that the construction of 20 kV
distribution systems had minor impacts to the population live nearby the project sites.

4.1    Procurement/Project Preparation Phase

The Aliambata GSHP-P1 – Power Generating Station has scope of works including Power
Design, Procurement, Construction, Testing, and Commissioning of a 450 kVA Power Plant
including Gas Collection Structure, Gas Supply Piping, Power House, Diesel Storage Tank,
Access Road, Flare and Flare Regulation System, Generator Sets, Metering, and all other
necessary accessories and controls. On the other hand, the Aliambata GSHP-P2 includes the
design, fabrication, supply, installation, testing and commissioning of up to 3,000 pre-payment
electrical meters, together with support systems for payment for electrical consumption and
collection of electrical consumption data. All Packages were delivered through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) method.

Before the procurement of GSHP took place at DGSC-MI, the actual procurement process for
GSHP – P1 was made at the National Procurement Ministry of Finance Timor-Leste. DNAF
later named DGSC under Ministry of Infrastructure worked to facilitate the National
Procurement and EDTL in dealing with procurement process of GSHP – P1 and GSHP – P2.
There were issues on numbers of contractor who were interested to bid for GSHP – P1. Due to
many delays in the procurement of GSHP – P1 and limited time frame to execute GoTL budget
for GSHP – P3, the GoTL then proceeded with its GSHP Package 3. The procurement of GSHP
– P2 was cancelled and never being implemented. This is because the same procurement
problems were encountered and after the Aliambata gas was found to be sufficient; all
investment components supported by TFET were cancelled.

A project manager (PM) was also recruited by MoI and financed by TFET to assist DGSC and
EDTL to manage the project. Nonetheless, very few documents were produced and little material
was available to support this ICR. Another complicating factor was that the PM was not full-time
based in Timor and his contract was only for duration of six months while the project period was
more than 30 months. There was no PM during the project conclusion and some efforts had been
made by the DGSC to report the vacancy of a project manager to TFET. EDTL admitted that
there was lack of communication between EDTL and DGSC which underestimated the need for
a project manager to support them throughout the overall design and construction phase. A
project advisor was requested to accelerate the procurement activities of contract for power
generation but the appointed project advisor was not supportive to DGSC & EDTL.

                                               41
4.2    Project Implementation Phase

During the project implementation phase some villages at Uatulari sub-district near the proposed
power plant such as Darabai, Waitame and Makadiki already have electricity connection from
Darabai power-plant. The capacity of the existing power plant is serving only 6 hours/per day
starting from 6 o‘clock in the afternoon until 12 o‘clock mid-night. Number of existing
consumers using the power is 700 consumers. In order to generate power, a 400 kVA generator
(GoTL funded) is used to replace the proposed power plant. The decision to put the generator is
made by the government of Timor-Leste after extensive demands made by the local community
near Aliambata to the government at district level. MoI through DGSC has therefore initiated
additional work to the contractor to supply the 400KV generator set and the MCB as per EDTL
standard including installation works. The Operation and Maintenance is not covered under the
GSHP project and this becomes a risk for EDTL at district level to perform operations and
maintenance activities.

4.3    Lesson Learned

Government of Timor-Leste through DGSC - MoI and EDTL has put many of efforts in making
this project a success within its limited capacity. Things were learnt during the project were the
findings on limited gas which should have been known earlier before established 20 KV
distribution systems. Furthermore, Government of Timor-Leste needed to encourage
participation of its staff to understand the proposed of the project so no more delays occurs in the
future projects. The government of Timor-Leste should have been able to gain more knowledge
during the implementation of this project by deliberately proposed to the TFET the need of
capacity building for EDTL engineers to deal with the technical aspect of the project and for the
DGSC staff to execute the procurement process properly.

5.     Evaluation on Government of Timor-Leste Performance & Bank Performance

5.1    Evaluation on Government of Timor-Leste Performance

During the GSHP, DGSC on behalf of MoI acted as an executing agency and EDTL acts as an
implementing agency. DGSC duties were works related to procurement and financial
disbursement whereas EDTL was fully responsible on the technical aspects of the project such as
giving support to the contractor regarding the specification of each material, assisting the
contractor during project preparation and implementation and socialization to the community
around Aliambata village. According to the contractor EDTL was helpful during the project
implementation especially when dealing with local community in each village where the 20 kVA
distribution systems were built on few disputed or sacred land. The contractor also said that
EDTL encourage participation of the population to be positive and supportive so they can then
have electricity at their villages sooner.

Lack of ownership by EDTL and DGSC is also another matter taken into account. No incentive
given to the EDTL project staff had impacted significantly the whole performance of EDTL
engineers. It was said that they deserve to earn some money-pocket because they have to work
extra to implement the GSHP. Travel allowance and per diem for EDTL project engineers and

                                                42
site engineers were not covered by either government funding of the package 3 – 20 kV
distribution system or TFET funds. So EDTL engineers‘ per diem and travel allowance are
covered by EDTL goods and services budget allocated within MoI.

5.2    Evaluation on Bank’s Performance

The Trust Fund for East Timor was fully responsible to finance in part the investment component
of GSHP. With total of US$0.85 million allocated to the investment component (power plant
component) and technical component, but only $0.37 million was spent. The underestimated
budget at the appraisal was made to finance the cost of partly investment components. After the
gas was deemed to be insufficient to generate power the remaining budget from TFET was then
cancelled. There was no provision under the agreement that stated the provision of using the
remaining budget to fund either new component or other component in case the gas was turned
to be insufficient to generate power. The Bank should have been able to give this provision in the
agreement so there are more options for the government of Timor-Leste to use the balance from
the grant.


B.     Borrower’s Comments on the Bank’s Draft ICR

The MoI has reviewed the Bank‘s draft ICR and indicated no comments on the Bank‘s ICR.

The MoF has reviewed the Bank‘s draft ICR and provided the following comments.




                                               43
44
          Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                         45
                          Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

All documents filed in WBDoc under P92055 Timor Leste Gas Seep Harvesting Project:

Asian Development Bank. 2007. Timor-Leste: Infrastructure Project Management (Cofinanced
by the Government of Australia), Technical Assistant Report. Project Number: 39151. May 2007

Asian Development Bank. 2008. Timor-Leste: Emergency Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project – Phase 2. Completion Report. Project Number: 36266. Grant Number:
8198 (TF). August 2008.

Asian Development Bank.2011. Economic growth to 2030 in Timor-Leste.

The Central Bank of Timor Leste. http://www.bancocentral.tl/en/bop.asp

Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste (RDTL). 2011. The Timor-Leste Strategic Development
Plan 2011 – 2030.
http://www.tls.searo.who.int/LinkFiles/Home_NATIONAL_STRATEGIC_DEVELOPMENT_P
LAN_2011-2030.pdf
http://www.laohamutuk.org/econ/SDP/2011/Timor-Leste-Strategic-Plan-2011-20301.pdf

International Monetary Fund. 2012. Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste: 2011 Article IV
Consultation—Staff Report; Informational Annex; Debt Sustainability Analysis; and Public
Information Notice. February 2012. IMF Country Report No. 12/24.

The Ministry of Finance of Timor Leste. http://www.mof.gov.tl/budget-spending/budget-
treasury-documents/?lang=en

The National Directorate of Statistics. http://www.dne.mof.gov.tl/index.htm

The Secretariat of State for Vocational Training and Employment (SEFOPE) and the National
Statistics Directorate. 2010. Timor?Leste Labour Force Survey 2010.

United Nations (2006). Report of the United Nations Independent Special Commission of
Inquiry for Timor-Leste. October 2, 2006. Geneva.

Wärtsilä . 2011. Wärtsilä receives major power plant order from Timor-Leste
Wärtsilä Corporation, Press release, 10 January 2011, at noon (EET)
http://www.wartsila.com/en/press-releases/wartsila-receives-major-power-plant-order-from-
timor-leste

Vaidya, K. 2008. Appropriate Wage Rate and Related Issues for Employment Intensive Public
Works Programmes in Timor Leste. Kirit Vaidya for Secretaria de Estado ba Formasaun
Profisional no Empregu (Secretariat of State for Vocational Training and Employment)
(SEFOPE) Government of Timor Leste and International Labour Organization. Dili, November
2008.

                                              46
IBRD MAP No. 35220




        47
                           124°                                                                           125°                                                                                      126°                                                                              127°



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Wetar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Island
                                                                                                                  I N DO N E S I A
                 10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Romang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Island
                                                       TIMOR-
                                                        LESTE                                                                                          Atauro
                                                                                                                                                                         Biquele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a i t
                                                                                                                                                        Island
                                                                                       Alor                                                                           Atauro                                   S t r
                                                                                      Island                                                           Berau                              t a r
                                                                                                                                                                                      W e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cape Tei
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lautém            Com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Laivai                                     Tutuala
                                  Rantar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maínal                      Cape Cutchá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jaco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Baucau
                                  Island                                                                                                                                                              Manatuto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bucóli                                                        Fuiloro                     Island
                                                                                                                                                                       Metinaro                                                                         Laga                             Los Palos
                                                                                                                                                               DILI                                                     Vermasse




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Seica
                                                                                                                                 Liquiça                                DILI
                                                                                                                                                                        DI              Lacló              Laleia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B AU CAU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AUCAU                   Luro       LAU TEM
                                                                                                                  Maubara                                                                                                 Venilale
                                                                                                               Cape                  Bazartete
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Quelicai       Baquia
                                                                                                          Corimbala            IÇ
                                                                                                                        L I QU I Ç A                                                    clo
                                                                                                                                        Railaco
                                                                                                                                                                  AI L E U                    AT U
                                                                                                                                                                                      La M AN ATU TO                                                            Uato Carabau               Loré
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cape de Loré
                                                                                                                                       Ermera                                                                                        Ossu                                   Iliomar
                                                                                                                                                                                      Laclubar                Lacluta
                                                                                                                              Fatu Beso                           Aileu
                                  Savu                    Sea                                                             Atabae         ER
                                                                                                                                      ERMERA                                                                         V I Q U EQU E Uatolari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UEQ UE                           Aliambata
                                                                                                                                                       Letetoho              Turiscai
                                                                                                                                                                      Maubisse                             Barique                   Viqueque




                                                                                                                                                                                               en
                                                                                                                                        Tata Mai Lau                                                                                                           Aliambata




                                                                                                                                                                                            Sah
                                                                                                                OB
                                                                                                              B OB ON AR O                  (2963 m)           Hato Builico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bé Aco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Gas Seep
                                                                                               Batugade
                                                                                                                              Maliana                                        UFAH
                                                                                                                                                                        M AN U FAH I        Fato Berliu
                                                                                                                                                               Ainaro                      Cie                                              Cape Deilubún
                 9°                                                                                                                                                        Same               re        Umaboco                                                                                                          9°
                                                                                                                                      Bobonaro
                                                                                                                                 d                AI N AR O
                                                                                                                                                     NAR
                                                                                                                                                                               Alas
                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                               l a
                                                                                                                                                       Mape
                                                                 Sacato                                                                                           Hatudo
                                             Oecussi                                                      s                           Loloto
                                                                                                                                                                               Betano
                                                                                                   I          Fatolulic                                                  Cape
                                                                                                                         IM
                                                                                                                 C OVA L I M A                                          Calétec

                             Kitrana
                                            O EC US S I                                    r                         Fohorem
                                           Nítibe      Oé Silo
                                                                                       o                           Tilomar
                                                                                                                                      Suai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      127°
                                                                                  m
                                           Passabe                            i                                                Cape Tafara

                                                                          T                                                                                                                                                                                                TIMOR-LESTE
                  To
                 Naikliu                                                                                                                                                           Timor                      Sea                                     G AS SEEP HARVESTING
                                       INDON E SI A                                                                                                                                                                                                          P ROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT LOCATION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                 0      10        20      30 Kilometers                                                                                                      DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                 0           10            20             30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8°                               RIVERS
DECEMBER 2006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 35220
                  To                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 Kuala                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                Lumpur                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                           124°                                                                           125°                                                                                      126°                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
