Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14669
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MlEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
(LOAN 3141-ME)
JUNE 8, 1995
Natural Resources and Rural Poverty Operations Division
Country Department 11
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =         Mexican New Peso (N$)
US$1                =          N$3.45
N$1 million          =         US$289,855
(December 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =      3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)             =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)               =      10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)     =      0.38 square miles (mi2) = 100 ha
I metric ton (m ton)         =      2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASERCA                   Services for Commercialization of Agriculture (Apoyos y Servicios a la
Comercializacion Agricola)
CETES                    Treasury Bonds (Certificados del Tesoro)
CONASUPO                 National Commission for Nutrition (Comisi6n Nacional de Alimentaci6n)
CPP                      Costo Promedio Porcentual
FAO/CP                   Food and Agriculture Organization, United Nations Agency
FIDEC                    Trust Fund for Commercial Development (Fondo para el Desarrollo del
Comercio)
FSAL                     Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GIRA                     General Rates Interest Agreement
GOM                      Government of Mexico
ICR                      Implementation Completion Report
PCR                      Project Completion Report
SAR                      Staff Appraisal Report
SARH                     Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (Secretaria de Agricultura
y Recursos Hydraulicos)
SECOFI                   Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Development (Secretaria de Comercio
y Fomento Industrial)
SEPESCA                  Secretariat of Fisheries
SNIM                     National Market Information Service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Loan 3141-ME
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ............................   i
Evaluation  Summary  ................................    ii
PART I PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT.                                1
Background.                                                 1
Project Objectives.                                         2
Achievement of Project Objectives .3
Macroeonomic policies .3
Financial and Disbursement Objectives.              3
Food Marketing Policies .4
Physical Objective .6
Institutional Development Objectives.               6
Implementation Record and Major Factors
Affecting the Project                  .9
Factors not Subject to Government Control.          9
Factors Subject to Government Control.              9
Factors Subject to FIDEC Control.                   9
Project Sustainability   ........................  10
Bank  Performance    ........................              10
PreparationlAppraisal .10
Supervision .13
Borrower Performance ......................  13
Assessment of Outcome .14
Future Operations .15
Key Lessons Learned .17
PART II    STATISTICAL TABLES  . .................... 18
APPENDICES ............................                                 43
A.    ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
B.    Borrower's Contribution
C.    Map (IBRD 23547)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Loan 3141-ME
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second
Agricultural Marketing Project in Mexico, for which Loan 3414-ME in the
amount of US$100 million equivalent, was approved on December 12, 1989
and made effective on April 12, 1990.
The Loan closed on December 15, 1994, compared to the original
target closing date of June 30, 1995. Final disbursement took place on
December 15, 1994, at which time a balance of US$157,363.76 was canceled.
This Implementation Completion Report was prepared by Jose Maria
Caballero of the Cooperative Program of the Fc"od and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO/CP), and Louise Cord of the Natural
Resources and Rural Poverty Operations Division of Country Department II of
the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office. It was reviewed by
Michael Baxter, Division Chief and Theodore Nkodo, Projects Adviser, and
cleared by Rudy Van Puymbroeck of the Legal Department.
The ICR is based on the findings of field visits, discussions with
government officials and a review of material in the project file. The field
visits and discussions with government officials were carried out by Jose Maria
Caballero from September 7 through 23, 1994. A copy of his Aide Memoire
is attached as Appendix A. The Borrower commented on the draft report, and
prepared its own evaluation of the project, which is attached as Appendix B to
this report.






ii
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Loan 3141-ME
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Second Agricultural Marketing Project (Loan 3141-ME) was
designed to consolidate the momentum achieved under the First Agricultural
Marketing Project (Loan 2262-ME), which had been approved in 1983 to
provide support to the entire marketing system from producers to retailers in
an integrated project. The Second Agricultural Marketing Project was
implemented by the Trust Fund for Commercial Development (FIDEC). It
was seen as a transitional step within the context of on-going, broad-based,
financial sector reforms that were being supported by the Bank's Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL, Loan 3085-ME) and which were expected to
be deepened by the proposed Rural Sector Finance Project, which was
appraised but not further processed.
Project Objectives
2.    As identified by the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), project objectives
were to help improve the efficiency and the transparency of the food marketing
system and to consolidate the institutional development of FIDEC. To achieve
these objectives, the project had two components. The first component was a
line of credit for US$176.1 million (99% of project costs) to be rediscounted
by FIDEC to participating commercial banks. The second was a US$1.5
million institutional strengthening component which would procure training,
studies, and technical assistance for FIDEC, as well as computer and
telecommunications equipment for FIDEC and the National Market
Information Service (SNIM). The Loan amount was US$100 million.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The line of credit was fully and rapidly disbursed during the first two
years of project implementation (1990 and 1991), assisting in the
modernization of the food marketing sector through the construction and
rehabilitation of commercial infrastructure. Nonetheless, the project did not
help FIDEC become a long-term financing institution. FIDEC charged to the
project most of its lending for investment subprojects (thereby complying with
the agreed split between working and investment capital), while reserving
other sources of funds for working capital subloans. As a result, between
1989 and 1994, slightly under 80% of FIDEC's total lending program was for
working capital.



iii
4.    The overall implementation of the institutional strengthening component
was mixed. Many activities were not fully implemented, such as the studies,
technical assistance and training programs for industry personnel. Moreover,
many of the activities implemented, such as some of the studies, had little
impact. A principal explanation for the poor implementation of this
component was probably that FIDEC staff did not believe that FIDEC was the
appropriate institution to implement it. Although the full amount allocated to
SNIM was disbursed for new computer equipment, the extent to which this
support improved the transparency of food marketing was never evaluated.
5.    FIDEC is a solid institution, which helps to ensure the sustainability of
the project. Nonetheless, several factors create doubts about the sustainability
of the project and the implementing institution. First, the absence of
subproject monitoring and evaluation data makes it difficult to evaluate the
impact of the project's investments. Second, FIDEC has not evolved into a
long-term financing institution and relies mainly on working capital lending.
Third, the future of FIDEC is not clear, given the 1993 banking law, which
affects all trust funds under the Bank of Mexico, and given the possibility of
major reforms in Mexico's rural financial sector.
6.    Bank Performance. The following flaws are identified in the project
concept and design.
(a)   An inconsistency between the project objectives and the
project design and implementation capacity of the principal
project agency. The main objective of the project was to
promote the modernization of the food marketing sector. The
principal mechanism provided by the project to achieve this goal
was a line of credit (which was 99% of the project costs).
However, promotion, organization, research, training and
technical assistance activities are also required. While some of
these ancillary activities were included in the project, their
overall importance was relatively small and the capacity of
FIDEC to implement them was relatively limited.
(b)   Inadequate attention to poverty alleviation objectives.
Although not specifically listed as a project objective in the
SAR, given the Bank's poverty alleviation objectives, the project
could have focussed more on the role of small and micro traders
in the food marketing sector.
(c)   No timetable for the disbursement of project funds. This
allowed the Second Agricultural Marketing Project to be fully
disbursed in less than two years. Had the project design
considered disbursement by tranche, monitoring on the part of
the Bank would have been easier, offering more opportunity to
observe, and correct if required, the orientation of the project.



iv
(d)   Poor specification of how FIDEC was to monitor and
evaluate the subloans.
(e)   The imposition of a restriction on the use of subloan
resources that could not be implemented. The limitation of the
project to support only food marketing activities could not be
fully implemented, since a large part of commerce, especially at
the retail level, combines the sale of food with that of non-food
items.
7.    Project supervision on the part of the Bank was also deficient. In
nearly five years there were only five supervision missions, all led by different
people. Between December 1990 and July 1992, when the project disbursed
nearly two-thirds of the Loan, no supervision missions were fielded.
Moreover, aside from the issue of infrequency, the overall impact of the
supervision missions on the implementation of the project is questionable.
8.    Borrower Performance. FIDEC's performance was highly satisfactory
as far as the disbursement of the credit line was concerned, but only partly
satisfactory in the implementation of the institutional strengthening component
of the project. The overall performance of FIDEC can be considered
satisfactory. Compliance with the legal covenants was in general satisfactory.
Nonetheless, there were some delays in the submission of audit reports, some
relatively minor procurement problems, inadequate implementation of the
covenants calling for FIDEC monitoring and evaluation of project subloans.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    The outcome of the project can be rated as satisfactory, as it was
reasonably successful in achieving its objectives. At this time, a future
operation with FIDEC does not seem justified for two reasons. First, the
financial markets have become more efficient and the need for government
second tier financial institutions which provide targeted finance is questionable.
In other words, the justification for the Second Agricultural Marketing Project,
which was to provide transition support to a financial sector undergoing
fundamental changes is now largely removed. Second, while FIDEC does
have some targeted programs towards small and low income producers and
traders, the majority of its lending is for medium-sized traders and producers.
Depending on the pace of future reforms in Mexico's food and agricultural
marketing policy, there could be future justification for Bank support in the
sector, but most probably through a different mechanism than the one
currently used by FIDEC.
10.   The Bank should focus future discussions with FIDEC on: assessing the
principal constraints of Mexico's food marketing sector and the role of the key
government and non-government agencies in lifting these constraints; the
extent to which FIDEC should continue to concentrate most of its resources on
working capital subloans; and, improving the monitoring and evaluation of
subloans by FIDEC and commercial banks.



v
11.   Key Lessons Learned. Three main lessons can be singled out.
(a)   First, project objectives should be clearly in line with the
mandate and the capacity of the implementing agencies. If
project objectives require an expanded or modified mandate for
the implementing agencies, then there should be formal
government support for this change and the project should
provide sufficient resources for the implementing agency to
carry-out its new role.
(b)   Second, frequent Bank supervision mission are critical,
especially in the early years of project implementation, to
confirm the validity of project objectives and the appropriateness
of project design to achieve these objectives.
(c)   Third, the use of a credit line disbursed through a variety of
commercial banks is difficult to monitor and evaluate by the
central responsible agency. Monitoring and evaluation activities
require the cooperation of the commercial banks, which are the
only ones effectively able to follow-up the implementation of
subloans.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Loan 3141-ME
MEXICO
PART I PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    The Second Agricultural Marketing Project (Loan 3141-ME) was
designed to consolidate the momentum achieved under the First Agricultural
Marketing Project (Loan 2262-ME), which had been approved in 1983 to
support the entire marketing system from producers to retailers in an
integrated project. The first project had channelled resources to three trust
funds, the Trust Fund for Commercial Development (FIDEC), the Trust Fund
for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas (FICART), and the Agricultural
Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (FIRA). The Second Agricultural
Marketing Project would concentrate on FIDEC, considered to be the most
efficient trust fund for directing resources to the marketing sector.
2.    The Second Agricultural Marketing Project was seen as a transitional
step within the context of on-going, broad-based, financial sector reforms The
latter sought to privatize commercial banks and improve their supervision
activities, reduce the multiplicity of credit support schemes and simplify the
Government's development banking system. During the preparation and
appraisal of the Second Agricultural Marketing Project in 1988 and 1989, the
Bank was supporting the implementation of these financial reforms with the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL - Loan 3085-ME). The reform
process was also expected to be deepened under the Rural Finance Subsector
Project, which was appraised in 1992, but not further processed.
3.   In particular, the Second Agricultural Marketing Project was expected
to support the on-going reform process in the financial sector in four areas.
First, it was to provide resources for long-term lending by commercial banks,
which was expected to remain limited until the restructuring measures had time
to affect the financial sector, and in light of the significant economic
uncertainty that existed at the time the project was prepared. Second,
FIDEC's lending policies were to be consistent with the on-going policy
dialogue under the FSAL, which called for new loans through development
banks and trust funds to be channeled without interest subsidies (i.e., at
interest rates above the institution's average cost of funds), except for low-
income producers in agriculture. Third, the project was consistent with the
policy agreements made under the FSAL, which required the Government to
redefine the role of each development bank and trust fund. Regular
consultations were expected to occur between the Govermment and the Bank to
discuss FIDEC's future, once long-term financial markets re-emerged.
Fourth, FIDEC would assist the commercial banks improve their performance
in loan evaluation and supervision activities.



- 2 -
Project Objectives
4.    The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of the Second Agricultural Marketing
Project identifies three specific objectives of the project. They were to: (a)
help improve the efficiency of the food marketing system through the adoption
of modem technology and improved marketing practices; (b) improve the
transparency of the system and thus competition through a better dissemination
of information on price and volume of product traded; and, (c) consolidate the
institutional development of FIDEC. These objectives were to be achieved
through two components: a line of credit for FIDEC, 80% of which was to be
used to finance investment capital to assist FIDEC become a long-term
financial institution; and an institutional strengthening component to finance
studies, training and technical assistance for FIDEC and equipment for FIDEC
and the National Market Information Service (SNIM).
5.    These objectives were not modified during the disbursement period.
They were reasonably clear and realistic, although somewhat general (e.g., the
SAR contains no precise definition of "modem technology" and "improved
marketing practices").
6.    The decision, however, of having an second-tier bank like FIDEC, a
purely financial institution with very few staff, as the only implementing
agency entirely responsible of achieving objective (a), which was the core of
the project, was inopportune. FIDEC could only promote the modernization
of food marketing activities with credit, not with other important inputs such
as technical assistance, training, technical studies, research, demonstrations,
and promotion of marketing organizations. The project did provide FIDEC
with technical assistance and training support to develop a methodology to
monitor and evaluate the food marketing sector and the distribution system of
selected products, as well as to improve the organizational structure and
technical expertise of FIDEC. However, FIDEC lacked the physical and
personnel resources to have the broad based role in the food marketing sector
implied by such project activities.' Moreover, given the Government's and
the Bank's focus at the time of project appraisal on the downsizing of
government financial institutions, it was hardly likely that FIDEC's resources
could have significantly expanded during the implementation of the project.
Finally, the objective of improving the transparency of the marketing system,
although relevant and worthy, was hardly likely to be achieved with
US$100,000 of equipment.
1.FIDEC, unlike other second tier financial institutions under the Bank of Mexico (such as
FIRA), has only five regional offices and a staff of only eighty people focussed on the
management of its credit operations.



- 3 -
Achievement of Project Objectives
Macroeconomic Policies
7.     The project did not directly pursue any macroeconomic objectives and
the volume of the loan was too small to have direct macroeconomic
consequences.
Financial and Disbursement Objectives
8.     The financial objective of the project consisted in the disbursement of
US$176.1 million (of which US$98.6 was from the Loan) to finance
investment subprojects (US$79 million from the Loan) and working capital
loans (US$19.6 million from the Loan) during a disbursement period of five
years. This objective was fully met during the first two years of
implementation, which is an impressive achievement.
9.     It was expected at appraisal that the cost of the subprojects would be
shared in the following way: 20  the final borrowers, 10% tb'e participating
banks, 56% FIDEC from the Loan, and 14% FIDEC from ot.ner sources. In
fact, the contributions of FIDEC and the participating banks were as expected,
but those of the final borrowers were much larger than anticipated: from the
appraisal estimate of US$35.2 million they rose to US$100.6 million, raising
their contribution to 41 % of total project costs. Thus, the total cost of the
project, initially estimated at US$177.6 million, was US$242.7 million.
Approximately one third of this difference is explained by the cost of the
building sites contributed by final borrowers in construction projects, and the
balance by other higher than expected indirect costs (taxes, feasibility studies,
advertising, etc.).
10.   Notwithstanding FIDEC's compliance with the agreed split of the
Bank's credit line between investment project subloans and incremental
working capital subloans, one of the sub-objectives of the project "to help
FIDEC to turn principally into a long-term financial institution" was not
achieved (para. 4). Originally, the project envisaged that only 20% of the part
of the Loan apportioned to the credit line would be used to finance incremental
working capital.2 Table 1 indicates that the project did not change FIDEC's
policy of focusing its lending on working capital; FIDEC charged to the
project most of its lending for investment subprojects (thereby complying with
2.Due to the high demand for this type of subloans, this was revised in June 1991 when, at
the request of Government, the Bank authorized a trans42r to working capital subloans of
US$ 8.5 million allocated to investment projects, thus raising to 28.3% the participation of
working capital subloans in the credit line. In January 1992, at the request of Government
and in view of the difficulties and slow progress in carrying out some of the studies
envisaged at appraisal, the Bank authorized the transfer of US$ 0.55 million from studies to
investment projects subloans.



- 4 -
the agreed split between working and investment capital), and reserved other
sources of funds for working capital subloans.
Table 1
Percentage of all FIDEC Subloan Disbursements for Working Capital*
1989      1990   j  1991         1992      .1973      1994
78%       72%         77%        81%        77%       78%
e Includes subloans financed from World Bank credit line and other sources.
11.   There are two reasons for the high share of working capital in FIDEC's
lending: (a) the demand for working capital is much higher than for investment
loans; and (b) FIDEC believes that (i) investment subloans usually need to be
complemented with working capital, (ii) many working capital loans can
contribute in their own right to the modernization of the sector, and (iii) banks
cannot meet all credit demand for working capital from their own resources
alone. There is substantial truth in (b) (i) and (b) (ii), although they still do
not negate the importance of investment capital. On the other hand, (b) (iii) is
to be explained by the interest rate advantage of FIDEC's subloans. If this
advantage did not exist, the competitive conditions of Mexico's credit markets
would force the amount of credit demanded for working capital to contract in
response to the tougher conditions of the loans provided with commercial
banks' own funds.
Food Marketing Objectives
12.   The project had two specific objectives for the food marketing sector.
The first was to improve the efficiency of the sector through the adoption of
modem technology and improved marketing practices. This was to be
achieved through the line of credit to be administered by FIDEC and the
institutional strengthening of the trust fund. To the extent that the line of
credit was fully disbursed, the project did improve the efficiency of food
marketing through the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure.
However, the institutional strengthening component was only partially
implemented, which limited FIDEC's ability to have a broad based impact on
the sector's efficiency (paras 18-24). Had the training, technical assistance
and studies called for under the institutional strengthening component been
fully carried out, FIDEC would have been able to anticipate, orient and
accelerate the modernization process in the food marketing sector.
13.   The contribution of the project centered mostly on the construction of
infrastructure, especially wholesale and retail markets, which absorbed 41 % of
the Loan. To this, can be added another 15 % in subloans to allow retail
merchants and wholesalers buy stalls and storage space in the wholesale and
retail markets constructed with project funds. Altogether, these two types of



- 5 -
subloans accounted for 56% of the Loan and 78% of the Loan allocated to
financing investment subprojects.
14.   Because of the absence of adequate monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms by FIDEC and the commercial banks on the subloans, there is no
systematic evidence on the quality and impact of the investment subprojects
financed by FIDEC. Indirect evidence suggests that the subloan portfolio
financed with project funds was reasonably sound. For example, (a) FIDEC
has a well running system to appraise loan requests, which is both fast and
fairly exact in the screening of information and the application of approval
criteria; (b) FIDEC personnel in the regional delegations and at headquarters
have a good knowledge of the sector and experience in identifying investments
which carry higher risks; (c) larger projects, and those which seem likely to
offer special difficulties, have to be directly approved by FIDEC's Technical
Committee; (d) commercial banks, which assume the full risk of the subloans
made with FIDEC's funds, submit the subloans to their own approval
procedures based on market and risk assessment criteria; and, (e) many
FIDEC borrowers receive more than one subloan and hence submit
information on commercial operations and financial positions on a more or less
recurrent basis, which allows FIDEC to carry out some ad hoc infonnal
monitoring of the borrower's development and financial standing.
15.   The impression on the quality and impact of project-financed
investments gathered by Bank supervision missions is mixed. While the first
three supervision missions (April 1990, December 1990 and July 1992) did not
raise issues of quality of the investments, the fourth mission (in May 1993)
observed significant problems in the quality, implementation and profitability
of the investment projects in retail and wholesale markets. The fifth mission
(in November 1993) concentrated on financial aspects and the compliance of
covenants and did not visit the field to assess investment quality issues. The
impression obtained by the ICR mission from conversations with FIDEC's
field staff, traders, managers of commercial enterprises and staff of the
commercial banks involved, as well as scattered visits to subprojects was that:
(a) the monitoring by commercial banks of the application of FIDEC funds to
the uses earmarked in the subloan agreements was adequate; (b) project
selection is demand-led, based on market criteria, although within the
eligibility norms of FIDEC, which have become broader over time; and, (c)
the quality of the investment subprojects financed with FIDEC funds is equal
or superior to that of the normal loan portfolio of the banks in the sector.
16.   The second food marketing objective was to improve the transparency
of the food marketing system and thus competition through a better
dissemination of information on price and volume of product traded. Although
the full amount allocated to SNIM was disbursed for new computer equipment,
the extent to which this support improved the transparency of food marketing
was never evaluated. Conversations during the fourth supervision mission
with SNIM staff suggested that project support, while useful, had a relatively



- 6 -
small impact on the service's performance and that the equipment purchased
with project resources had quickly become outdated.
Physical Objectives
17.   Since the project essentially consisted of a credit line, no physical
objectives were included in the SAR. A summary of the physical
achievements of the investment subprojects is provided in the Statistical Annex
Tables 5 and 6.
Institutional Development Objectives
18.   The institutional development objectives of the project were to (SAR
paras. 74-79):
(a)   improve the institutional environment by establishing a
methodology for analyzing, monitoring and evaluating the food
marketing sector, analyzing the distribution systems of selected
products, and strengthening the organizational structure and
technical expertise of FIDEC;
(b)   provide guidance for improving the operation of food marketing
through two special studies, one to assess the feasibility of
introducing auction systems in selected wholesale markets, and
the other to review regulatory issues which could affect
modernization and free entry in retail food distribution in
Mexico City;
(c)   eliminate skills gaps through a comprehensive training program
for 2,000 participants from FIDEC, SECOFI, SARH,
commercial banks and the private sector;
(d)   upgrade FIDEC's monitoring, evaluation and information
systems through the acquisition of computer, statistical and
communication equipment; and
(e)   improve SNIM by increasing its product coverage by including
fish and meat, better disseminating information to all regions,
providing information on daily volumes of each commodity
entering wholesale markets, and increasing the geographical
coverage from 14 to 22 wholesale markets.
An amount of US$1.5 million was budgeted to achieve all of the above
objectives.
19.   The fulfillment of the above objectives was mixed. A study was
carried out to establish a methodology for analyzing and monitoring the food
marketing sector, which was published as a book (para. 18a). The study has



- 7 -
analytical quality, but has more a theoretical than a practical orientation, and
lacks specific institutional proposals. Its recommendations have not been
adopted. Three products--citrus, tomatoes and meat (beef, pork and poultry)--
were selected for studies of the distribution systems (para. 18a). The studies
present valuable descriptive materials and carry-out some interesting analyses,
but are not action oriented and do not identify specific investment
opportunities. The impact of the three distributional studies has been minimal.
20.   FIDEC did not carry out two special studies, envisaged at appraisal and
included in the Project Agreement 2.05 (b,c,d) and 3.01 (b), mainly because,
given their nature, they were not judged by FIDEC to fall under its mandate
(para 18b). The study on regulatory issues in retail food distribution in
Mexico City was substituted by guidelines prepared in this respect by
Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion (SECOFI), which were sent
to the Bank with considerable delay. The May 1993 supervision mission
agreed that it would not be effective for FIDEC to carry out the regulatory
study in light of the existence of SECOFI's guidelines. Terms of reference for
the study on the introduction of auction systems in wholesale markets were
prepared, but the study was not carried out. FIDEC maintains it was not the
appropriate institution to implement the study given its position as second-tier
bank. In September 1994, the Bank agreed with FIDEC's decision not to
carry-out the study on wholesale auction markets for two reasons. First, the
study was outside the mandate of FIDEC. Second, FIDEC should not have to
carry out the study, as the decision to introduce auction markets should be
developed endogenously by the private sector, rather than be promoted by a
govermment agency.
21.   To review the organizational structure of FIDEC and make it
compatible with a computerized information and work environment, a
diagnostic study, followed recently by an integrated information proposal, was
carried out, accompanied by the acquisition of computer and communications
equipment (para 18d). Computerization and responsible management have
brought substantial organizational improvements to FIDEC and large gains in
efficiency. Thus, with approximately the same staff numbers of around 80
people the outstanding loan portfolio has nearly quadrupled in real termns
between 1990 and 1994. With its limited staff, FIDEC has programmed to
lend an equivalent of US$2 billion in 1994.
22.   FIDEC did not significantly strengthen its monitoring and evaluation
function, as agreed during project negotiations (SAR, para. 99e). FIDEC has
no systematic information on the performance of subprojects financed with its
funds, not even on repayment arrears of final borrowers and the default
portfolio of the participating banks. Part of the reason for this is the fact that
all credit risk is borne by the participating banks and none by FIDEC, which
automatically recovers maturing debts from the banks' deposits in the Banco
de Mexico. FIDEC, hence, has no incentive to monitor the subloan repayment
situation. Nor does FIDEC monitor the employment of the funds to make sure
that they are allocated to the uses indicated in the subloan agreements; this is



- 8 -
done by participating banks with their own procedures and at their own
discretion. Only when irregularities are suspected, does FIDEC ask banks for
written evidence of fund use. However, without appropriate monitoring and
evaluation of FIDEC subloans, it is impossible to fully assess the impact of
FIDEC investments on the sector. Furthermore, a key element in the Bank's
dialogue on financial sector issues with the GOM was on improving the
supervision and monitoring activities of commercial banks to ensure that only
quality loans were authorized (para 3).
23.   Being a second-tier bank, FIDEC has no capacity to monitor directly
the use of the funds, the repayment situation, and the evolution of the
subprojects; this can only be done by the first-tier participating banks. There
are, however, two things that FIDEC could have done: (a) to collect
information from participating banks on the repayments of FIDEC-financed
subloans; and (b) to organize a simple system to monitor on a stratified
sampling basis some basic parameters concerning the development and impact
of FIDEC-financed subprojects. FIDEC did contract a study to review several
FIDEC subprojects, to evaluate their impact and to develop a strategy for
FIDEC to improve its Management and Evaluation activities. However, the
study was not complete at the time of the ICR mission.
24.   The ambitious training program envisaged at appraisal was not carried
out (para 18c). Training courses to small traders were offered until mid-1991,
but were discontinued because the then new FIDEC management estimated that
it could not satisfy the demand, it had doubts about the impact of the courses,
and considered that, as a banking institution, it was not FIDEC's role to carry
out this type of activity. With its own resources, FIDEC has promoted and
financed many training activities for its own staff in a number of fields. It has
also prepared written and computerized manuals to disseminate FIDEC
financial services and to train staff from participating banks in FIDEC's
operating procedures. The staff of FIDEC's regional delegations regularly
carry out promotion and dissemination activities of FIDEC services among
commercial bank staff, traders and staff of commercial firms.
25.   During the project period, SNIM expanded and improved considerably
its food market information services, making a substantial contribution in this
area (para 18e). All the specific objectives proposed for SNIM in the SAR
were largely exceeded, with the exception of the provision of information on
daily volumes of each commodity entering wholesale markets, which proved to
be infeasible. It is not possible to assess how much of the success of SNIM
can be assigned to the computing and telecommunication equipment supplied
by the project.



-9-
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not Subject to Government Control
26.   No factors not subject to government control have been identified,
other than the performance of the Bank as examined below (para. 33).
Factors Subject to Government Control
27.   Three major factors subject to government control affected the project
positively. The first was the privatization of commercial banks in 1992. This
brought about a restructuring of the commercial banking system, broad
favorable managerial changes, enhanced competition, and stronger banking
dynamism. The second was the negotiation and final signing of the North
American Free Trade Agreement with the United States and Canada in 1993.
In preparation for this, and due in particular to the fear of competition from
foreign commercial chains, there was--and still is--an intense restructuring
process in the commercial sector, which has triggered investment demand.
The third factor is the decline of inflation rates in the 1990s, which has
decreased price uncertainty and improved the general price environment,
although interest rates continue to be high.
Factors Subject to FIDEC Control
28.   Competent FIDEC management and constant revision nf financial
policies and procedures in response to rapidly changing market circumstances
have been two major elements supporting the development of FIDEC. They
have contributed to FIDEC's success in increasing its volume of lending,
which allowed disbursement in less than two years of the entire credit line
provided by the Loan. This contrasts favorably with the slow start of FIDEC
in the 1980s and the delays in the disbursement of the first Loan (Loan 2262-
ME).
29.   Two accidental circumstances hindered project implementation in mid-
1991: the death of FIDEC's Director, and consequent appointment of new
management, which took three months to materialize, and the resignation of
the officer in charge of the Institutional Development Office of FIDEC, who,
together with the Director, were the persons most familiar with the project. A
good part of the project's historic memory was lost by these actions in 1991,
which more or less coincided with the completion of disbursement of the
Loan's credit line. In view of this and of the increasingly clear difficulties
found by FIDEC in carrying out the institutional development objectives
outside its institutional mandate, the ICR mission and current FIDEC
management believe that the project could have been closed at the end of
1991. However, no Bank supervision missions were fielded during 1990, nor
during the first six months of 1991 (para 35). The third supervision mission,
fielded in July 1992, discussed with Government the possibility of closing the
project, but no action was taken, mainly because it was believed that it would



- 10 -
be useful for FIDEC to carry-out the technical assistance activities and studies
proposed under the institutional development component.
30.   There were implementation delays in the preparation of the studies due
to the delays in the submission of terms of reference and the selection of
consultants, which could have been avoided. The deeper reason why these
delays occurred, and why some of the studies were finally not prepared, was
probably that FIDEC staff did not believe in the importance of carrying them
out and/or did not believe that FIDEC was the appropriate institution to
implement them.
Project Sustainability
31.   Although FIDEC is a stable institution, several factors raise doubts
about the institution's and the project's sustainability. On the positive side,
FIDEC has: a competent, well trained and reasonably well paid staff; sound
loan appraisal and disbursement mechanisms; a good rapport with commercial
banks with which it enjoys good reputation; and, fmancial resources to cover
its operating costs with the income from its interest spread. In addition,
FIDEC is very sensitive to market signals and has proven its ability to adjust
fast to changing policy and market environment.
32.   However, four factors could undermine the sustainability of FIDEC and
its investments. First, the Bank of Mexico will no longer serve as trustee for
any trust funds, including FIDEC after 1995, in light of the new 1993 banking
law, which gave the central bank autonomy from the federal government. As
a result, the future of FIDEC remains uncertain and there is a possibility that
it be eliminated, although conversations with government officials suggest that
this does not appear likely. Second, FIDEC could also disappear should there
be a major restructuring of the rural sector financial institutions, thereby
eliminating the need for specialized second-tier financial institutions such as
FIDEC. Third, the focus of FIDEC on working capital loans could also
undermine the institution's sustainability. Finally, the sustainability of the
investments undertaken by FIDEC has not been fully ascertained; as the
quality and impact of FIDEC's subprojects is unclear given the lack of
appropriate monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for FIDEC subprojects.
Bank Performance
Preparation/Appraisal
33.   With the benefit of hindsight, it is possible to identify the following
flaws in the project concept and design:
(a)   An inconsistency between the project objectives and the tools
provided by the project to implement these objectives. The
main objective of the project was to promote the modernization
of the food marketing sector through improved marketing



- 11 -
practices (para. 4). However, the principal mechanism provided
by the project to achieve this goal was a line of credit, which
accounted for 99 % of the project costs at the time of appraisal.
As highlighted in the Project Completion Report of the First
Agricultural Marketing Project, it is not possible to modernize
the food marketing sector with purely credit instruments;
promotion, organization, research, training and technical
assistance activities are also required.3 However, these
activities were given relatively little weight in the design of the
Second Agricultural Marketing Project and were allocated only
US$1.5 million (1 %) of project expenditures.
Moreover, to the extent that the above inputs were included in
the project, they were entrusted to FIDEC, which given its
reduced staff and its purely financial mandate had difficulties
carrying them out. The Bank's appraisal team did expect that
FIDEC's resources would be increased during the life of the
project, although the SAR did not detail the specific staff,
financial or physical inputs necessary for ELDEC to have an
expanded role in the sector.4 Meanwhile, in a letter to the
Bank at the time of appraisal, it appears that the Government
saw the trust fund as specialized financial institution that would
support long-term investments in the marketing sector (SAR,
para 68). This suggests that the Government and the Bank did
not fully agree on what should be the role of FIDEC at the time
of appraisal. The Government's reduced role for FIDEC was
more in keeping with its and the Bank's overall objective of
reducing the size of government trust funds and agencies in the
agricultural sector.
One alternative could have been to downsize the project's
objectives and link them more closely to FIDEC's financial role
in the marketing sector. Perhaps some pilot initiatives to
provide research, technical assistance and training activities to
the participants in the marketing sector could have been tested
by some other more appropriate organizations (e.g. SARH,
SECOFI, state agencies or civic groups).
(b)    Inadequate attention to poverty alleviation objectives.
Although not specifically listed as a project objective in the
3.The report was completed in December 1991, and only a draft version was available at the
time of appraisal.
4.The background section of the project's SAR underscores FIDEC's limited resources
(small organizational units, inadequate staff mix, etc.) to carry out an expanded role in the
marketing sector and the SAR comments that "these deficiencies would be addressed under
the proposed project (SAR, para. 60)."



- 12 -
SAR, given the Bank's poverty alleviation objectives, the project
could have focussed more on the role of small and micro traders
in the food marketing sector. No provisions were included in
the SAR or in the Loan Agreements to ensure that these groups
received priority attention from project resources. For instance,
no specific credit instruments were incorporated in the project
design to facilitate the access of small and micro traders to the
formal credit mechanisms supported under the project.
(c)   The imposition of a restriction on the use of subloan
resources that could not be implemented. The limitation of the
project to food marketing could not be fully maintained in
practice, since a large part of commerce, especially at the retail
level, combines the sale of food with that of non-food items.
More operational limitations would have been possible, for
instance--and this is what prevailed in practice--to restrict
subloans to investments related to trading in a combination of
food and other basic consumer products.
(d)   No timetable for the disbursement of project funds, most
likely due to the slow disbursement experience of the First
Agricultural Marketing Project. This allowed the Second
Agricultural Marketing Project to be fully disbursed in less than
two years. Had the project design considered disbursement by
tranche, project monitoring on the part of the Bank would have
been easier, offering more opportunity to observe and correct if
required the orientation of subloans. It should be
acknowledged, however, that a disbursement by tranche could
have jeopardized a rapid response to market pressures.
(e)   Poor specification of how FIDEC was to monitor and
evaluate the subloans. Although the SAR (SAR paras. 82 and
99e) indicate that FIDEC should carry out monitoring and
evaluation activities of the investments financed with project
resources, the variables to be monitored, the concrete ways and
means to monitor them, and the agreements that FIDEC should
reach with the participating banks were not spelt out. The latter
was particularly important in view of the difficulty FIDEC had
in monitoring and evaluating the investments in the absence of
specific agreements with the first-tier banks.
34.  In view of these flaws, Bank performance at preparation/appraisal can
only be rated as unsatisfactory.



- 13 -
Supervision
35.   Project supervision on the part of the Bank was deficient. In nearly
five years there were only five supervision missions, all led by different
people. During supervision, the project had four task managers. Between
December 1990 and July 1992, when the project disbursed nearly two-thirds of
the Loan, no supervision missions were fielded. Aside from the issue of
infrequency, the missions did not transfer know-how on financing the
modernization of the commerce sector, as FIDEC would have liked. Nor did
they manage to reorient a project showing increasingly evident design flaws.
Supervision missions instead emphasized deviations in the compliance of legal
agreements, some of which FIDEC had structural difficulties to abide by
(Statistical Appendix Table 10). The last two supervision missions (in May
and November 1993) rightly insisted, however, on the need to organize a
system to monitor subloan investments. Unfortunately, they did not get to the
bottom of the problem, which was to ascertain the responsibility that first-tier
commercial banks ought to have in this and to identify practical ways to carry
it out.
Borrower Performance
36.  In general terms, FIDEC's performance was highly satisfactory as far
as the disbursement of the credit line was concerned, but only partly
satisfactory in the implementation of the institutional strengthening component
of the project. Moreover, it was deficient in the monitoring and evaluation of
the subloans. The overall performance of FIDEC can be considered
satisfactory.
37.   Compliance with the legal covenants was in general satisfactory.
Nonetheless, there were some delays in the submission of audit reports as well
as some problems in the application of agreed procurement procedures for the
recruitment of consultants and for contracts that included civil works and
goods and equipment, although on the whole these problems were not
significant. Moreover, FIDEC, as a second tier financial institution, really did
not have the mechanisms to ensure that the final borrowers followed the
procurement procedures agreed upon with the commercial banks. This should
be paid attention to in the design of other credit projects.
38.   Conditionality with respect to the grace and repayment periods to be
applied to subloans were respected by FIDEC. On the other hand, compliance
with agreements relative to interest rates was controversial and was the object
of attention from supervision missions. The controversy refers to two issues:
the structure of interest rates of FIDEC loans, i.e., the difference in rates to
be applied to different types of subloans; and the interest rate level to be
charged by FIDEC to the participating banks. These issues are examined
below.



- 14 -
39.   According to the Project Agreement, the interest charged to the
project's final borrowers should not be less than the rates established in the
General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA). Under this agreement, two type of
interest rates were authorized: 0.95 of CPP5 for low income producers and
CPP + 2 points for other producers.6 7 During Loan negotiations, however,
FIDEC was authorized to allow participating banks to differentiate rates to
final borrowers according to the norms of FIDEC's Operating Manual. The
latter also separated loan rates into two types (called Schedule I and Schedule
1I), using different criteria than the GIRA. The Operating Manual
distinguished rates according to the potential profitability and social priority of
the proposed investment. As observed by the November 1993 supervision
mission, which examined this issue in depth, by approving FlDEC's Operating
Manual, the Bank implicitly waived GIRA. Nonetheless, the average level of
interest rates charged to final borrowers on FIDEC funded subloans remained
in conformity with GIRA.
40.   With respect to the interest rate charged by FIDEC to the participating
banks, the Project Agreement established that the weighted average rate
charged by FIDEC to the banks should be two points above FfDEC's weighted
average cost of funds. This was understood by Bank supervision missions to
mean that lending to participating banks would be at the CETES rate plus two
points, since the only two sources of borrowed funds of FIDEC, the Loan and
the Banco de Mexico financial facility, charged a CETES rate to FIDEC.
Under this interpretation, FIDEC did not abide by the agreement, for the rates
it charged to the banks were on average two to three points below the agreed
CETES plus two. FIDEC, however, put forward a different interpretation
based on the fact that the Project Agreement indicated as reference the
"weighted average cost of funds" and not the weighted average cost of
borrowed funds. Hence, FIDEC included in the weighted average cost of
funds the cost of its own resources, which of course was zero (excluding their
opportunity cost). This interpretation was discussed with the Legal
Department of the Bank, which considered it acceptable. FIDEC, therefore,
was technically in compliance of the covenant.
Assessment of Outcome
41.   The outcome of the project can be rated as satisfactory. The project
was reasonably successful in achieving its objectives. The project made a
contribution to the modernization of the food marketing sector (via the
provision of commercial infrastructure), which was a central concern of the
5.CPP (Costo Promedio Porcentual) is a reference rate published monthly by the Banco de
Mexico, which reflects the average cost of money in the economy.
6.The reference rate of GIRA was later changed to CETES.
7.Low income producers are those producers with net annual family income (from all
sources) below 1,000 times the minimum regional daily wage.



- 15 -
Government's sectoral policy. The project was also extremely successful in
disbursing the project's line of credit to FIDEC. The achievement of the
institutional objectives was mixed (paras 4 and 18-24). FIDEC did consolidate
its institutional structure during the project. The areas where the project has
been the least successful are transforming FIDEC into a provider of long-term
investment capital and in supporting FIDEC's own as well as the monitoring
and evaluation activities of the commercial banks. The sustainability of
project achievements is linked to that of FIDEC as an institution, which is not
fully certain in light of: recent changes in the banking law; the institution's
focus on working capital loans; possible policy reforms; and, the lack of a
clear assessment of the impact of subproject investments (para. 32).
Future Operations
42.   The issue of future operations can be broken down into two questions.
First, should the Bank have another project with FIDEC to support financial
investments in the food marketing sector? Second, should the Bank have
another project to support food marketing activities in a broader sense?
43.   The answer to the first question cannot be separated from the issue of
the whole operational program and future orientation of FIDEC. A plan of
operations containing FIDEC management views on the future evolution of the
institution, will be presented to the Bank together with its own evaluation
report of the project.' However, at this time, a future operation with FIDEIC
does not seem justified for several reasons. First, as the financial sector
becomes more efficient, given the liberalization of interest rates for
commercial banks in 1989, the privatization of the commercial banks in 1992,
and the decision to allow foreign banks enter the sector in 1993, the need for
government second tier financial institutions which discount to all actors in the
sector is questionable. In other words, the justification for the Second
Agricultural Marketing Project to provide transition support to a sector
undergoing fundamental change (para.3) is now largely removed.
44.   Second, while FIDEC does have some targeted programs to reach low
income producers and traders, it remains focussed on medium sized traders
and small commercial chains. The institution's present plan is to expand its
lending operations to middle and small traders, as well as shops and
commercial firms, which aim to modernize in response to increasing pressure
from internationally-based firms. FIDEC's ability to reach small and micro
traders will also be limited by the fact this group of traders are often not
served by commercial banks, which are FIDEC's principal vehicle for
channeling resources to the sector.9
8.Guidelines for the preparation of both documents were prepared by the ICR mission and
discussed with FIDEC management.
9.FIDEC does support some non-bank institutions, such as credit unions (as a second tier
bank), although the share of these institutions in its total portfolio remains small.



- 16 -
45.   Finally, no new IBRD loans are envisaged to be needed by FIDEC at
this time: it is a mature institution, due in part to the two IBRD-fmanced
projects; and, it has been able to raise, during the last three years, enough
resources from the Bank of Mexico to widely increase its operations, and this
support is likely to continue.
46.   The answer to the second question remains open and will depend to a
large extent on the pace of future reforms in food and agricultural marketing
policy in Mexico and on government interest in continued Bank involvement in
the sector. Should there be another Bank operation in the sector, it could
focus more on the provision of support services for marketing primary
products. It could assist the Government create the appropriate legal and
regulatory framework for storage, spot and forward markets and could also
provide technical assistance for small producers and traders to participate in
commodity markets.
47.   The Bank should focus future discussions with FIDEC on three areas.
(a)   Assessing the principal constraints of Mexico's food marketing
sector and the role of the key government (ASERCA, SECOFI,
FIDEC, CONASUPO, Solidarity, SARH) and non-government
(commercial banks, civic organizations, semi-fonnalfinancial
institution, etc.) agencies in lifting these constraints. In
particular, the Government should review how its programs are
serving the needs of the smaller and more marginal sectors of
the trading community.
(b)   The extent to which FIDEC should continue to concentrate most
of its resources on working capital subloans. The intention of
the Government when FIDEC was created, and during the early
years of its operation, as well as the intention of the two Bank
projects, was that FIDEC would complement the resources of
commercial banks to facilitate investment projects requiring
medium- and long-term financing. This rationale for the
existence of FIDEC seems to be still valid. It is true that, as
repeatedly argued by FIDEC, a mix of investment and working
capital loans is required, but the present balance is too tilted in
favor of the latter.
(c)   Improving the monitoring and evaluation of subloans. FIDEC
should aim to develop a simple, but reasonably effective,
monitoring and evaluation system that could be implemented by
the participating banks to review the impact of their loans and to
monitor repayment rates for the subloans.



- 17 -
Key Lessons Learned
48.   Three main lessons can be singled out.
(a)    First, project objectives should be clearly in line with the
mandate and the capacity of the implementing agencies. If the
project objectives require an expanded or modified mandate for
the implementing agencies, then there should be formal
government support for this change and the project should
provide sufficient resources for the implementing agency to
carry-out its new role. FIDEC effectively specializes in
rediscounting subloans to the commerce sector. In the project it
was asked to carry out training, technical assistance, studies and
organizational activities to support modernization of the
commerce sector, which were outside its mandate and for which
it did not have the resources to implement.
(b)   Second, frequent Bank supervision missions are critical,
especially in the early years of project implementation, to
confirm the validity of project objectives and the appropriateness
of project design to achieve these objectives.
(c)    Third, the use of a credit line disbursed through a variety of
commercial banks is difficult to monitor and evaluate by the
central responsible agency. Monitoring and evaluation activities
require the cooperation of the commercial banks, which are the
only ones in a position to follow up the subloans.
Consequently, monitoring and evaluation responsibilities should
be discussed and agreed upon with commercial banks during
project preparation and appraisal, and assurances received from
the banks that they will carry out these activities.



- 18 -
STATISTICAL TABLES



- 19 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial     Partial       Negligible   Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender concerns
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector development
Other (specify)
Likely               Unlikely              Uncertain
B. Project sustainability
Highly              Satisfactory            Deficient
satisfactory
C. Bank performance
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Highly
satisfactory                                unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome                              ****



- 20 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/credit title                 Purpose                  Year of           Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Agricultural Marketing    Credit line to support private      1983           Closed in
Project                   marketing investments at the                     December 1989
(Loan 2262-ME)           producer, w'.olesale and ictail
levels, plus some funds for
institutional development
2. Ninth Agricultural         A continuation of the credit       1987           Closed in
Credit Project             program managed by FIRA                           June 1992
(Loan 2837-ME)           consisting of short, medium and
long-term subloans for crops,
livestock and agro-industry, plus
some funds for productive support
programs
3. Financial Sector          Project aimed at Restructuring
Adjustment Project         Mexico's highly controlled
(Loan 3085-ME)          financial system, moving it toward
a market-based framework, while
at the same time reforming the
corporate and income tax system
and tax administration.
1989        June 30, 1993
Following operations                    None



- 21 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned         Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                                   N/A                     June 1987
Preparation                              July 1987 - February      July 1987 - 1st Mission
1989           September 1988 - 2nd Mission
October 1988 - 3rd Mission
Appraisal                                  February 15, 1989             April 1989
(departure)
Negotiations                               August 15, 1989     Octobel 29 - November 4, 1989
(start)
Board presentation                         October 15, 1989          December 12, 1989
Signing                                          N/A                  January 23, 1990
Effectiveness                                    N/A                   April 12, 1990
Project completion                        December 31, 1994
Loan closing (latest estimate)              June 30, 1995            December 31, 1994



- 22 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY 1990         FY 1991         FY 1992         FY 1993         FY 1994
Appraisal             26,290          43,390          61,340          80,200        100,000
estimate
Actual                 9,970           - 940          49,380          99,430         99,532
Actual as % of           37.9            186.5           162.0           124.0           99.5
estimate
Date of final disbursement - Last disbursement 11 May 1994



- 23 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Tables 5 and 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and OperatioiP'
1. Key Implementation/Operation Indicators in SAR Report
Estimated         Actual
A. Credit Line
1. Subloans for investment projects (US$ million)            71.05 2'            71.09
2. Subloans for working capital (US$ million)                 28.10 2            28.09
B. Institutional Development
3. Study on the methodology for analyzing, monitoring
and evaluating the food marketing sector                                   100% 3l
4. Study of the distribution systems of selected products                      100% 3 
5. Review of the organizational structure and technical
expertise of FIDEC                                                         100% 3l
6. Suport to a permanent advisory function in FIDEC
related to institutional development                                        60%
7. Study on the feasibility of introducing an auction
system in selected wholesale markets                                      not done
8. Study and action plan on regulatory issues that may
create barriers to entry and delay the modernization of
retail food distribution in Mexico City                                     20%
9. Training of FIDEC, SECOFI, SARH and commercial
banks staff and the private sector on various marketing
and financing areas                                                         20%
10. Skill upgrading of FIDEC's staff to improve marketing
expertise                                                                   20%
11. Acquisition of computers, statistical and telecopier
systems by FIDEC                                                           100%
12. Increased product and geographycal coverage of
SNIM, better disemination of information to all
regions and provision of information on daily volumes
on each commodity entering wholesale markets                                90%
13. Acquisition of computer and telecopier system by
SNIM                                                                       100%
Tables 5 and 6 have been combined because key indicators were not grouped in this maner in the
SAR.
US$8.5 million were transfered with WB authorization from credit for investment projects to credit
for working capital in June 1991, and US$ 0.55 million from studies to credit for investment projects
in January 1992.
See comments on the impact of the study in Table 7.



- 24 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Tables 5 and 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operator (continued)
III. Other Indicators
A. Investment Projects Loans
Amount1'                       No of Subloans
US$000             %               N'                %
A. Investment Projects Loans                                           71.058             71.7            2,068             59.4
1.  Construction of Facilities                                         43,743             61.6             350               16.9
Type of works/facilities
Supply centres                                                26,128            59.7
Retail markets                                                14,571            33.3
Self-service stores                                             615               1.4
Shopping centres                                                512               1.2
Others                                                         1,917             4.4
Loanees
Promoters(developers)                                         32,016            73.2
Wholesalers                                                    5,057             11.6
Merchant associations                                          4,571             10.4
Merchants                                                      1,283             2.9
Self-service stores                                             615               1.4
Agricultural producers                                          201              0.5
Range of subloans
0 to 83,000 US$                                                4,024             9.2              150              46.2
83,000 to 333,000 US$                                         12,664            29.0              119              36.6
more than 333,000 US$                                         27,056            61.8               56              17.2
2.  Acquisition of facilities                                           15,506            21.8            1,159             56.0
Loanees
Merchants                                                      8,058            52.0
Wholesalers                                                    7,181            46.3
Others                                                          267               1.7
Range of subloans
0 to 83,000 USS                                               11,710            75.5            1,118              96.5
83,000 to 333,000 US$                                          3,796            24.5               41               3.5
more than 333,000 USS                                                                                                  l
3.  Operation equipment                                                 5.750              8.1              157               7.6
Loanees
Merchants                                                     4.034             70.2
Self-service stores                                             403              7.0
Wholesalers                                                     677              11.8
Agricultural producers                                          636              11.1
Range of subloans
0 to 83,000 US$                                                1,599            27.8              145              92.4
83,000 to 333.000 US$                                          1,011             17.6               9               5.7
more than 333,000 US$                                          3,141            54.6                3               1.9
4.  Transport equipment                                                 5,340              7.5              380              18.4
Loanees
Merchants associations                                            17             0.3
Merchants                                                      2.681            50.2
Agroprocessors                                                   19              0.4
Wholesalers                                                    2,526            47.3
Agricultural producers                                           97               1.8
Range of subloans
0 to 83,000 US$                                                4,070            76.2              367              96.6
83,000 to 333.000 USS                                           987             18.5               12               3.2
more than 333,000 US$                                           283              5.3                                0 0.2
5.  Improvement of facilities                                             719              1.0              22                1.I
Loanees
Merchants                                                       203
Self-service stores                                             204
Wholesalers                                                     312             28.2
Range of subloans                                                                     28.4
0 to 83,000 US$                                                 719             43.4               22             100.0
100.0
Only the amount rediscounmed by FIDBC and charged to the WB loan included. Since only up to 80% of the subloans could be financed from the WB
loan, the difference being met from FIDEC and commercial banks own funds, the size of the subloans is bigger than indicated by the figures.



- 25 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
III. Other Indicators
B. Working Capital Loans
Amount I'                  N of Subloans
US$000            %             No              %
B. Working Capital Loans                                      28,097            28.3          1,413           40.6
Loanees
.   Merchants associations                                      6            0.0
.   Merchants                                              11,345          40.4
.   Self-service stores                                    2,324             8.3
.   Agroprocessors                                            157            0.6
.   Wholesalers                                           12,649           45.0
.   Agricultural producers                                  1,616            5.8
Range of subloans
0 to 83,000 US$                                           19,078           67.9          1,289           91.2
.   83,000 to 333,000 US$                                  8,064            28.7            120             8.5
.   more than 333,000 US$                                     955            3.4              4             0.3
Only the amount rediscounted by FIDBC and charged to the WB loan included. Since only up to 80% of the subloans could be financed from the WB
loan, the difference being met from FIDEC and commercial banks own founds, the size of the subloans is bigger than indicated by the figures.



- 26 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
III. Other Indicators
C. State-Wise Allocation of Subloans
Amount (US$ 000) 1                           CONAPO
Participation  Marginality
Working    Investment    Total            %        Ranking F
Capital      Projects
C. State-wise allocation of subloans
Aguas Calientes                              8        1,181       1,190            1.2           27
Baja California                          1,770        2,077       3,847            3.9           30
Baja California Sur                      1,009          171       1,180            1.2           28
Campeche                                     -           10          10           0.0            10
Chiapas                                    514          140        654            0.7              1
Chihuahua                                2,009        1.640       3,649           3.7            26
Cohauila                                 1,590        4,191       5,781           5.8            29
Colima                                     326          120        446            0.5            23
Distrito Federal                         1,472        6,609      8,081            8.2            32
Durango                                    171           76        248            0.2            15
Guanajuato                                 264          608        873            0.9            13
Guerrero                                 1,042        1,060      2,102            2.1             3
Hidalgo                                     22          434        456            0.5             4
Jalisco                                  2,830        6,034       8,865            8.9           24
Mexico                                     171        2,109       2,281           2.3            21
MichoacAn                                  478        1,476       1,953           2.0            12
Morelos                                    157          309        466            0.5            20
Nayarit                                    233        2,087      2,320            2.3            17
Nuevo Le6n                               2,418       10,443      12,861          13.0            31
Oaxaca                                     340          235        575            0.6             2
Puebla                                     455        8,628      9,083            9.2             6
Queretaro                                  126          657        783            0.8            14
Quintana Roo                             1.048        5,724      6,772            6.8            19
San Luis Potosi                            365        1,231       1,596            1.6            7
Sinaloa                                    649        5,955       6,604            6.7           18
Sonora                                   1,843        4,503       6,346            6.4           25
Tabasco                                  2,607          288      2,895            2.9             9
Tamaulipas                               2,768        1,050       3,818            3.8           22
Tlaxcala                                                   -          -              -            16
Veracruz                                   694        1,329      2,023            2.0             5
Yucatan                                    587          434       1,021            1.0           11
Zacatecas                                  126          250        377            0.4             8
Only the aniount rediscounted by FIDBC and charged to the WB loan included. Since only up to 80% of the subloans could be financed from the WB
loan, the difference being met from FIDEC and commercial banks own founds, the size of the subloans is bigger than indicated by the figures.
Marginality decreases with the ranking nuniber, I being the most marginal state.



- 27 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
III. Other Indicators
D. Participation of Commercial Banks in Project Rediscounting Facilities (%)
*        __                        ~=
Construction Acquisition  Operation  Transport Improvement Working Total
of facilities  of facilities equipment Equipment  of facilities   capital
D. Participation of
commercial banks in
project rediscounting
facilities (%)
Banpeco                      30.8        48.1        8.7        29.4         28.3       5.3  24.1
Bancomer                      17.4       16.4       10.9        16.0          14.2    25.1  19.2
Serfin                       16.3        12.5       42.8        15.8            -       7.5  14.4
Banamex                       2.2         3.0        3.5         9.8          5.1      15.8  7.0
M. del N.                     2.1         1.3       27.7         4.7          2.8       8.9   5.6
Atlintico                     6.8         1.6        0.9         7.4           1.4      5.7   5.4
Comermex                      2.7         5.5        0.5         5.1            -       5.0   3.8
BCH                             -         0.1        1.1         1.4         42.7       3.2   1.3
Promex                         1.5        1.2        0.3         0.4          5.4      2.8   1.7
Bancrecer                     5.8         1.1        0.3         0.6            -      2.0   3.3
Internacional                 5.9         2.6        1.4         2.1            -       8.1   5.2
Otros                         8.5         6.7        2.0         7.4            -      10.5   8.9
TOTAL                        100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0        100.0    100.0 100.0



- 28 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
III. Other Indicators
E. Physical Results of Project Subloans
E. Physical results of Project Subloans                             Amount
Construction of retail markets                                    58 units
Construction of self-service stores                               26 units
Construction of supply centres                                    11 units
Construction of cold storages                                     77 units
Construction of shoppping centres                                  2 units
Acquisition of transport units                                   262 units
Incremental number of shops                                    7,783 units
Incremental number of stores                                   1,298 units
Incremental sales area                                        181,252 m2
Incremental storage area                                      294,671 m2
Incremental service area                                      76,194 m2
Incremental parking area                                      203,354 m2
Creation of temporary jobs (construction)                      16,799 jobs
Creation of permanent jobs (operation)                        20,842 jobs



- 29 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 7: Studies included in the Project
Study                             Purpose                           Status                            Inpact
1. Methodology to study the food    Establish a methodology for       Completed in 1991                Competent study but highly
marketing sector                     analysing, monitoring and        Published as book in 1992        theoretical orientation. None of
evaluating the food marketing                                      the recommendations have been
sector                                                             adopted
2. Distributing of selected products  Analyse the distribution systems    a - Citrus Study completed    A mainly descriptive study, does
of selected products or product  October 1992                      not analyse potentials and
groups in order to determine                                       restrictions, international
investment possibilities                                           competitiveness and investment
potential. No impact
b - Beef, Pork and Poultry Study    A more analytical study with
completed June 1992.             more attention to foreign trade but
no analysis of potentials,
restrictions and investment
opportunities. No impact.
c - Toniato Study completed      The economic analysis and
September 1993                   descriptive material are superficial
but contains some interesting
investment recommendations in
hardware and software in the
tomato marketing chain. No
impact.
3. Organizational Study              Review the organization structure   Diagnostic study of potential for    The studies have served to adjust
and technical expertise of FIDEC    computarization completed in   FIDEC operations to a
in order to improve it.          December 1992.                    computerized environment, which
is now working. Have not served,
however, to put in place a
Study with and integrated        satisfactory monitoring system of
infornmation proposal and        the subprojects financed by
corresponding adjustment of      Fl DEC.
functions completed in June 1993
4. Auction systenm in wholesale      Assess the feasibility of        Not done. FIDEC is considering
markets                             introducing an auction system in    possibility of substituting this with
selected wholesale markets.      a study paid with its own funds
containing an inventory of sub-
projects in two states.
5. Regulatory framwork for retati    Review regulatory isues that niay    Not done - FIDEC argued that
marketing in Mexico City             create barriers to entry and delay    already existed guidelines on this
modernization of retail and      prepared by SECOFI in 1990.
distribution in Mexico City.



- 30 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 8A and B: Project Costs and Financing (US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate
Local Costs  Foreign Costs      Total       Actual 1/
A. Credit                    98.6           77.5          176.1         242.3
Sub-borrowers                                             35.2          100.6
Financial Intermediaries                                  17.6           17.7
FIDEC                                                     24.8           24.8
World Bank                                                98.5           99.2
B. Institutional Support     0.1            1.3            1.4           0.4
Contingencies                               0.1            0.1            -
Total Project Costs          98.7           78.9          177.6         242.7
1/ Since over 99 percent of project costs were in the form of subloans, it is not possible to
estimate the proportion of local and foreign costs. Costs as of August 1994.



- 31 -
MEXICO: SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 9: Economic Costs an Benefits
Financial analysis were carried-out of ten illustrative investment subprojects in the SAR.
These yield internal rates of return before financing ranging between 17 and 44 percent.
due to lack of detailed information on the assumptions made to prepare these plans it was
diffciult to recalculate the IRRs and it was not attempted. FIDEC has employed a
consultant to provide an assessment from the Government point of view of the results of
the project, who would report on the financial profitability of a sample of investment
subprojects financed with project funds.



MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL MARKETING 11 (Loan 3141-ME
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 10: Status of T,egal Coverants
Agreement and Section           Type of         Present Status        Original            Revised                   Description of Covenant                             Comments
Covenant             I/           Fulfilment Date    Fulfiilment Date
Loan Agreement 2.02 (a)          Financial                C                                                   Loan amount to be withdrawn in following        Bank approved changes to increase working
proportions: investment subprojects: 79% working    capital to 28% (June 1991); and to decrease
capital subprojects: 20% consultants services: 1%  consultants services to 0.2% (January 1992).
FIDEC equipments: 0.3%; and SNIM equipment:
0. 1%. Share of project expenditures financed by
the Bank vary by category and composition of
expenditure
Loan Agreement 3.01 (a) (A)      Financial                C                                                  Terms and conditions for the transfer of the
proceeds of the Loan to SNIM and onlending of
Loan funds to BANXICO, as trustee for FIDEC, at
a rate of CETES on funds denominated in CETES                                                to
and LIBOR + 0.5 percentage points on funds
denominated in dollars.
Loan Agreement 3.01 (a) (B)      Financial                C                                                   The Guarantor should make provision for specific
annual budgetary allocations of all amounts
required to cover: (i) the difference, if any,
between the LIBOR + 0.5 percentage points of the
CETES Rate, and the interest rate charged on the
proceeds of the loan onlent by BAN XICO, as
trustee for FIDEC and (ii) financial intermediation
and operating costs of FIDEC in respect fo Part A
of the Project (Financing of Subloans)
Loan Agreement 3.01 (b) (c)      Managerial               C                                                  The Borrower shall cause SNIM to carry out Part
B.5 of the Project (Acquisition of FIDEC computer
equipment, statistical information systems and
documentation conceming food marketing) and will
enter into an agreement with SNIM on the terms
and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 of the LA.



MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL MARKETING II (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Agreement and Section            Type of        Prnent Status         Original             Revised                   Deeeription of Covenant                            Comments
Covenant             1/           Fulfillment Date    Fulfillment Date
Loan Agreement 3.02 (ii)          Managerial               C                                                  Goods for Part B.5 shall be procured according to
established commercial practices acceptable to the
Bank.
Loan Agreement 4.01 (a), (b), (c)   Financial             CD          June 30 annually                        The Borrower shall maintains separate records asd    Submission delays
accounts in accordance with appropriate auditing
principales; shall furnish to the Bank audit
statements for each fiscal year, including a separate
audit opinion on statements of expenditure; and
shall furnish to the Bank certified statements each
month of the Special Account.
Loan Agreement Schedule 5 C (b)   Financial               CD          June 30 anmually                        Borrower to furnish to the Bank audit of annual  Submission delays                              Li
(ii) (A) and FIDEC Project                                                                                    financial statements of SNIM and FIDEC
Agreement4.01 and 4.02 (a)
FIDEC Project Agreement          Managerial                C                                                  BANXICO declares its commitments to the
2.01 (a)                                                                                                      objectives of the Project as stated in Schedule 2 of
LA 'Due diligence- covenant
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.02 (a)  Financial                C                                                  BANXICO shall rediscount or otherwise finance   See Note 2
(i)                                                                                                           Subloans umade by Participating Banks (PBs) at
such interest rates that the weighted average rate of
interest charged by FIDEC to the PB's provides
FIDEC a margin of at least two percentage points
over FIDEC's weighted average cost of funds.
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.02 (a)  Financial                C                                                  Each PB is obligated to repay to BANXICO the
(ii) Scbedule 2, Section I (a)                                                                                principal amount rediscountod as described in
Schedule 2 of PA.



MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL MARKETING 11 (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Agreement and Section            Type of         Present Status        Original             Revised                    Description of Covenant                             Comments
Covenant              1/           Fulfillment Date    Fulfillment Date
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.02 (a)   Financial               C                                                    The proponion of each Subproject to be
(ii) Schedule 2, Sections I (b) and                                                                             rediscounted or otherwise financed by BANXICO
2 (a)                                                                                                           shall not exceed 70% of the costs of the
Subproject, at least 20% of the cost will be paid by
the Beneficiary an each PB shall contribute at least
10% of the cost of the subproject.
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.02 (a)   Financial               C                                                    The amortization period in respect of each
(ii) Schedule 2, Section 2 (b)                                                                                  Subproject for an investment project shall be not                                                 I
more than ten years an the grace period shall be
not more than two years; the amortization period in                                       l       .
respect of each subproject for a Working Capital
Project shall be at least three months and not ntore                                              I
than one year and there shall be no grace period
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.02 (a)   Financial               C                                                    Each peso-denominated Subproject shall bear at   See note 3
(ii) Schedulc L, Section 2 (c)                                                                                  least the interest rate established in the General
Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) and each dollar
denominated Subproject shall bear interest at the
rate of at least the LIBOR rate plus four percentage
points per annum
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.02 (a)   Financial               C                                                    All subloans above US$6 million shall be approved
(ii) Schedule 2, Section 3                                                                                      by the Bank.
Loan Agreement 3.02 (i)           Managerial               CP                                                   Goods, works and consultants' services for Parts A    FIDEC hired Copers and Lybrand for a
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.03                                                                                    an B (1-4) of the Project financed out of the    diagnostic and MIS study without prior
proceeds of the loan shall be procured according to   approval of TOR by the Bank, and has
Schedule I of PA.                               submitted withdrawal application for taxes
on consultants' services.



MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL MARKETING II (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Agreement and Section            Type of         Present Status        Original             Revised                    Description of Covenant                             Comments
Covenant              1/           Fulfillment Date    Fulfillment Date
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.05 (a)   Technical                                                                    BANXICO, as trustee for FIDEC, shall carry out
the technical assistance under Part B. I of the
Project:
CD          B. I (a) 7.31.90                         Part B. I (a) to establish of a methodology for  The study under Part B. I (a) completed in
analyzing and monitoring the food marketing      1992. The study had a theoretical orientation
sector;                                          and none of its recomunendations were
adopted by FIDEC.
CD          B. I (b) 9.30.90                         Part B. I (b) to analyze the distribution systems of    Studies under Part B. I (b) were delayed but
selected products or product groups to determine  are completed. Meat and citrus studies had
investment possibilities; and                    no impact and FIDEC finds the study on
tomatoes unsatisfactory.
CD          B.l (c) 12.31.90                         Part B.l (c) to review the organization structure  The study under Part B.l (c) was carried out
and techbtcal expertise of FIDEC in order to     by Coopers and Lybrand and was completed
improve them.                                    October 1993.



MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL MARKETING li (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Agreement and Section            Type of         Present Status        Original             Revised                   Description of Covenant                              Comments
Covenant              1/           Fulrillment Date    Fulillment Date
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.05 (b)  Technical                                                                     BANXICO, as trustee for FIDEC shall carry-out
and complete the study under:
NC          B.2 (a): 12.31.90                       Part B.2 (a) to determine the feasibility of     Study not completed.
introducing an auction system in wholesale
markets; and
Part B.2 (b) to review the regulatory framework  FIDEC adopted guidelines on the regulatory
applicable to food distribution in Mexico City   framework prepared by SECOFI in 1990.
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.05 (c)   Technical               NC                                                   FtDrC shall furnish the Bank with a copy of the  Study not carried-out.
study forming Part B.2 (a) of the Project (study on
auction markets) and shall provide the Bank with a
opr,)rtu,fry to exchange views and comment
thereon and on the plans of action to implement the
recommendations.
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.05 (d)  Technical               NC                                                   Upon completion of the study forming Part B.2 (b)   Study not done by FIDEC. Guidelines
and 3.01 (b)                                                                                                   of the Project (study reviewing the regulatory   prepared by SECOFI adopted but do not
framework of food marketing in Mexico City),    substitute for the study, they were sent with
BANXICO as Trustee for FIDEC, shall furnish to    delay and have not been discussed
the Bank and Guarantor a copy of its findings and
reconmendationsand provide the Bank and the
Guarantor an opportunity to exchange views and
comment



MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL MARKETING 11 (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Agrvement and Section            Type of         Presnt Status          Orginal             Revised                    Description of Covenant                              Comments
Covenant               1           Fulfillment Date    Fulfillment Date
FIDEC Project Agreement 2.06 (b)  Managerial               CP                                                   BANXICO, as a Trustee for FIDEC, shall not later  Progress reports received but PBs do not
than 60 days, after the end of each fiscal year,  have separate data bases for FIDEC
provide to the Bank an annual progress report    subloans, and cannot report on arrears.
summarizing (i) performance achieved in carrying
out Parts A, B.1, B.2, and B.3 and BA of the
Project, Subproject disbursement by categories
(beneficiaires, principal activities an Subproject
size), amounts rediscounted or other financed by
FIDEC under Past A of the Project and arrears
experienced by commercial banks; (ii) a summary
statement of changes in FIDEC's staffing on an
overall and regional basis and (iii) a report of the
technical assistance and training provided under
Parts B.1, B.2 B.3 and B.4 of the project.                                                      (A
FIDEC Project Agreement 3.03      Managerial               CP                                                   BANXICO shall from the date of the PA through     This position was not filled since mid-1991.
the execution of the Project maintain an officer
with adequate qualifications and experience
reporting directly to the Director General of
FIDEC, responsible for the institutional
development of FIDEC and the coordination and
superivision of the activites under Part B. I of the
Project.



- 38 -
MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL MARKETING II (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Notes
1. Present Status
C:      Covenant complied with
CD:    Complied with after delay
CP:    Complied with partially
NC:    Not complied with
2. FIDEC did not comply with maintaining a 2 point margin over its costs of "borrowed" funds
in 1991. This definition of "costs of funds" had been, used by the first and all subsequent
supervision missions to assess compliance with ti-is covenant. The LEGAL Department was
consulted on the legal definition of "costs of funds" acording to the Loan documents. LEGAL
informed that the term is ambiguous and not necessarily refers to borrowed funds. In addition,
the fifth supervision mission noted some inconsistency in the content of Section 3.01 (a) (B) (ii),
which requires the Gurantor to cover, through budgetary provisions, the financial intermediation
and operating costs of FIDEC in respect of Part A of the Project (see also SAR para. 85), and
the present covenant which requires FIDEC to maintain an intermediation margin of 2 points
above its weighted average cost of funds. In view of the above, and that FIDEC has interpreted
"the weighted average cost of funds" as the costs of all funds, incluidng equity, FIDEC is rated
in full compliance with this covenant.
3. A review of FIDEC's interest rates as approved by the Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de
Hacienda y Credito Publico), undertaken by the fifth supervision mission suggests that FIDEC
has complied with maintaining the level of interest rates in accordance with GIRA throughout
the life of the project. However, FIDEC has differentiated its discounts according to the
profitability and the social priority of the investments whereas GIRA marketing rates differ
depending on the level of income of producers. Thus, the level of FIDEC's interest rates was
correct but the structure was different from GIRA's. The Bank waived GIRA until October
1991, but did not officially respond to the Secretary of Finance (SHCP) request to amend the
structure of the GIRA marketing rates. A December 1991 supervision mission agreed with
FIDEC that small producers should receive the lower interest rates, and concluded that GIRA
no longer needed to be amended. The mission's report does not make any reference to subloans
to larger proucers that could qualify for the most preferential rates based on the profitability and
social priority of their investments according to FIDEC's interest rates structure.



- 39 -
MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL MARKETING 11 (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement  Describe and comment on lack of compliance
number
and title
OD.       Financial   Although this O.D. would have been highly
8.30      Sector      relevant, it was issued after Board approval. The
Operations  directed credit component and the below market
interest rates provided by the borrower were
generally inconsistent with guidelines presented
in the O.D.



- 40 -
MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL MARKETING II (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle      Planned                Revised                Actual
Week \1    US$ \1      Weeks      US$ \1     Weeks      US$ \2
Through appraisal                                                     54.1    162,300
Appraisal-Board                                                      53.7    161,100
Board-effectivenes                                                    n.a.    n.a.
Supervision                                                          42.5    127,500
Completion 1/                                                         6.5     19,500
Total                                                                156.8   470,400
1/ Estimate
\1 Not Available.
\2 Calculating using an average cost of US$3,000/staff week.



NIEXICO: AGRICUI.1lJRAL NIARKETING 11 (I oan 3141-NIE)
Annex A: Statisicaii Talhlcs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project cycle         Nloiitli/year   Number of personis   I)ays in field    Specialized stair   Impiementatioin  Development  'Fypes of
skills represented       status            impact       problems
IUbrough aippraisal
Identi fication                     June 1987                1           5 days          Financial Analyst                                                    .
Preparation                         July 1987                I            2 days          Financial Analyst
Preparation                         September                I            10 days        Financial Analyst
1988
1lic Appiaisal                      October                 5            21 days         Financial Analyst,
1988                                                 Economist (3),
linstitutonal
Specialist
Apprpisal                           March 1989              3             10 days        Financial Analyst,
ECOnomist,
Institutional
Specialist
Appraisal through Board a[pproval
Board approval through effectiveness



MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL MARKETING 11 (Loan 3141-ME)
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Supervision
1St.                              April 90            1                 9       Financial Analyst          2              2
2nd.                               Dec. 90            1                 9        Financial Analyst         2               1
3rd.                               July 92            1                11       Economnist                 2
4rd.                               May 93             2                 9       Economist                  2              2
5th.                              Nov. 93             1                 5       Operations Analysts        2              2
Completion                          Sept. 94             1                14       Economist



- 43 -
APPENDICES



- 44 -
APPENDIX A
AYUDA MEMORIA
SEGUNDO PROYECTO DE COMERCIALIZACION AGRICOLA (PRESTAMO 3141-ME)
ISION DE PREPARACION DEL INFORME TERMINAL
Introducci6n
Una mision del Programa Cooperativo FAO-Banco Mundial visit6
Mexico del 8 al 22 de septiembre de 1994 para preparar el informe
terminal del Segundo Proyecto de Comercializaci6n Agricola
(prestamo 3141-ME).  La misi6n trabaj6 con el FIDEC en el Distrito
Federal y visit6 Monterrey y Merida, donde se entrevist6 con
delegados del FIDEC, comerciantes y funcionarios de bancos
comerciales, y visit6 proyectos financiados con fondos del FIDEC.
En la ciudad de Mexico la misi6n se entrevist6 tambi6n con el SNIM.
La misi6n agradece sinceramente la hospitalidad del FIDEC y las
facilidades prestadas para cumplir su labor.
La misi6n discuti6 con la direcci6n del FIDEC la preparaci6n
del informe de este de evaluaci6n terminal del proyecto y del plan
de operaciones futuras, y dej6 recomendaciones escritas para la
preparaci6n de ambos documentos (Anexos 1 y 2).
El presente ayuda memoria fue presentado y discutido en una
reuni6n con la direcci6n del FIDEC y representantes de la SHCP y de
NAFIN celebrada el 21 de septiembre de 1994. Los comentarios de
esta reuni6n al ayuda memoria han sido incorporados en el texto.
Caracteristicas y Objetivos del Proyecto
El proyecto consisti6 en una linea de credito de D6lares EEW
99.1 millones del BM al FIDEC para financiar, a traves de la banca
comercial, inversiones en la construccion y adquisici6n de
infraestructura, equipo y capital de operaci6n del sector de
comercializaci6n de alimentos. Complementariamente se autorizaron
D6lares EEUU 900,000 para asistencia tecnica, incluyendo estudios,
capacitaci6n y adquisici6n por el FIDEC y el SNIM de sistemas y
equipos de informatica y telecomunicaciones.
Los objetivos del proyecto fueron:
(1) mejorar la eficiencia del sistema de comercializaci6n de
alimentos mediante la adopcion de tecnologia moderna y la
mejora de las practicas comerciales;
(2)  mejorar  la  transparencia,  y  como  consecuencia  la
competitividad,   del   sistema   mediante   una  mejor
divulgaci6n de informaci6n sobre precios y volf2menes



- 45 -
transados; y
(3)  consolidar el desarrollo institucional del FIDEC.
Diferencias con el Primer Proyecto de Comercializacion
de Alimentos (Pr6stamo 2262-ME)
El Segundo Proyecto de Comercializaci6n de Alimentos fue
resultado y continuaci6n de otro similar iniciado en 1983 con un
prestamo del BM (numero 2262-ME) de D6lares EEUU 115 millones. Las
principales diferencias entre el primer y segundo proyecto fueron
las siguientes:
(1) se ampli6 la cobertura, que en el primer proyecto
abarcaba s6lo productos perecederos, a los alimentos en
general;
(2)  las tres agencias ejecutoras del primer proyecto, FIDEC,
FICART y FIRA, fueron sustituidas por una sola, FIDEC, en
el segundo;
(3)  se simplificaron las subcategorias de los pr6stamos, quo
el primer proyecto eran 14, a s6lo 2 en el segundo;
(4) en el segundo proyecto no se establecieron metas
cuantitativas para los prestamos segqun categorfas de
beneficiarios (productores, mayoristas, minoristas,
cadenas voluntarias y productores de bajos ingresos);
(5)  el porcentaje financiable con cargo al prestamo del BM de
la parte de los prestamos financiados por las unidades
ejecutoras se ampli6 de 60 a 80; y
(6)  la duraci6n prevista para el desembolso de la linea de
credito aument6 de dos afios y medio a cinco.
Problemas en la Concepcion y Diseno del Proyecto
En base a la experiencia adquirida durante la ejecuci6n es
posible identificar retrospectivamente las siguientes debilidades
en la concepci6n y disenio del proyecto:
(1)  La concepci6n del proyecto fue ambigua pues contenia dos
aspectos no siempre conciliables: de una parte se
concebia como proyecto de credito, a ser ejecutado por
una entidad puramente financiera, de otro como proyecto
sectorial de desarrollo del comercio que deberia impulsar
la modernizacion del sector comercio. Como advirti6 el
informe terminal del prestamo 2262-ME, no se puede
alcanzar este segundo objetivo con instrumentos de
cr&dito solamente, se necesitan ademas actividades de
promoci6n, organizaci6n, investigaci6n, capacitacion y
asistencia tecnica.  Estas actividades tuvieron escaso
peso en el disenio del proyecto, y en la medida en quo



- 46 -
fueron incluidas se encomendaron al FIDEC, que por su
reducido presupuesto, escaso personal y objetivos
financieros y no de asistencia tecnica u organizativa,
tenia dificultad para cumplirlas.   Para lograr mayor
impacto modernizador en el sector, y especialmente en la
franja de pequefios comerciantes, la linea de cr6dito
tendria que haber ido acompaniada de un amplio programa de
promoci6n a ser ejecutado por una instituci6n de
desarrollo y no por el FIDEC, en forma similar a lo que
se hizo con el desarrollo de la informaci6n de mercados
en el primer proyecto a traves del SNIM. El FIDEC se vio
sometido a una tensi6n entre su mandato de banco de
segundo piso y su compromiso de realizar estudios,
capacitaci6n  y  asistencia  tecnica  al  sector.    El
resultado es que estos compromisos o no se cumplieron o
lo fueron con dificultad y en forma poco satisfactoria.
(2)  A pesar de que, por razones de equidad y eficiencia, el
apoyo a los pequefios comerciantes y la modernizaci6n del
pequefio  comercio  fueron  parte  importante  de  la
justificaci6n del proyecto, ni en el documento de
evaluaci6n ex ante ni en el acuerdo de prestamo se
establecieron compromisos especificos para que los
pr6stamos con recursos del proyecto se orientaran
preferentemente a este fin; tampoco se delinearon
instrumentos adecuados para alcanzarlo, lo que constituy6
una debilidad en la preparacion del proyecto.
(3)  La limitaci6n del proyecto al comercio de alimentos fue
una restricci6n innecesaria, que no se pudo mantener en
la practica, pues gran parte del comercio, especialmente
el minorista, combina la venta de alimentos con otros
generos. Hubieran sido posibles otras limitaciones mas
operativas, por ejemplo --y esto fue lo que se aplic6 en
la practica-- restringir los pr&stamos al comercio de
productos de primera necesidad en general.
(4)  -Debido  probablemente  a  la  experiencia  del  primer
proyecto, en que se desembols6 mas despacio de lo
esperado, en el disefno del segundo proyecto no se
incluyeron limitaciones temporales al monto de los
desembolsos. Esto permiti6 que se desembolsara mas del
90% de la linea de credito en afio y medio de operaci6n.
Si el disefio hubiera contemplado un desembolso por
tranches, el seguimiento del proyecto por parte del BM
hubiera sido mas facil con la posibilidad de analizar y
corregir en caso necesario la orientacifn de los
prestamos, si bien hubiera habido el riesgo de frenar la
respuesta a la presi6n del mercado.
(5)  Se  responsabiliz6  al  FIDEC  de  estudios  que  eran
competencia de otros organismos pablicos, como la
metodologia para analizar el sector del comercio
interior, la intrqducci6n de un sistema de subastas en



- 47 -
los mercados mayoristas y la desregulaci6n de la entrada
en el sector comercio en la ciudad de Mexico. El
resultado fue que el FIDEC no lleg6 a realizar estos
estudios.
(6) Aun cuando el informe de evaluaci6n ex ante indica que
FIDEC deberia hacer el seguimiento de las inversiones
financiadas con fondos del proyecto, y asi se acord6 en
las negociaciones, no se mencionaron las modalidades e
indicadores concretos de tal seguimiento y los acuerdos
que a tal prop6sito FIDEC deberia establecer con los
bancos  comerciales  asociados.    Esto  era  sumamente
importante debido a las evidentes dificultades de tal
seguimiento en ausencia de acuerdos y compromisos
precisos con los bancos comerciales.
Implementacifn y Resultados
Linea de CrGdito
La linea de cr6dito, que era el 99% del prestamo, se
desembols6 en 1990 y 1991. Siendo claro ya en esa fecha que las
actividades de asistencia tecnica programadas y no ejecutadas o en
proceso de ejecuci6n s6lo podrian llevarse a cabo con dificultad,
se podria haber dado por concluido el proyecto a finales de 1991 o
mediados de 1992, cancelando el pequeno saldo restante del
pr6stamo.
El credito se desembols6 en las actividades previstas en los
documentos del proyecto.   FIDEC solicit6 y obtuvo del BM el
traspaso de D6lares EEUU 10 millones previstos para cr6dito de
inversi6n a credito para capital de operaci6n. En consecuencia,
70% del cr6dito se destin6 a proyectos de inversi6n y 30% a capital
de operaci6n. Esta proporci6n entre los dos tipos de credito
corresponde s6lo a los prestamos con fondos del proyecto, pues del
conjunto de los prestamos del FIDEC en 1990-91 25% se dedic6 a
inversi6n y 75% a capital de operaci6n.
Cerca del 60% del credito del proyecto se us6 para la
construcci6n, mejora y adquisici6n de infraestructura, en su
mayoria centrales de abasto y mercados minoristas.
La politica de tasas de interes del FIDEC se subordin6 a las
sefiales que mandaba el mercado de credito --puntualmente
transmitidas por la banca comercial--, en particular a la necesidad
de competir con los recursos de otros fondos fiduciarios. En
conjunto, a lo largo del periodo 1989-94 la politica se orient6 en
la direcci6n esperada por el BM, o sea:  (1) la elevaci6n de las
tasas cargadas a la banca comercial hasta permitir un margen de
operacion c6modo a FIDEC (estimado en dos puntos) por encima del
costo de los recursos tomados a prestamo, y (2) el ofrecimiento a
la banca comercial de un margen suficientemente atractivo para



- 48 -
colocar los fondos, que permitiera al mismo tiempo tasas tambien
atractivas para los prestatarios fltimos. Este margen fue estimado
en tres puntos (correctamente, al parecer, pues cuando en 1994 se
liberaron las tasas que los bancos podian cargar a los usuarios de
recursos FIDEC el margen promedio se mantuvo alrededor de esta
cifra).
En promedio, las tasas de interes cobradas por FIDEC a los
bancos comerciales durante el periodo de desembolso del credito del
proyecto se situaron alrededor de la tasa CETES, o sea 2 puntos por
debajo de la tasa CETES+2 esperada por el BM. Esto, sin embargo,
no tuvo excesiva importancia pues: (1) las tasas fueron siempre
positivas en terminos reales; (2) el patrimonio de FIDEC no sufri6
merma, al contrario aument6 en terminos reales; y (3) debido a
tasas de inflacion relativamente altas en la 6poca, el costo del
dinero en la economia (medido por el CPP o el CETES) se situ6 entre
el 20 y el 40% en 1990-91; en estas condiciones, dos puntos mas o
menos por encima del costo de los fondos no tenian gran
significaci6n.
Asistencia T6cnica
La implementacion y rsultados del proyecto en este campo
eron m d' cea.  P& kF-goc nci llleg8od8cer  d   nr           n
subastas en mercados mayoristas, la desregulaci6n de la entrada en
el sector comercio en la ciudad de Mexico, y el estudio de los
ambulantes en la ciudad e Mexico. El segundo de estos estudios fue
sustituido por unos lineamientos preparados por SECOFI, que no
pueden en propiedad llamarse estudio. El de los ambulantes no se
hizo pues las autoridades del Distrito Federal dieron al problema
una solucion de urgencia por su cuenta. Se hicieron tres estudios
sobre canales de comercializaci6n (jitomate, carnes y citricos),
pero tuvieron poca difusi6n e impacto debido a su falta de
incisividad en el analisis de las potencialidades y restricciones
para el desarrollo de estos subsectores y a la falta de
identificaci6n de posibilidades de inversi6n.   Hubiera sido mas
practico dedicar los fondos de estos estudios a la financiaci6n de
estudios de preinversi6n.   Se realizo el estudio previsto sobre
metodologia para el seguimiento del comercio interior, que es un
trabajo interesante pero no llega a desarrollar una propuesta
institucional concreta para la puesta en marcha de un sistema
efectivo de seguimiento, y no ha tenido repercusiones practicas.
El ambicioso programa de capacitaci6n previsto por el proyecto
no se llevo a cabo. Hasta mediados de 1991 se realizaron cursos
para pequefios comerciantes, pero se descontinuaron por considerarse
que FIDEC no podi atender a la fuerte demanda y que siendo un
simple organismo financiero no era la instituci6n que deberia
ocuparse de ello. Con recursos propios, sin embargo, FIDEC ha
promovido y financiado una serie de actividades de capacitaci6n
para su personal en diversos campos, y ha preparado manuales con
que divulgar entre los funcionarios de la banca comercial las
facilidades y procedimientos del FIDEC y capacitarlos en la manera



- 49 -
de tramitar el uso de sus recursos. Las delegaciones han realizado
y continaan realizando diversas actividades de promocion del FIDEC
entre los bancos comerciales y los comerciantes.
Seguimiento y Evaluacifn
Este fue uno de los aspectos mAs d6biles del proyecto. FIDEC
no cumpli6 con el compromiso de fortalecer el seguimiento y montar
un sistema de recolecci6n y procesamiento de informacion para
evaluar el impacto de los subproyectos. FIDEC no tiene ni siquiera
informaci6n de la situaci6n de cartera vencida de los pr&stamos de
la banca comercial financiados con redescuentos suyos. La falta de
asunci6n de riesgo por parte del FIDEC, que tiene la devoluci6n de
sus redescuentos a la banca comercial asegurada independientemente
del pago o no de los prestatarios filtimos, es en parte responsable.
de esta situaci6n pues FIDEC no tiene incentivo para hacer el
seguimiento de los subproyectos por el financiados. El seguimiento
de la utilizaci6n de los fondos esta librado a la discrecion de los
bancos comerciales, y s6lo cuando se sospecha alguna irregularidad
FIDEC pide documentacion comprobatoria a la banca.
Es evidente que FIDEC, como banco de segundo piso, no dispone
de una estructura adecuada para comprobar directamente el uso de
los fondos y seguir cada uno de los subproyectos que ha financiado;
s6lo la banca de primer piso puede hacer esto. Pero hay dos cosas
que FIDEC hubiera podido hacer: (1) recoger de los bancos
informaci6n sobre la devoluci6n de los prestamos hechos con fondos
FIDEC y sistematizarla, y (2) organizar un sistema de seguimiento
por muestreo de algunos aspectos y parametros basicos relativos al
desarrollo y al impacto de los distintos tipos de subproyectos
financiados.
Bupervisifn y Sequimiento del Proyecto
Por el BM
La supervision del proyecto por parte del BM ha sido
deficiente. En casi cinco anos ha habido solamente cinco misiones
de supervisi6n, todas a cargo de distintas personas. El proyecto
cambi6 cuatro veces de responsable (task manager).  Entre diciembre
de 1990 y julio de 1992, mientras el proyecto desembolsaba mas del
60% de los fondos, no hubo ninguna misi6n de supervisi6n.
Las misiones de supervision decepcionaron al FIDEC pues
sirvieron poco para transferir know-how y experiencias de otros
paises en la modernizacion comercial y la financiaci6n del
desarrollo del sector comercio, como FIDEC hubiera deseado, y no se
propusieron la tarea de reorientar un proyecto con deficiencias de
concepci6n y diseno.   Las misiones dieron en cambio 6nfasis a
desviaciones de dudosa importancia en el cumplimiento de acuerdos,
algunos de los cuales FIDEC tenia dificultades estructurales para
cumplir. Varias misiones insistieron correctamente, sin embargo,



- 50 -
en la necesidad de realizar un seguimiento de las inversiones
financiadas con fondos del proyecto, pero sin entrar al fondo de la
materia: el papel que en ello debe jugar la banca comercial y la
medida en que esta dispuesta a cumplirlo.
Por el FIDEC
El seguimiento del proyecto por parte del FIDEC se vio
obstaculizado por la dificultad de distinguir entre la operacion
del proyecto y las actividades generales del FIDEC. El proyecto
tendi6 a ser visto como una simple linea de credito a la cual se
podian cargar ciertas operaciones de redescuento, mas que como una
propuesta de orientaci6n de la politica del FIDEC y un instrumento
para la modernizaci6n del desarrollo del sector comercio.
Dos  circunstancias   fortuitas   contribuyeron  tambien  a
dificultar el seguimiento del proyecto a partir de mediados de
1991: el fallecimiento del director del FIDEC, y la salida del
funcionario responsable de la Oficina de Desarrollo Institucional
del FIDEC, que era quien habia seguido mas de cerca el proyecto.
Hubo tambien durante este periodo varios cambios en el personal
directivo. El nuevo equipo de direcci6n, que tard6 tiempo en ser
nombrado, no conocia los origenes del proyecto y no tenia, por
X8b M6 piMATIAA       licANiCLdRa'28-isela YM89e6ddeager!eiftg'hgoyfeh
ya desembolsada.
FIDEC cumpli6 con los requerimientos de informar al BM del
progreso de las actividades del proyecto y mantener informacifn
separada sobre las operaciones financiadas con los fondos de 6ste.
Impacto del Proyecto
Sobre el Desarrollo y Modernizacion del Sector Comercio
La ausencia de un sistema de evaluaci6n y seguimiento de los
subproyectos financiados por el FIDEC impide llegar a conclusiones
documentadas sobre el impacto de desarrollo del pr6stamo del BM.
Algunos elementos, sin embargo, parecen indicar que se ha
financiado una cartera de subproyectos razonablemente sana: (1)
FIDEC tiene un sistema bien organizado para la evaluaci6n de las
solicitudes de pr6stamo, que es a la vez agil en la aprobaci6n y
escrupuloso en el requerimiento y an&lisis de documentaci6n y en
los criterios de aprobaci6n; (2) el personal de FIDEC tanto en las
delegaciones como en el Distrito Federal tiene un buen conocimiento
del sector y experiencia en juzgar que proyectos tienen mayores
riesgos; (3) los proyectos mAs grandes y los que parecen comportar
mayores dificultades de implementacion o riesgos comerciales deben
ser aprobados directamente por el Comite Tecnico del FIDEC; (4) la
banca comercial, que es la que asume el riesgo, somete los
proyectos a su propia evaluaci6n independiente basada en criterios



- 51-
de mercado; (5) la impresi6n recogida por la misi6n de las visitas
a proyectos y discusiones con funcionarios de los bancos y
comerciantes es que el seguimiento de la utilizaci6n de los fondos
prestado que hace la banca es bastante eficaz; y (6) la mayor parte
de los comerciantes reciben mds de un credito del FIDEC, lo que
permite a FIDEC hacer cierto seguimiento ad hoc de su actividad
comercial.
Los fondos del FIDEC no desplazan la utilizaci6n de recursos
propios de la banca comercial en la financiaci6n del sector
comercio.    Los  bancos  comerciales  no ven  al  FIDEC como un
competidor, sino como una fuente complementaria de fondos baratos
y una oportunidad que pueden aprovechar voluntariamente, dentro de
ciertas normas, si y cuando lo deseen.
Visto, sin embargo, desde el lado de las operaciones pasivas,
el FIDEC, como los demas fondos de fideicomiso y la banca de
desarrollo en general, compite, aunque indirectamente (via
prestamos del Banco de Mexico, quien capta ahorro mediante la
emision de Certificados de Tesoreria), con la banca comercial en la
captaci6n del ahorro privado (y externo) en el mercado de fodos
prestables.
Cabe preguntarse hasta que punto el proyecto ha asistido a que
el FIDEC sustituyera una funci6n financiera que en su ausencia
hubiera podido cumplir la banca comercial con sus propios recursos.
La opini6n de la misi6n es que el FIDEC ha llenado un vacio en
facilitar prestamos de inversiones en el sector comercial en
momentos de inestabilidad macroecon6mica e incertidumbre de precios
en que el mercado de prestamos de mediano y largo plazo estaba
restringido y distorsionado.   El FIDEC ha servido tambien para
desarrollar un know how especializado en la financiaci6n del sector
comercio y para abrir a este fuentes de financiaci6n a tasas
ventajosas en momentos en que el impulso modernizador y la demanda
potencial de inversiones del sector eran altos. En este sentido,
FIDEC ha jugado y juega un importante papel en la modernizaci6n del
sector comercio.   No es claro, sin embargo, que se justifique
mantener los altos niveles de prestamos para capital de operaci6n
a sectores comerciales capaces de financiarlo mediante prestamos
con recursos propios de los bancos, aunque estos sean a tasas mas
altas.
Debido a las debilidades en el terreno de la promoci6n,
capacitaci6n, investigaci6n y asistencia t&cnica, el proyecto, y el
FIDEC en general, no estuvieron en condiciones de anticipar y
orientar los cambios modernizadores que se producian en el sector
comercio. Pudieron s6lo registrar, acompafnar y facilitar a traves
del credito las tendencias espontaneas del mercado. El proyecto
tuvo, sin embargo, un impacto significativo en ampliar la
participacion del sector privado en los mercados mayoristas y
minoristas, drea tradicionalmente reservada a las municipalidades.
El impacto del proyecto, y del FIDEC en general, sobre las
franjas mas pobres y marginales del sector comercio --kioskos,



- 52 -
tiendas de esquina, minimarkets-- ha sido muy limitado, debido a
que: (1) los bancos comerciales, que son el brazo operativo del
FIDEC, no estaban interesados en este sector; (2) se requeria un
esfuerzo organizativo que FIDEC no estuvo en condiciones de
realizar; y (3) no se desarrollaron instrumentos y modalidades de
credito apropiados para este sector.
Consolidaci6n Instituciona2 del FIDEC
El proyecto continu6 la labor de desarrollo y consolidaci6n
institucional del FIDEC emprendida bajo el prestamo 2262-ME.  La
gozi?dS,qi linhf    18 -fayeYegomduni cac,,.,fffT,isicJ Ate lao$ot Ssda9
para segluir operando como agencia financiera mediante la linea de
credito, que a traves de la asesoria o la capacitaci6n.   El
proyecto contribuy6 ademas de varias maneras concretas a la
consolidaci6n institucional del FIDEC, por ejemplo en la creaci6n
de una Coordinaci6n de Delegaciones, de una Oficina de Desarrollo
Institucional y de dos nuevas delegaciones: en Veracruz y Villa
Hermosa.
El FIDEC es en la actualidad una instituci6n agil y
competente, con bajos costos de operacion. Desde 1990 el saldo de
la cartera de recursos prestados casi se ha cuadruplicado en
t6rminos reales mientras que el nuLmero de personal se mantenia
practicamente constante.   Con 80 funcionarios,  el FIDEC tiene
programado colocar D6lares EEUU 2 muil millones en 1994. El FIDEC
ha mostrado gran capacidad de responder a los requerimientos y
senales del mercado.  Esto se evidencia, por ejemplo, en la gran
cantidad de modificaciones en las politicas y normas de operaci6n
que su Comite Tecnico y la direcci6n han ido introduciendo en los
Ciltimos cuatro afios, incluyendo apertura de nuevos giros, creacion
de nuevos instrumentos y modalidades de prestamo, establecimiento
de nuevos limites para aprobacion de prestamos, descentralizacion
de funciones, agilizacion de tramites y modificaci6n de las tasas
de interes.



- 53 -
Anexo 1
PRESTAMO 3141-ME DEL BANCO MUNDIAL
ALGUNAS IDEAS PARA LA PREPARACION DEL DOCUMENTO DE
EVALUACION FINAL DEL PRESTAMO
A. Contenido
El contenido del informe podria ser el siguiente:
1. Resumen de la experiencia del primer proyecto financiado por BM (cr6dito 2262-ME)
y situaci6n del FTDEC a la finalizaci6n de este proyecto (1989).
2. Diferencias de objetivos, enfoque y disefio entre el 2262-ME y el 3141-ME.
3. Evaluaci6n retrospectiva de los aciertos y desaciertos en los objetivos, enfoque y disefio
del proyecto.
4. Evaluaci6n general del FIDEC como instituci6n y de sus actividades de prestamo
durante el periodo del cr&dito 1990-94.
5. Descripci6n de la experiencia de implementacion del proyecto:
* programa de credito
* estudios
- asistencia tecnica
 capacitaci6n
6. Sfntesis de los resultados obtenidos por el proyecto y su impacto
7. Evaluaci6n retrospectiva del seguimiento del proyecto
- comportamiento del Banco Mundial
- comportamiento del FIDEC
8. Experiencia extrafda del proyecto y principales lecciones
9. Plan de operaciones para el futuro
(algunas ideas para la preparaci6n de este plan de operaciones se presentan en
documento separado)
B. Documentos utiles para la preparaci6n del informe.
1. Staff Approisal Report del segundo proyecto (3141-ME).
2. Acuerdo de Presiamo y Acuerdo de Proyecto con FIDEC dei segundo proyecto.
3. Proyect Completion Report del primer proyecto (especialmente la Parte II).
4. Documento de respuesta del FIDEC a la informaci6n solicitada por el BM para la
preparaci6n del informe terminal del segundo proyecto, y comentarios del BM a esta



- 54 -
documento.
5. Ayuda de memorias de las cinco misiones de evaluaci6n del BM.
6. Documento dejado por la misi6n de preparaci6n del informe terminal con algunas ideas
para la preparacion del plan de operaciones futuras.
7. Informe de las actividades realizadas por el FIDEC 1981-1993.
8. Memoria de Gesti6n del FIDEC en el sexenio 1989-94.
9. Informe de la consultora Cristina Huytr6n de evaluaci6n del proyecto.
C. Caracterfsticas y Pregaracion del Informe
La extensi6n del informe puede ser del orden de 25-30 pdginas y deberfa ir
acompanado de un resumen inferior a 10 paginas y de un ap6ndice estadistico. Se estime
que podria ser preparado en el plazo de una semana, en base a los documentos anteriores,
por un funcionario del FIDEC que tenga una visi6n de conjunto de su mecdnica de
operaci6n, en consulta con la Direcci6n General.



- 55 -
Annexo 2
PRESTAMO 3141-ME DEL BANCO MUNDLkL
ALGUAS IDEAS PARA LA PREPARACION DE UN PLAN DE OPERACIONES FUTURAS
El plan debe ser breve, unas 4 o 5 paginas maximo, y dar indicaciones generales sobre el
desarrolo del proyecto despues del periodo de desemnbolso del pr6stamo. Puesto quo es imposible
separar en la practica las actividades del proyecto de las de FIDEC en su conjunto, el plan de
operaciones debera referirse necesariamente al conjunto del Fondo.
A continuacitn so presentan algunos tenas que serfa oportuno tratar en el plan de
operaciones.
1.     Breve descripci6n de la situaci6n general actual de la intomediacidn financiera, en
particular en relaci6n a los fondos fiduciarios y al FIMEC, y de su posible evoluci6n. Posibles
escenarios.
2.     Evoluci6n esperadaldeseada del volumen de operaciones del FIDEC en el pr6ximo
decenio, en termninos indicativos y de orden de magnitud. Escenario 'razonable'. (Considerar por
ejemplo las preguntas: ,se ha llegado -o se prev6 ilegar en los pr6ximos anos- a un estado de
crccimiento estacionario en la financiaci6n al sector en que esta necesite s6lo crecer a la tasa de
desarrollo sectorial? , se ha llegado -o se prev6 Blegar en los pr6ximos anos- a un equilibrio
adecuada entre la financiaci6n del sector a travds de fondos de origen pfiblico como los del FIDEC
y a travds de la banca privada?)
3.     Colaboraci6n con la banca comercial.
L.     Distribucidn de porcentajes en la financiaci6n de proyectos.  .Se debe mantener
Ia actual estructura: 70% FIDEC, 10% banca y 20% prestatario?
b.     Asunci6n de riesgos. LSe debe mantener la actual situaci6n en que 100% del
riesgo es asumido por la banca o FIDEC deberia asumir un acierta parte del riesgo coma manora
para estimular su interes en una alta calidad de los prestamos y de inducir una mejora en el M&E
de las operaciones de la banca?
c.     Margen de libertad de acci6n de la banca. LQu6 se preve sobre la evoluci6n de La
divisi6n de pr6stamos en Ianea autoniatica-lifnea proyoctos? ZC6mo se prev6 mejorar el M&E de las
operaciones de la banca y captar inforrnaci6n sobre recuperaciones en la cartera de prestam os
financiados con recursos FIDEC?
d.     Asistencia t6cnica del FIDEC a la banca y 'feedback'. ZComo reforzar el papel
del FIDEC:
- en la transferencia a la banca de mknow-how' sobre el secotor comercio;
- para servir en cierto modo como 'clearing house' de la experiencia de esta; y
- para recibir/sistematizar la experiencia de la banca en el sector?
LC6mo mejorar las recomendaciones del FIDEC a la banca sobre parmmetros pan
la evaluaci6n de las solicitudes de credito y criterios para la asunci6n de riesgos en los varios
subsectores?
4.     Costo del dinero, margen de operaci6n, tasa de interds a usuarios. LSe considera adecuada
la actual situacion de:
- costo del dinero a FIDEC            tasa CETES



- 56 -
- margen de operaci6n FIDEC            2 puntos
- tasa inter6s cobrada a bancos      tasa CETES + 2
- tasa interes a usuarios finales          libre    ?
5.     Tipo de operaciones y usuarios a fnanciar. LCDmo so prevd que evolucionari Ise cree que
debe evolucionar la estructura de los prestamos? En particular:
a.     Balance entre prdstamos de corto, medio y largo plazo.
b.     Balance entre tipos de usos. ,Se preve o desea promover un cambio en la
estructura segdin tipos de usos? ,Nuevos usos previstos? ,Usos actuales que no deberlan ser
fiDanciados en el futuro?
C.     Balance entre tipos de sujetos. , Cambios en la estructura? ,Nuevos sujetos?
Nuevas maneN de Ilegar a ciertos sujetos, especialmente a los pequenos comerciantes? ,Sujetos
actual  que no debernan ser financiados en el futuro?
d.     Distribuci6n de los cr6ditos por montos. ,Se prevd/desea promover cambios
importnts en terminos reales?
6.    Indicadores que muestren la evoluci6n del FIDEC en relacion a los puntos 2 a 5 anteriores.
7.     Futuro seguimiento por el BM.
a.     No se considera necesario un seguimuento espectfico en ei futuro de las actividades
del FIDEC por parte del Banco distinto de I seguimiento general de la evoluci6n del pals que hace
el 'Mexico desk' y del seguimiento particular que sel Banco viene realizando de la evoluci6nd el
sistema financiero mexicano. E1 FIDEC enviara al BM copia de los indicadores seia1ados en el
punto 6 con la misma periodicidad con que estos vengan confeccionados.
b.     No se considera necesario por el momento un nuevo prestamo del BM en apoyo al
FIDEC.
c..    Posibilidad de un seminario FII)EC-BM pam discutir ei ICR del prdstamo 3141 y
el plan de ftras operaciones a la luz de:
- la experiencia institucional del FIDEC durante los dos prestamos del BM;
- los cambios macroacon6micos en el sistemna financiero; y
- la polStica/previsiones sobre el futuro de los fondos de fideicormiso.
El seminario se podria realizar en Mexico a comicnzo de la prdxima Administraci6n, en
febrero o marzo de 1995.



- 57 -
APPENDIX B
FIDEC
FONDO PARA EL DESARROLLO COMERCIAL
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
IBRD LOAN 3141-ME
March 1995



- 58 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
II. PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
111. FIDEC'S FUTURE OPERATIONS



- 59 -
SUJMMARY OF LOAN 3141-ME *
1.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
In keeping with FIDEC's objective of promoting the modernization and development of the
marketing of primary commodities, Loan 3141 -ME was contracted to ensure continuity with the first
project (2262-ME). The specific objectives of the second project consisted in helping to improve the
efficiency of food marketing systems by adopting modem technologies and strengthening FIDEC's
institutional development.
In comparison with Loan 2262-ME and based on experience gained from its disbursement, the
loan discount terms were changed so that, in order to give greater support to each individual project
and to speed up disbursement, the proportion of the IBRD discount was increased (80 per cent of the
credit issued by FIDEC, compared to 60 per cent of the credit during implementation of Loan 2262-
ME), which meant a participation of approximately 56 percent in the total investment in each project.
In the case of Loan 3 141-ME, the individual trader was regarded as the primary agent for the
modernization of marketing, rather than the trader and/or producer-farmer organizations that were
-promoted during the first loan. The second Agricultural Marketing Project also included participation
of promoters of commercial infrastructure projects, as they were thought to have a significant impact in
modernizing small-scale marketing.
Unlike its predecessor, Loan 3 141 -ME placed more emphasis on working capital as a means of
inducing the small-scale marketing sector to use institutional credit
The operational changes were also important in ensuring that the loan funds were channeled in
a timely fashion, because in this case there was only one executing agency, while, in the case of Loan
2262-ME, there was FIRA, FICART and FIDEC   The number of loan categories was also cut
substantially (from 14 to 5), which simplified project processing and monitoring.
The activities included in the institutional component were similar to those of the first Loan,
with budget items earmarked for the acquisition of computer and telecommunications equipment, the
training of Fund staff the preparation of predetermined studies and the training of agents involved in
the financing (merchants, bank employees and extension workers)
Lastly, on the strength of the experience of extending the disbursement period for Loan 2262-
ME (six years) a longer disbursement period (five years), was allowed for this new operation.
No significant changes in project implementation were noted and the original plans were
accomplished as regards the financing of investment projects basically aimed at infrastructure and
equipment and designed to increase the efficiency of the food distribution system and modernize
marketing practices. In concrete terns, priority was given, during project implementation, to financing
small-and medium-size traders of perishable products and foodstuffs who had traditionally not had
*     The complete report of the Government, Part III, can be found in the project file, as well as the spanish
version of the Executive Summaiy.



- 60 -
access to institutional credit (see the Statistical Annex)
The most important changes occurred in the allocation of funds among the investment
categories in the Loan, priority being given to the small-scale marketing sector  The first of these
chan-es consisted in the transfer of US$8 5 million from category 1 (investment credit) to category 2
(working capital).
The increased allocation of funds for working capital loans under category 2 of the Loan was
basically attributable to the fact that the top priority for small low-income merchants is to obtain
financing in order to purchase goods for sale and/or to replenish their inventories, rather than to
purchase infrastructure and/or equipment, which translates into a higher demand for working capital
loans. It was for this reason that the Fund, aware of this situation, introduced from 1991 onwards the
concept of long-term permanent working capital (up to three years), so as to give merchants more
security, encourage them to remain and become firmly established in the formal marketing sector and
promote greater competition among them.
The second change concerns the transfer of US$550,000 from category 3 (consulting services
and training) to category I (investment capital), in response to the need for additional funds to provide
long-tenn loans basically for the establishment of food marketing infrastructure.
The most critical deviations between what was planned and what actually occurred lay in the
area of the disbursement rate.   At the time of appraisal, disbursements were substantially
underestimated, the projection for the first two years, 1990 and 1991, being US$38 million while in
reality disbursements amounted to US$95.7 million, i.e. almost the entire loan. This was because of
the Fund's better position and more clearly defined clientele
In general, the actions and decisions involved in project implementation proved appropriate in
light of the type of operations financed under the Loan. Disbursement expectations appear to have
been overestimated with respect to the study and training components of the project, however.
As for commitments relating to category 3. i e. consulting services and training, the change that
has occurred in the country's macroeconomic framework, trade liberalization and the lifting of
economic controls, together with the microeconomic changes made, including in particular the
withdrawal of the public sector as the financial and marketing agent and the amendments in the land
tenure system (Article 27 of the Constitution), all made it necessary to revise the terms of reference for
the studies originally agreed and change the study topics. The increase in Fund operations also made it
necessary to earmark funds for the computerization and reorganization of functions, which slowed the
rate of their disbursement as compared to the other categories.
The Fund did not have a favorable experience with the external consultants hired due to the
overrun in the amount of time originally estimated for completion of the studies. In particular, the
studies on citrus fruit distribution channels and the study on meat marketing in Mexico were contracted
out towards the end of October 1990 and were completed in January and September 1992
respectively. The worst experience FIDEC had in this connection was with the hiring of the firm of
RC'G/HAGLER, BAILLY  INC., which did not complete its assignment, despite the readiness
displayed by the Fund to fulfill its contractual obligations.



- 61 -
This problemii points up the need for the World Bank to make the procedure it recommends for
the liring of consultants more flexible and to make the contractual aspects stricter in order to guarantee
the conlipletion of work contracted out
In the area of project monitoring, the Bank's performance was satisfactory, particularly in terms
of designl and nziodu.s operandi It is felt, however, that the supervision missions might have taken place
mole frequently in order to provide greater certainty, via the consulting services, as regards the
decisions pertaining to research and internal training activities, but, above all, to foster an exchange of
marketing experiences in other countries and to take advantage of the Bank's superior knowledge. All
in all, the Fund was hoping for more active participation on the part of the Bank in the area of training
CoLlirses and recomniriendations based on its experience
IL. PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
Project implementation produced physical results such as an increased supply of infrastructure
and equipment, but also qualitative benefits which are considered even more important.
In terms of the actual amount of infrastructure and equipment furnished out of the proceeds of
Loan   141 -NIE, combined with contributions from commercial banks and businesses, the project
helped to conistruct 58 retail markets, 26 self-service stores, 11 supply centers, 77 cold storage plants,
and 2 marketing centers and to purchase 262 vehicles
The investments in marketing and supply infrastructure brought the number of marketing
pr-emises to 7,783 and the number of warehouses to 1,298. The total marketing area increased to
964,082 In2, of which 181,252 m2 corresponds to selling area, 294,671 m2 to services, 76,194 m2 to
common areas and 203,354 m2 to parking. The warehouse area increased to 197,365 m2 and the cold
storage area to 11,247 m2. These investments resulted in the generation of 16,979 jobs in the
constr uction sector and 20,842 in the operation of the marketing facilities. The attached tables show
the breakdown of the project by financing category, credit recipient, size of operation, beneficiary
entity and intemnediary bank.
While the increase in infrastructure and equipment contributes in no smaUl way to the efficiency
ot the marketing sector, the project's greatest impact is qualitative, including the following aspects in
particular: meeting the needs of small-scale merchants, financing of segments of the population with
no prior access to credit, strengthening of medium-size marketing channels with a eye to promoting
competition, and providing participating agents with guidance on market risks as well as support for
Government withdrawal from the infrastructure sector. One of the benefits deriving from the project
which deserves special mention is its highlighting the advantages of channeling public development
finds via a second-tier banking scheme, thereby relieving the public sector from participating in the
credit risk.
Among the benefits of small merchant financing geared primarily to working capital is getting
them plugged into institutional financing instead of risky, high-interest loans (agiotismo), not to
mention the promotion of human resource development. This implies an improvement in training and
marketing practices, because access to institutional credit automatically puts the financial management



- 62 -
of businesses on a more formal footing. Secondly. it strengthens these small merchants as independent
private auents and eliminates the subsidy traditionally given to them by the public sector. Lastly, since
the financing provided under the Loan was used primarily for projects involving groups of merchants, it
promspted these merchants to fonn occupational organizations in order to be successful.  In the
process. establishments of a purely family type were encouraged to become organization-minded and
to pi-oduce small entrepreneurs, who will gradually be able to compete with other economic agents
enua(jed inl marketing
In light of the foregoing, it should be mentioned that the fact that FIDEC channels a higher
proportion of financing to working capital does not necessarily conflict with the objectives of an
economic development institution. It is important that the plans of development banks are sufficiently
flexible to adapt to the most pressing needs of the sector that they are intended to serve, in the case of
marketing, financing working capital is an ideal instrument for getting banks to channel institutional
credit to the least protected sectors, offering them growth alternatives and opportunities for
modelrnization, and rescuing them from agblfismo.
In addition, given the economic changes taking place, such as the transition towards an open
economly, it is essential to use existing infrastructure efficiently and to increase the resources of
businesses by financing working capital, particularly at times of severe liquidity shortage.
The recognition that assistance with working capital can be important for the development of
small traders is one of the major successes of the project; the original allocation of funds by category
WouLld have involved a high opportunity cost, by hindering this capitalization and delaying
disbLiursemlent.
F-ulthermore, the use made of the Loan proceeds also prompted banks to grant long-term
financing for infrastructure generation as well as to meet the needs of small merchants. These market
niches were barely being served at all, firstly, because the financial system had specialized in granting
credit to the tyovernment and to large companies, secondly, because nothing was known about these
segmrents and, lastly, because banks lacked long-term funds. In this respect the Loan funds enabled the
banks to serve exactly these segments.
As the SAR suggested, a large portion of the Loan funds was used to finance medium-size
regional marketing chains, thereby strengthening their ability to compete with the three largest nation-
wide commercial chains, which account for 80% of total sales by self-service stores in Mexico. This
has helped to create an awareness among officials and authorities of the need to encourage medium-
size mar-keting agents to become more competitive, particularly through a type of support that does not
include a financial subsidy, such as that provided by FIDEC.
One of the benefits of the projects supported by the Fund consisted in capitalizing on the
experiences of projects that failed to achieve the success expected, which led to the development of
new credit practices that required a guarantee regarding the operation of new projects and which, at
the samie time, helped to spread the word among participating agents about the problems being faced
by the projects in progress. Among other benefits, this has prompted teams of promoters to set up
occupational organizations in order to minimize the risks entailed in launching market infrastructure
and supply projects, thereby enabling private investors to enter a sector that has traditionally been
served by government institutions.



- 63 -
As part of the disengagement process of the parastatal entities and in light of the reduction in
government subsidies, FIDEC helped to improve and modernize the country's commercial and supply
infrastructure by providing financing for remodeling and equipment, thus penetrating areas where
investment was traditionally public, such as retail markets and supply centers; this encouraged private
sector participation and demonstrated that investments made in this area can be profitable. Examples
of this type of project are the Central de Abastos Estrella in Monterrey, N.L., the Central de Abastos in
Cancun and the Ecomercados in San Luis Potosi.
The Loan funds also helped to strengthen FIDEC's role as a second-tier bank. The channeling
of public development funds via institutions such as FIDEC has become a highly advantageous
mechanism. When it operates as a second-tier bank, the public sector is relieved of the credit risk,
which is thus assessed using market mechanisms, since the banks are risking their own funds in the
market. In addition, the structure needed to operate as a second-tier bank is substantially smaller, since
the commercial banks' structure and windows  are used to serve the creditors direct.  The
administrative cost is consequently much lower, making it possible to operate at a lower margin, which
means that banks pay less for credit funds. In the case of FIDEC, this is combined with a scheme of
deregulated interest rates and fees, which encourages first-tier banks to reduce the margin they charge
their customers in order to be competitive, while at the same time making it possible to provide
development funds without subsidies.
In light of the results of the research studies contracted out to various consultants under the
Loan, the conclusion can be drawn that the terms of reference and the studies must not only take
account of the current market situation, but must also constitute a source of information to guide and
attract potential investors. Perhaps investments might have been attracted more effectively if studies
had been carried out for the purpose of solving the problems encountered by entrepreneurs interested
in projects that involved technology advances and commercial development, instead of studies on the
distribution channels for specific products. Similarly, it would have been a good idea if the terms of
reference for the studies had taken account of other schemes in other countries or other segments, and
had included an estimate of the benefits offered by the potential projects analyzed from the point of
view of both investors and society as a whole, along with guidance concerning the economic and
technological changes that can occur within a very short period of time and can affect project
expectations.
One of the project's shortcomings was thus its rigid specification of the studies to be carried
out. This hindered the timely completion of some of the most immediately important ones, which
might, in light of the rapid changes that occurred during the 1989-92 period, have had the greatest
impact  This lack of flexibility makes it difficult to select studies that respond to changes in the
framework of the commercial sector and even to the urgent needs of the Fund, such as resolving the
problem of the increased labor costs of its staff and the inadequate computerization of its Trust
activities. However, this latter situation was finally accepted by IBRD, when it agreed to reimburse all
the costs incurred in hiring the firm of Roberto Casas-Alatriste/Coopers and Lybrand to carry out the
diagnostic study of the mechanization of operations and, above all, to optimize the entire information
system and to fine-tune FIDEC's distribution by type of activity, all of which has made it possible to
gradually increase the institution's efficiency and competitiveness.
Another difficulty in connection with carrying out the studies concerned the consultants hired
to do the study on tomato distribution, i.e. RCG/HAGLER BAILLY INC The delay that occurred



- 64 -
here was attributable to the fact that, since the firm lacked personnel with experience in marketing
stuLdies, it had to subcontract to outside researchers scattered around the USA. This resulted in the
f-rUst FLInd having to review, with the Trustee, the legal procedures and terms for hring consultants
and prompted steps to ensure that contracts are prepared much more strictly.
Lastly, the loan provided the funds needed to purchase computer equipment and to
computerize the Trust Fund's operation, funds from category 3 and 4 being used for the purpose. Only
pairt of what was originally planned was achieved, and this at a slower pace than for the utilization of
cate-orv I and 2 funds. However, the changes made it possible for the earmarked funds to be used for
1m01'e Urgent objectives, thus enabling the Fund to perform efficiently and accomplish its objectives.
Otherwise the Fund would have found it very difficult to achieve the present level of operation and
X'irtLiaIly impossible to develop a monitoring system
To understand the extent of the benefits derived from these activities it must be remembered
that at the time Loan 3 141-ME was negotiated, the Fund's level of activities was such that it was able
to carry out evaluation, supervisory, cost control and training activities without expanding its structure.
Between 1989 and 1994, however, FIDEC's loan portfolio increased 950.8 per cent in real terms.
Tlhis gave rise to new requirements in terms of providing both financing and guidance to the staff
responsible for handling these financial operations with the banks. It also inevitably increased the
demuanid for financing from the Fund, given the need to modernize the sector and make it more efficient
as a result of the impact of the opening up of Mexico's market and the deregulation of the economy,
especially on the smallest and least developed traders
At the rate FIDEC's program and volume of operations were growing, continuing these
activities would have meant expanding its structure and increasing its current expenditure several times
over, which would have tumed it more into a public-sector institution than an economic development
finanicing agency
It has been fully recognized, moreover, that the projects assisted by FIDEC represent a private
rathler than a public risk, since it is the loan recipients who propose the projects and the intermediary
institution that decides to take the risk of financing them. It was considered appropriate to let the
markiet itself be the mechanism to promote and decide on the projects and services needed in order to
develop and modernize the commerical structure. appraised according to entrepreneurial risk, rather
than to foster modernization from the perspective of a central planning agency.
It was felt that the Fund's primary responsibility in terms of training and technical assistance to
banks was to respect their operating modes, promote their various financing schemes and alert
participating economic agents to possible market risks.  To do this, promotion efforts were
concenitrated on banks and an electronic training system was designed that proved a highly efficient
mleanls of providing bank operators with continuing training in the assistance offered by FIDEC and in
mnarket risk evaluation. With respect to the training and technical assistance targeting the traders, a
(reater impact is achieved through credit mechanisms, such as financing for private agents who act as
"de facto" financial intermediaries, than through direct services from the staff of the Trust. Financing a
wholesaler who, in turn, channels the credit to the small retail traders whom he supplies, and financing
medium-size merchants who transfer credit to their suppliers, are clear examples of this process, which
besides serving as a means of financing for the less developed participants, implicitly carries with it an



- 65 -
incentive for the latter to receive training and technical assistance from the private agent who acts as a
"de facto" financial intermediary.
It was thus decided to decentralize FlDEC's operations in the sense of transferring to the banks
and to loan beneficiaries, promoters and traders the responsibility pertaining to each. This avoided
turnin, the Trust into a publicly-financed agency which, even if it did the work of assessing project
feasibility and risk, would duplicate and compete with the functions normally perforned by private
agents and banks.
The strategy used to support the modernization of the commerical sector took the form of
inducing1, first-tier banks and private economic agents to play a bigger role in opening up opportunities
and providing technical assistance and training to the commerical sector, allowing the market to
deter-minie the type of services required. It was thought that FIDEC's main responsibility in this area
was to provide information on how to operate the various financing schemes and to alert intermediary
institutions to market risks. Finally, FIDEC has delegated its appraisal, supervisory and training
responsibilities to market agents.  The strategy followed has also been consistent with the
Govermnent's policy of austerity and budgetary discipline, since it has avoided the need to expand
FIDEC's structure and has, at the same time, enabled it to cover its funding and operating costs by
continuing to apply the existing scheme of interest rates on its loans.
All in all, the project certainly had a beneficial impact where FIDEC was concemed, in that it
was enabled to establish itself firmly as an economic development institution that is nationally
recognized both in the commerical sector and throughout the financial system.  In light of the
experience gained from the projects it proved possible to adjust financing policies so as to provide the
sector with timely and comprehensive financial assistance and also to guide banks and participating
economic agents about market risks.
IU. FIIDEC'S FUTURE OPERATIONS
A radical change in the framework of commerical activities occurred during the Loan's
disbursement period. The opening up of the economy encouraged foreign agents to set up in business
directly, either through franchises or strategic association. This led to greater competition and the
incorporation of new technologies into the commerical sector. The opening up of the economy also
promoted a change in consumer habits affecting not only the type of products and services demanded
but also their fonn and presentation and the place where they are purchased and consumed.
This process was accompanied by a policy of moving towards deregulation and reducing the
public sector's role in commerical activities.
Within this new competitive field, in which a higher value added is expected during the
marketing phase, as a result of the same transformation of the sector, agents moved away from
specializing in the handling of a specific product and began to offer diversified products. This gives
them the advantage of economies of scale and tends to cut their costs, since they supply the same
market niche with a wide range of products with capital-intensive technologies. Consequently, the
competition now occurs more among the different marketing channels than among the economic
agents themselves. Thus, in present circumstances, it would not prove very effective to promote the



- 66 -
modernization of the commercialization of a specific product, when, in order to achieve excellence, a
single marketing channel strives to supply the largest quantity of products that the final consumers
want. For example, the modernization of self-service entails modernizing the marketing not only of
groceries, clothing, furniture and other products, but also that of perishable produce and even of the
services demanded by the consumer.
Against this backdrop. the largest commerical groups gained the biggest advantage, while
medium and small-size businesses are faced with the need to make operating changes in order to
successfully coexist with these large companies. Given this situation, FIDEC's primary mission in
future will be to continue to focus particularly on helping small-scale merchants obtain capital,
irrespective of the product in which they specialize. since the main competitors in this market niche are
those offering muli products'
This is also true of suppliers of services, since products are being consumed at service centers
in ever-growing numbers, whether workshops. restaurants, salons, etc. There is also now a recognition
of the need to support the supply of important services such as schools and health care, which are
playing an ever-increasing part in the structure of household expenditure.
The Fund will continue to promote, via preferential financing, capitalization and training for
suppliers of consumer goods and services, particularly for agents who are at the greatest competitive
disadvantage.
As has been pointed out throughout this document, there is a dual benefit to be gained from
financinit small-scale marketing. The first consists in supplying capital at a lower cost than normally
available in the informal market, which immediately entails a reduction in financial costs and
consequently increases the individual merchant's growth capacity The second benefit lies in the
training of the merchant, because access to institutional financing automatically entails a progression
from the level of family business with little administrative organization to that of small enterprise.
Therefore the strategy consists in getting banks to channel a larger amount of credit to this segment; it
is achieved by offering a sufficiently profitable margin to induce banks to service this niche, but without
providing any financial subsidy, and by constantly simplifying administrative procedures, thereby
keeping operating costs to a minimum for both FIDEC and the intermediary institutions. FIDEC will
therefore continue to advocate a scheme of deregulated rates and financial conditions and the
elimination of restrictions and subsidies that lead to market distortions.
With respect to the training and technical assistance required by traders in order to obtain credit
without becoming overindebted, which would lead to business disaster, FIDEC realizes that it is
impossible for a single institution to be able to meet all their needs, given the great diversity and size of
the sector. It has therefore provided financial support for access to consultants offering services to
merchants in the form of technology tailored to market conditions, rather than offering these services
itselt'as a centralized agency, whose results have traditionally been limited.
FIDEC has also noted that as regards competition arnong commercial channels, there are two
major agents that encourage merchants to modernize their marketing, i.e. self-service chains and
"active" wholesalers. The chains encourage their suppliers to modernize their commercial operations
by requiring that the products meet standardization and classification (bar code) requirements and tend



- 67 -
to shorten the distribution circuit by obtaining their supplies directly from producers and manufacturers.
The wholesalers, for their part, encourage the small retailers on whose business they depend to
modei-nlize their businesses  FIDEC will have to take advantage of the self-interest of these two types
of' agents to get them to provide training and technical assistance to both suppliers and small
Imlel chants; to do this it will have to advocate financial schemes that bring them together, based on their
business interests, either as affiliates or franchise-holders.
Moreover, in view of the market concentration on the self-service store, FIDEC will have to
step up its support to medium-size marketing chains to enable them to consolidate their market
position and offer stiffer competition to the three chains that account for about 80% of this form of
bUSHIeSS. SUPPOrting medium-size chains will have beneficial effects on the small-scale merchants,
because the fonner, in the process of modernizing, generate a similar response among the latter who,
providing they have capital, will follow suit.
The changes that have occurred in consumer habits, product presentation and the logistics of
distribution call for greater investment in infrastructure for the selection, preparation, conservation and
final presentation of these products and in the plant and equipment for taking orders and for product
distribution. This new infrastructure represents a departure from that traditionally used by agents who
specialize in the various linkages in the marketing chain. Thus, the format of collection center, cold
storage plant, supply center and retail outlet is beginning to be superseded. The movement is towards
the foriiationi of large distribution centers in which collection, conservation and wholesale operations
are combined under one roof and where there is direct integration with retail selling. Here FIDEC's
role is to continue to provide long-term financing for the modernization of individual supply
infrastructure tailored to the commercial operator, perhaps giving greater priority to this than to
infrastructure for general use. It will, however, continue to encourage the reorganization of small-scale
marketing by providing financing for projects that promote entrepreneurial training, thereby facilitating
their coexistence with larger economic agents.
Infrastructure and transportation are not the only key elements in the modernization process.
Efficient use of working capital will, in practice, have the greatest impact, by ensuring sufficient
inventories and enabling sales-related processes to run smoothly. Nowadays, credit sales are vital to
the growth of commercial establishments and are beginning to predominate among business activities.
FiDEC will therefore continue to promote assistance with permanent working capital, which, for small
traders, also represents the means of access to formal financing.
With respect to the objective of supporting Government disengagement from commercial
infrastructure, FIDEC will continue its efforts to promote the privatization of those segments in which
the public sector is still involved, with a view to reducing the distortions entailed in this situation.
FIDEC will also have to play an active role in formulating strategies that will promote both more
reliable and competitive marketing and the emergence of the schemes and agents that will allow this to
happen, possibly by establishing a marketing system based on projected prices.
It is recommended that care continue to be taken to see that FIDEC's operating costs are not a
burden on either the public sector or society. which means that FIDEC must continue to operate as a
second-tier organization with a lean structure. Therefore, it is essential that it continue to delegate
authority, simplify processes that provide access to second-tier credit, and invest in the type of
technology that will increase internal efficiency



- 68 -
While transferring credit risk evaluation to the banks is an important part of its delegation of
authorlity, FIDEC will need to strengthen its monitoring of projects so that it can identify market risks
andl warn participants accordingly, while always leaving the decision up to them.
It is to be hoped that there will be increasingly competitive bank participation, which FIDEC
shoild uLitilize to promote the generation of innovative financial plans to serve the mass markets, as well
as to design "made-to-measure products" in support of the large-scale commnercial infrastructure and
supplv projects that are needed so as to make Mexico's marketing sector more efficient and
competitive



r  -  0-                                                                    Iao                                                                            go-                              IBRD 2B354~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD 3-
r   M04ZdA   \  "'-S-shs35 0s4,                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  E X I C O
O,_  X   D      'M_,-,_= .*-',g^"                                                                                                                                                                                _ 
] < , f i ,\ -;_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',-3L
!  .      GuoymosL                           )                 >         X                       clo>evo ios                                                                         510to copitols~~~~~~~~~~~~clo
_    O51elEo   %,udLDrrwn  /   i   a                 ,   NusvpLorx,9?                                                                    Divded highwoys~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
>,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt 6 ...a                                                           d .l E  ,. 
P.                                 D-rl>< >         )             iocoff>'%Slc    onro
|  OLUl@to t tMoth \ X ( Lfy / C6. .. I- vrs
I  ,/                         >                            > \  G      g                       M         >          |  yMotomoro-                                    .-._. {nternotionol.30undorees~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d .d.,
|  <                               c; l ocon                  3    :          X                   j    >            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-P
I                     ,  ,(r,                       k                     1,/s   \s          E         1                X      /0~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ai ..
i                         ++\ Po2                         \          Duro    >               f   ,/    MOP    {    Chudtr. - ()                                                                   1 . < ,  _~~~~~~~~~~~~PI
|  t)                  Mo20t1anbt                ,           \  /                E      g    ( ,>    )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e,d
1                     (alMo 5o LUcoF                       X                         >5,cOticOs            m      > < C d M d~~~~~~~~~IW
-   ,  A B       ,       --    W Q     A                   4 ,- - L 0-   o                                      BEL    ZE
K ILCMETER/S C   too     200      300    lOC       50/30<7WaS                                                                                                                ;       '        ~\_*i__
MILE5 C   IOC   20C   30C                                                                                ru oEsTodlitl                              Xex         ~      ~ ~~~ GUATEMvALA       
I   O i 1+7/  lY; fnRn;D,od f T-WrldEen Goup  n  u.etTp5hl                                                                                                                                                                             HOND!URAS
IlO'                                     IGO                                                                    ,                    70s 1 t >        RE-29ARY 15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FZR!RY1,









I



