Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 8095-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 14, 1989
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banok .uthorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
US$1.00      -    Mex$ 26001
Mex$  1     =    US$ 0.00044
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS
1 Hectare (ha)          10 000 m2
1 Metric ton (mt)  =    1,600 kg
1 Kilometer        -    1,000 m
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ACF              - Average Cost of Funds to Banks
AGSAL           - Agricultural Sector Loan
ANAGSA          - National Crop and Livestock Insurance Agency
BANCOMEXT       - Foreign Trade Bank of Mexico
BANRURAL        - Rural Bank
CAADES          -  Confederation of Agricultural Associations of the State
of Sinaloa
CETES           -  Treasury Bills
CONASUPO        -  National Marketing Corporation for Basic Foods
CONCANACO       -  Confederation of National Chambers of Commerce
FERTIMEX        -  National Fertilizer Company
FI              -  Financial Intermediary
FICART          -  Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas
FIDEC           -  Trust Fund for Commercial Development
FIRA            - Agricultural Trust Funds in Bank of Mexico
FOMEX           -  Trust Fund for Development of Exports of Manufactured
Products
FONEI           - Trust Fund for Industrial Equipment
FSAL            -  Financial Seztor Adjustment Loan
GATT            -  General Agrsement on Tariffs and Trade
GIRA            -  General Interest Rate Agreem'*nt
ICB             -  Internationa.. Competitive Bidding
INEGI           - National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Computer
Science
ISPL            -  Industrial Sector Policy Loan
LIBOR           - London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
NAFIN           -  National Finance Agency
NTBs            -  Non-Tariff Barriers
PACTO           -  Economic Solidarity Pact
PECE            -  Stabilization and Growth Pact
PND             - National Development Plan
PRONAL          -  National Food Program
PVP             -  Present Value Payments System
SARH            -  Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SECOFI          -  Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion
SECOGEF         -  Secretaria de la Controloria Gineral de la Federacion
(Ministry in charge of auditing)
SEMIP           -  Secretariat of Energy, Mines, Industry and Parastatals
SHCP            -  Secretariat of Finance
SNA             - National Supply System
SNIM            -  National Market Information Service
SOE             -  Statement of Expenditure
UNPH            -  National Association of Fruit and Vegetable Producers
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Average exchange rate at the time of the appraisal (May 1988) was 2280
Mexican pesos per U.S. dollar.



FOR  FMCIL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I. *     LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                  .       .      ... I
II.      THE FOOD MARKETING SECTOR           ................. 3
A. Introduction: Economic Background .................. **..3
Background ..........................................   3
Macroeconomic Development in 1988          ... . 4
Macroeconomic Policies in 1989            . . . . 5
Towards Renewed Growth       .       ................ *..6
B. The Financial Sector                   .         .            6
An Over-regulated Financial Sector ............... o..6
Initial Measures Taken by the Government After 1982.7
Significant Problems Remaining             .     .       7
Reforms since October 1988              ..  7
Problems of Development Banks and Trust Funds  ... 8
Bank Actions within the Agricultural Credit System..8
C. Evolution of Food Marketing in Mexico .................. 9
The Food Sector in the Economy             . .  9
Effects of Urbanization and Income           .     .    9
D. The Present System of Food Marketing in Mexico  ... 10
Coexistence of Traditional and Modern System ....... 10
Overall Presentation                .        .        . 10
Producers  . ............................... ..... . 11
Wholesalers. ..................................... 12
Retailers                   . ..... .. 13
Agroprocessors and Exporters            .     ... 14
Regulatory Issues .     .................................. 14
Information on Prices and Volumes of Transactions..16
Government Policy and Strategy ..................... 16
Demand for Credit        .................................. 17
Bank Involvement in the Sector .........  ........... 18
Rationale for Bank Involvement         .    .21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Mexico in April 1989. Mission members were Messrs. Jean-Jacques de Saint
Antoine (task manager), Alain Tobelem and Andres Abramovich.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page
III.     THE PR..OJECT .............................................. 23
Origin of the Project ....23............
Project Objectives and Description..        ........... 23
Institutional Development   .            .24
Project Implementation   .             .26
Project Cost and Financing ..29
Procurement .......................... 29
Disbursesmento ......  .*  ........... 30
Accounting and Audits...... .......... ......... . ..... 30
Management Information System .30
Financial Analysis of Investment Models .31
Project Risk .........                   ... ..**....... +31
Environmental Effects ......31
IV.      AGREEMENTS REACHED/TO BE REACHED                              32
Annexes
1.       FIDEC's  Operatios. .............. ............ . ........... 34
2.       FIDEC's Historical Statements ............................36
3.       Financial Projections ..................... .............. 39
4.       Illustrative Investw nt Plans ........................... 44
5.       Project Cost ........  .....  .*........59
6.       Disbursement Schedule ......o...........................60
7.       Terms of Reference for Special Studies ..................61
8.       Daily Prices of Fruits and Vegetables Produced           .   64
by National Market Information Service
9.       Documents isi Files......                               .    66



MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARXETING PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:             United Mexican States
Beneficiaries:         The Trust Fund for Commercial Development (FIDEC),
private sector enterprises through commercial banks,
and the National Marketing Information Service (SNIM).
Amount:                US$100 million equivalent
Terms:                 Seventeen years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variaole interest rate.
Relending Terms:       The Borrower would transfer US$100,000 to SNIM as a
grant; the balance of the loan amount would be made
available to FIDEC, of which US$98.6 million would be
on-lent to private enterprises through commercial
banks. Subloans would be denominated in Mexican pesos
or U.S. dollars at the option of the sub-borrower.
For loans in pesos, the Borrower would make the funds
available to FIDEC in pesos at the one month CETES
(Mexican Treasury Bills) rate, which represents the
marginal cost of funds to the Government, or at any
other reference rate mutually agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank; FIDEC would repay principal and
interest with the same terms and grace periods as the
Bank loan. The Government would take the foreign
exchange risk on the loan. The CETES rate, being a
market based rate in an open capital market, includes
a foreign exchange risk component. For loans
denominated in U.S. dollars, the Borrower would make
funds available to FIDEC at the three-month LIBOR rate
plus 0.5 percentage point. FIDEC would on-lend the
funds to commercial banks either in Mexican pesos or
U.S. dollars at a weighted average interest rate to
provide FIDEC a margin of at least 2.0 percentage
points over FIDEC's weighted average cost of funds
(either in Mexican pesos or in U.S. dollars,
respectively). These banks would relend the funds to
sub-borrowers at rates established in the General
Interest Rate Agreement between Mexico and the Bank
(peso subloans) and at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 4.0
percentage points (dollar subloans).
Proiect Description:  This project is designed to: (i) help improve the
efficiency of the food marketing system through the
adoption of modern technology and improved marketing
practices, and (ii) improve the transparency of the
system and thus competition through a better
dissemination of infotmation on price and volume of



products traded. To that end, the project would
include a general line of credit (99? of total project
cost), expansion of market information services,
special studies, technical assistance to retailers and
producers, and institutional development (1 of total
project cost). This project fits well within the
Government's integrated financial sector reform.
Prolect Risks:         The principal project risk would be a possible
contraction of credit demand due to currently high
real interest rates; although these rates are still
quite high, they decreased by over 20 percentage
points during the last few months after a tentative
agreement was reached on Mexico's external debt
reduction. In addition, the external debt reduction
agreement, expected soon between Mexico and its
commercial creditors. would have a beneficial impact
on Mexico's fiscal situation and renew Mexico's
confidence in its future econom-ic stability. This, in
turn, is expected to bri.,g about further decreases in
real interest rate and a gradual restoration of
growth. Moreover, the Government's commitment to open
up the economy through structural adjustments in the
agricultural, industrial, and financial sectors
mitigates the possible risk of contraction of demand
as these adjustments are already inducing substantial
private sector investment.
Estimated Cost:              Local            Foreign              Total
…_______-------- US$ Million ---------------
General Line of Credit        98.6              77.5                176.1
Institutional Support          0.1               1.4                  1.5
Total Project Cost         98.7              78.9               177.6
Financing Plan:              Local            Foreign              Total
---------------- US$ Million -----------=
IBRD                          21.1              78.9                100.0
FIDEC                         24.8               0.0                 24.8
Participating FIs             17.6               0.0                 17.6
Sub-borrowers                 35.2               0.0                 35.2
Total Financing             98.7              78.9                177.6
Estimated Disbursements:                      Bank FY
1990     1991      1992      1993     1994
-------------- US$ Million -------------
Annual1                     26.3      17.1     18.0      18.8      19.8
CumulAtive                  26.3     43.4      61.4      80.2    100.0
Retroactive Financing: Up to US$10.0 million for expenses made up to 6
months prior to loan signing
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report No.:  8095-ME
1/ Includes retroactive financing of US$10.0 million equivalent and
initial deposit of US$10.0 million equivalent in Special Account in
FY90



- 3 -
II. THE FOOD MARKETING SECTOR
A. INTRODUCTION: ECONOffIC BACKGROUND
Background
1.       After a long period of growth, Mexico's economic situation changed
dramatically in 1982 when rising world interest rates and falling oil
prices put an end to the country's increasingly expansionary policies. The
refusal of external creditors to roll over Mexico's short term debt left no
option but fiscal retrenchment. Mexico, which had run non-interest current
account deficits in each of the preceding thirty years, suddenly needed to
run surpluses on that account in every following year. The ratio of
external debt to GDP increased by about 25 percentage points during the
perid 1982-1987 under the influence of rising interest rates and falling
growth rates. In addition, there were substantial capital losses on
external debt because the real exchange rate depreciated as a result of the
major decline in oil revenues and the rise in real interest obligations on
the foreign debt.
2.       The counterpart to the non-interest current account improvement
was sustained fiscal adjustment effort that is probably unmatched in any
country. A primary fiscal deficit of 7.6% of GDP before the 1982 crisis
was turned into an estimated 5.8% surplus in 1988. And this was achieved
while revenues from oil exports declined by more than 7% of GDP between
1983 and 1988, and GDP growth declined dramatically. Non-interest
Government expenditure was reduced from the equivalent of 35.4% of GDP in
1982 to about 22.6% in 1988. Ti. public enterprise divestiture program was
successful in closing or selling roughly 700 smaller entities, out of a
total of about 1200 in 1982. The severe fiscal cutbacks have greatly
increased the efficiency of many of the remaining government operations.
3.       A most significant change was a major reorientation towards fuller
integration with the world economy. Since mid-1985, Mexico has undertaken
a fast and far-reaching liberalization of the trade regime, aimed at
expanding the tradeables sector, opening it to international competition
and encouraging efficiency in both exporting, and import-substitution
activities. In 1986 Mexico acceded to the GATT. The trade liberalization
process was supported by Bank operations (Trade Policy I and II, and
Agricultural Sector I). The initial results are promising. Incentives
have been redirected and restructuring toward more efficient activity has
begun. Exports of manufactures, spurred by a 42% real exchange rate
depreciation over the July 1985 - December 1987 period, have overtaken oil
exports and more than compensated for the US$7 billion oil revenue loss
experienced over the same time. In agriculture, the policy reforms
initiated since 1985, and especially since October 1987, have substantially
reduced direct and indirect price discrimination against producers.
Exchange rate policy has become more favorable to all tradeable sectors.
Import barriers and export restrictions have been subatantially reduced.
Progress has gone beyond the Government's original schedule, GATT
commitments, and the targets in the Trade Policy Loans I and II and the
Agricultural Sector Loan I.



- 4 -
4.       In line with this reorientation of the economy, the Government has
been undertaking major changes in food policy implementation. Global food
subsidies administered by CONASUPO have been reduced substantially during
the past several years from about 1% of GDP in 1983 to less than 0.6% of
GDP in 1988, while targeted food subsidies tc the poor have been increased.
Although price controls were considerably relaxed with the number of
products subject to rigid price controls falling from 110 in 1981 to 21 in
1986, these controls were enacted again in December 1987 under the Economic
Solidarity Pact and are still being applied today. Helped by a real
depreciation of the peso over recent years and a decline in real wages,
agricultural exports have been strongly promoted. Tariffs and import
permits on many food items and agricultural invuts such as machines and
pesticides have been reduced. Export restrictions on fruits and
vegetables, which represent 25% of crop output, have been substantially
decreased. CONASUPO has started to relocate its stores to increase the
rural share of total sales from 10.5% in 1978 to 33% in 1966 and has closed
500 stores not located in priority areas. It has also divested itself of
TRICONSA, a major flour milling operation. These changes have been major
steps to improve competition on the domestic food market and, in effect,
open it up to direct international competition.
5.       Given Mexico's sudden difficulty in accessing the international
capital markets and the adverse terms of trade shocks it experienced, a
fiscal retrenchment was unavoidable. Real growth stopped between 1982 and
1987, and hence per capita income declined sever?ly. Also, inflation,
rather than slowing down, in fact accelerated towards the end of the
period, partially in response to a sharp nominal devaluation that had
become necessary because of the abrupt oil price decline in 1986. The
stock market plunge and less than perfect management of private debt buy
backs evolving from the 1987 debt rescheduling triggered a run on the peso
in October 1987. This resulted in reserve losses and eventually a 37%
devaluation, fueling inflation and expectations of further exchange rate
depreciations. The Government responded with the "Economic Solidarity
Pact" (Pacto), a concerted effort to bring down inflation that was running
well into triple digits by end-1987.
Macroeconomic Development in 1988
6.       The "Economic Solidarity Pact" (Pacto) was negotiated in December
1987 between Government, labor, farming, and business representatives. The
program consisted of further tightening of fiscal and monetary policy, and
renewed structural reforms efforts. Trade liberalization was accelerated,
credit subsidies substantially reduced, and the program of public
enterprise divestiture reinforced. These measures were supplemented by a
freeze of minimum wages, public sector prices and tariffs, and, what was a
cornerstone of the "Pacto", freezing the nominal exchange rate against the
U.S. dollar. This partial freeze was extended at three month intervals
through the end of 1988.
7.       Performance under the "Pacto" often went beyond what was initially
planned: trade reform was accelerated, the fiscal deficit was brought
closely in line with the low inflation targets embedded in the "Pacto", and
the fiscal measures, backed up by the exchanged rate freeze and an array of
formal and informal price controls, have had a dramatic success in reducing
the rate of inflation from 159% in 1987 to 52% in 1988. However, domestic



- 5 -
real interest rates crept up to a compounded real rate in excess of 402
towards the end of the year.
8.       The policy of a fixed Peso-Dollar rate came under increasing
pressure in 1988 as the year went by, especially because oi the
appreciation of the dollar, international interest rates, and falling oil
prices. As a result, the real exchange rate against the US Dollar
appreciated by 9.2%. Doubts about the sustainability of the exchange rate
may have caused the surge in imports which increased by 48% in 1988. Non-
oil exports, including non-traditional agricultural exports and
"maquiladora" products, increased by 16% in dnllar terms in 1988, but
because of the falling revenues from oil, total exports grew by only 52 in
nominal terms in 1988 over 1987. The net result was a deficit in the
current account of US$2.9 billion in 1988 compared to a surplus of about
US$3.9 bi'llion in 1987.
Macroeconomic Policies in 1989
9.       In December 1988 the Mexican Government and the various sectors of
society agreed on a renewal of the 'Pacto" as the initial phase of economic
policies for 1989. This renewed Pacto called Stabilization and Growth Pact
(PECE) aimed to consolidate price stability and contained specific
guidelines through the end of July 1989. Within this framework, public
sector prices and tariffs were adjusted, minimum wages were increased by 82
arA the peso was being depreciated daily according to a pre-announced
schedule of one peso a day per dollar.
10.      The PECE has been performing very much like the Pacto, with the
same success and weaknesses. The new administration's fiscal performance
has improved significantly, both by additionel cuts in expenditures and by
increased revenues. As a result, the primary balance has been strengthened
and the overall deficit has been reduced by 65% in real terms. The
external trade balance has improved compared to the last quarter of 1988 (a
US$233 million surplus in the first quarter of the year), mainly as a
result of higher than expected oil revenues. Non-oil exports are growing
at a very modest rate (2-6% p.a.), reflecting a significant erosioni in the
undervaluation of the real exchange rate. The inflation rate has been
similar to the latter part of 1988 (1.5-1.7% per month in the first five
months), despite some adiustments in the key prices in January 1989.  The
trend seems to be favorable and points to further reduction in inflation in
the second half of the year, to reach an annual level of less than 202 at
the end of the year compared to 52% in 1988. Even with restrictive fiscal
policy, the overall economic activity has grown: in the first four months
the GDP rose at 1.5% on an annual basis, with industrial output growing at
twice that rate. Because of uncertainty regarding the sustainability of
the program and the external debt overhang, domestic interest rates
remained extremely high during the first semester, with CETES rates close
to 40% in real terms.
11.      In mid-June, the PECE was extended through March 1990, further
emphasizing the importance of stabilization, str'ct fiscal discipline,
minimum daily adjustments in the exchange rate, continued public price
controls, and moderation in wage adjustments. PECE II also stresses the
need for further economic deregulation, adequate pricing in agriculture and
allows for some price adjustments in exceptional cases.



-6
Towards Renewed Growth
12.      Following eight years of falling per capita income, the Mexican
Government has set as its overriding objective the restoration of economic
growth. Sustainable growth will requir_; macroeconomic stak'llity and access
to ex ernal financing. The stabilization program has made majot headway,
but the social consensus behind this reform would be in serious jeopardy if
economic growth did not recover. Six years of no real growth, falling per
capita income and 60 percent decline in real wages is simply not tenable
from a social and political point of view, quite apart from its
considerable economic costs. Thus the imperative of relaxing the external
constraint that has been the major factor behind Mexico's stagnation since
1982.
13.      On July 23, Mexico and its commercial creditors reached a
tentative agreement on a restructuring of US$52.7 billion of Mexico's
external debt. Creditor banks are presented with a menv of options
including a debt reduction facility, a debt service reduction facility,
and a new money facility. Under the arrangement, a total of US$7 billion
is to be provided up front in January 1990 to secure debt service and debt
reduction instruments. The debt relief package, depending upon the options
the banks end up choosing will reduce the net transfer Mexico needs to make
to its creditorL by US$3-4 billion per year over the next six years. This
will have a direct beneficial impact on Mexico's fiscal situation and a
gradual restoration of growth towards the goal of 5% per annum is likely.
Also, at least as impor=:ant may be the indirect, secondary effects through
renewed confidence by reducing uncertainty about future exchange rates,
financial regulation and taxation. In addition, it greatly reduces the
risk associated with Peso-denominated public sector debt. One should
therefore expect a reduction in domestic real interest rates. Developments
since the details of the package became known strongly support this
argument: interest rates fell from 56% to 34% on an uncompounded basis and
from 73% to 40% on a compounded basis.
14.      The proposed second Agricultural Marketing Project supports the
Government's objective of renewed growth. It is a logical step to
consolidate the momentum achieved under the first Agricultural Marketing
Project and continue to modernize the food marketing system where there are
still significant bottlenecks. It will support the modernization of
commercial infrastructure by improving the efficiency of private sector
distributors. The project's background, rationale, and objectives are
lescribed in more details later in this report.
B. THE FINANCI.,L SECTOR
15.      Mexico has started an extensive process to reform its financial
system which was distorted as a result of a patchwork of regulations and
controls imposed over the years. This reform process has been accelerated
since discussions with the Bank on this sector sttarted in October 1988 and
has been the basis for a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) approved
in June 1939.
An Over-reaulated Financial Sector
16.      Over-regulation of commercial banks through interest rate
controls, credit limits and forced lending schemes have weakened the



- 7 -
financial situation of commercial banks. Their situation worsened in 1982
when many banks with net foreign currency liabilities lost much of their
capital when the peso was sharply devalued   Inflatior exacerbated the
situation as under controlled interest rates, banks' financial margins
shrank while their loan portfolio worsened. Many banks were insolvent when
they were nationalized in Septemiber 1982.
In'tial Measures taenby_ythe Government After 1982
17.      ''he Government took a number of measures to improve the financial
system. everal of the 60 financial i-stitutions were merged to form the
present 20 commercial banks and bank holdings in related non-banking firms
were sold. Many failing commercial banks have been restored to solvency
and their capital increased since 1984. In 1987, 34% of the commercial
banks' equity was sold to the private sector and the government reiterated
its intention that commercial banks be run independently responding to
market forces. In parallel, the governiment implicitly encouraged the
development of brokerage houses which, unlike commercial banks, were free
of controls and became an important vehicle to channel funds to the private
sector. Many of the 25 privately-owned brokerage firms are run by former
bankers who moved after bank nationalization.
18.      Mexico's financial system now consists principally of a central
bank (Banco de Mexico), 20 commercial banks, 8 development banks, 21
government trust funds and 25 privately owned brokerage firms. Commercial
bank capital is now 3.4% of total assets, small by international standards,
but higher than the 1.6% in 1984. The 8 development banks together rival
commercial banks in total assets. They focus more on lending than on
deposit gathering because over two thirds of their funds are from abroad,
mostly long-term loans. The 21 government financial trust funds lend
through commercial or development banks.
SiiRnificant Problems Remaining
19.      When discussions started with the Bank in October 1988, the
financial system had improved, but significant problems remained. First,
lending to the private sector was limited and misallocated. In addition to
the reserve requiremente (10% of deposits), commercial banks were forced to
lend 31% of their funds to the Government, 10% to development banks, 7.8%
to housing and other favored segments of the economy and 16.2% to
development activities at different, but below market interest rates. T-.is
was aggravated under the "Pacto" when lending to the private sector was
limited to 85% of its December 1987 nominal value, with any excess going to
the Government at less than market interest rates.
Reforms Since October 1988
20.      The Government made changes in two steps.  In the first step,
commercial banks were essentially allowed to gather uncontrolled deposits
which displaced the controlled system. Previously, interest rates on
deposits were set nationally, preventing the more efficient banks from
growing by competing for funds. Furthermore, no interest could be paid on
checking accounts and interest on savings accounts were set at levels far
below market. The second step was in April 1989 when most forced lending
(except for 30% of deposits to be invested in government paper) and all
interest rate controls on the older ieposits were removed, thereby largely
freeing the commercial banking system. This switch to unregulated deposits



- 8 -
has encouraged greater price competition between commercial banks for
funds. Each bank may now set the rates and other terms on their deposits
and loans. The Financial Sector Adjustment Loan supports these efforts as
well as technical assistance to improve banking supeivision.
Problems of Development Banks and Trust Funds
21.      A separate problem in the financial sector relates to development
banks and trust funds. The first concern is that the roles of some of the
development banks and trust funds are not clear, there may be sn overlap
and duplication in their functions, and/or need to redefine their functions
within the context of the financial sector reform. The second concern is
that subsidies by some trust funds to final borrowers through less than
market interest rates or uncollected loans have not been as tightly
controlled as they should be.  As a result, their capital base was eroded,
aggravating the Government's fiscal situation to make up for the erosion,
and commercial banks' participation in their activities was discouraged.
The third concern is that transfers to some of these entities as capital
contributions were large and encouraged wasteful practices.
22.      Two important policy decisions have been agreed by the Government
under the FSAL and are relevant to the proposed second Agricultural
Marketing Project: the removal of most interest rate subsidies and the
redefinition of the role of trust funds within the context of the financial
sector reform. These policy decisions have an w.iportant bearing on FIDEC,
which is the main beneficiary of the proposed loan (discussed in more
detail under paras 63-68).
Bank Actions within the Agricultural Credit System
23.      Through the Eighth and Ninth Agricultural Credit Loans, the Bank
has played an important role to improve agricultural c'edit in Mexico.
Through the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA), the Bank has required
gradual increases in interest rates to bring them closer to market rates
and to reduce the dispersion of interest rates. Under this scheme,
interest rates have been regularly adjusted upwards and have reached the
average cost of funds index (ACF), except for those to low-income
producers. Tnese measures, together with the shift from fixed to variable
rates, have reduced the decapitalization of agricultural trust funds,
especially FIRA, a trust fund of the Bank oL Mexico which rediscounts loans
to the agricultural sector provided mainly by commercial banks.
24.      Despite this progress, rural finar.-.ial markets are still quite
fragmented, controlled and subsidized. Credit allocation and interest
rates are controlled through rediscounts from FIRA, and through the
BANRURALIANAGSA/FICART system, which primarily serves "ejidos" and small
farmers.2 During 1988, the Government support to the system through
fiscal transfers and assumptiori of debt surpassed US$1.7 billion, or about
10 percent of agricultural GDP.
2/ Major land tentsre type in rural Mexico--Term used in 16th Century Spain
and transferred to the New World to describe communal land surrounding
rural township and providing free access to forest and pasture land;
under Mexican Agrarian Reform referring to land expropriated from large
estates and given in collective title to group of peasants.



25.      Reforming the rural financial subsector would require massive
institutional reforms over a number of years. To address the issues
affecting the sector, the Bank is currently preparing a Rural Finance
Subsector Project which would improve the overall efficiency of rural
financial markets so that they could better contribute to increasing the
country's rate of growth by supporting the Government efforts to:
(i) streamline the responsibilities of the trust funds through the phasing
out of FICART and its eventual merging into BANRURAL and the proposed
gradual reduction of FIRA's role in lending concurrent with an increase in
long-term lending by commercial banks, (ii) reorganize ANAGSA to turn it
into an efficient voluntary insurance company limited to specific perils;
(iii) reorganize BANRURAL to turn it into a self-sustained financial
institution capable of mobilizing deposits qnd raising funds in the capital
market to better serve economically viable low-income farmers;
(iv) decrease fragmentation of rural financial markets by simplifying
interest rates and df.creasing the gap between commercial rates and those
for agricultural activities; (v) reduce a host of credit regulations which
support expensive, paternalistic credit practices; and (vi) improve access
of the rural population to efficient financial savings institutions. These
changes would substantially decrease the dependence of the rural credit
system on fiscal transfers and enhance the access of low-income farmers to
credit.
C. EVOLUTION OF FOOD MARKETING IN MEXICO
The Food Sector in the Economy
26.      Food marketing in Mexico is important because of the vital
function it performs: it is estimated that on average, households spend as
much as 45% of their disposable income on food. As a result, the food
sector occupies a prominent place in the overall economy. There are about
350,000 units engaged in direct food marketing, representing 31.9% of the
total number of economic units in the country and employing 800,000
workers, i.e., 13.0% of the total labor force. In 1988 it is estimated
that the food industry represented about 6.2% of GDP.
Effects of Urbanization and Income
27.      The growth of the food marketing sector is the direct result of
the economic development process through which Mexico has evolved from a
rural, agriculture-based economy to a more urban, industrial society. Over
the last 20 years, there has been a dramatic shift in the concentration of
population toward large cities. Mexico City, with an estimated 18 million
inhabitants, is the second largest metropolitan area in the world. Other
expanding areas are Guadalajara, Monterrey, the large population centers
along the U.S. border which have grown alongr with the maquiladora
industries, and, to a smaller extent, the agricultural areas of the
Northwest and the resort areas on the Pacific and Caribbean coasts.
Internal migration is expected to continue as people are still leaving the
rural areas to look for jobs in the cities. Thus, additional food
marketing services as well as modernization of existing facilities are
required including assembly of production, processing.    -
wholesaling, storage, packaging, and retailing.



- 10 -
28.      While the population has been increasing sharply in the cities,
consumer demand has been shifting away from grains and starchy commodities
to increased consumption of perishable products. Also, because of the
higher value of consumers' time, urban dwellers have an increased demand
for convenience. They also acquire a taste for different types of foods
and require a larger variety of products. Hence, marketing agents must
adapt their operations to respond to different streams of varying volumes,
types and qualities of food products.
29.      The economic au;sterity does not appear to have reduced demand for
food products as much as for other consumption products. In fact, as real
income declined in the 1980s, the proportion of household income spent on
food has increased. With real income shrinking, consumers have shifted
towards more basic goods: food items take preference over other consumer
goods like clothing and other general merchandise, and within the food area
consumers have lowzered their purchases of more expensive processed and
canned products to move towards non-processed goods and perishables.
D. THE PRESENT SYSTEM OF FOOD MARKETING
Coexistence of Traditional and Modern System
30.      Two marketing systems now coexist in Mexico:  a traditional one
and a modern one. The traditional sector is comprised of farmers who are
small and geographically scattered and largely limit themselves to the
primary production role. Because of this structure there is a large number
of local and regional brokers to assemble crops at the producer level.
Wholesalers are usually specialists in a limited number of sommodities and
sell largely to traditional neighborhood family stores. In the modern
sector, producers have larger volumes of product and are better organized
in terms of harvesting, packing, sorting and selling. Being larger and
better organized, they have different options to market their products:
they can export, sell directly to large retail chains, or sell to
traditional wholesalers. Furthermore, the wholesaling function is being
taken over more and more by retail chains which have specialized purchasing
departments buying a large proportion of products directly from producers.
The traditional and the modern system coexist, but Mexico is moving
increasingly towards the modern system as evidenced by the growth of
supermarkets which are now competing with each other in almost all the
urban areas in Mexico.
Overall Presentation
31.      The following table attempts to provide a graphic description of
the food marketing system in Mexico.
r              -T         T-       -- --
EXFORTS PRODUCERS                   W       MOLSAS   RETAILERS      CONSUMERS
7,800          344,000      I 80O00N,ON
32.      The most common circuit is the horizontal one in full line, where
the producer either exports his products or sells them domestically through



- 11 -
a broker, a wholesaler and a retailer. Other variations appear in dotted
lines. For example, it is estimated that about 10 of producers on average
sell directly to large retailers, thus bypassing all intermediaries. In
other cases where individual producers are small and scattc d (not
illustrated for sake of simplicity) there may be up to thre, levels of
brokers before reaching the wholesaler. There are still too many layers of
intermediaries in Mexico. The proposed project will attempt to reduce
these layers by supporting subprojects which would increase economies of
scale of producers, wholesalers and retailers and cut down on the number of
intermediaries.
Producers
33.      Many farmers have not developed marketing skills and remain
production-oriented. The classification, packaging and handling of fruits
and vegetables at the farm is still at an early stage of development
compared to the handling of export products. Several products such as
oranges, watermelons or cucumbers are shipped in truckloads without crates.
Thus, because of deficient post-harvest handling, lack of on-farm storage,
rudimentary packing and limited use of cold storage and specialized
transport equipment, there is significant product damage before the product
reaches the consumer. Various studies have estimated losses ranging from
5-30%. Hence, there is considerable need for investment in better
cleaning, grading, pac'aging and handling equipment as well as refrigerated
storage and transport to reduce product deterioration, especially of meat,
poultry, fish, dairy products and selected fruits and vegetables.
34.      Small farmers will still require individual assistance, although a
more efficient scheme will be the financing of producers' associations at
the local level. Existing associations requiring financing for
modernization of equipment will be supported under the project and the
creation of new associations will be encouraged. Additionally, the project
would allow producers to access wholesale markets directly by financing
their purchasing of stalls in regional wholesale markets.
35.      Larger producers account for most of the commercial output with
57% and 50% of fruit and vegetable production, respectively. They are
associated through national organizations such as Union Nacional de
Productores de Hortalizas y Frutas (UNPH) which regroups strong regional
associations such as Confederacion de Asociaciones Agricolas del Estado de
Sinaloa (CAADES). These are well-organized associations that monitor the
export and domestic market and regulate planted areas with the objective of
providing favorable prices to producers. UNPH grants certificates of
origin which gives it the power tc enforce its guidelines. UNPH is
particularly strong in the northwest states where its membership consists
largely of winter exporters. Although the number of perishable products
requiring an export permit has been significantly reduced, there are still
a number of products requiring an export permit. This issue has been
brought to the Gevernment's attention and will be addressed under the
second Agriculturul Sector Loan now under preparation.  Producers of summer
crops, located in the central states around Mexico City and aiming mostly
at the domestic market are more loosely associated through local or
regional associations. These larger companies are making important efforts
to increase their exports and will need financing for additional
investments in infrastructure and equipment. These efforts will be
supported under the project.



- 12 -
Wholesalers
36.      There are 10 major wholesale markets in Mexico with the larger
ones being in Mexico City, Monterrey, Guadalajara, Torreon and
Aguascalientes, and the smaller ones in Puebla, Leon, Merida, Irapuato and
Reynosa. About 75% of the markets are private and 25% are public,
including the important Mexico City market, probably the largest wholesale
market in the world. About 40% of national production goes through the
Mexico City market.
37.      Although there are 15 additional smaller wholesale markets
throughout the country, there is still a lack of adequate wholesale produce
markets in a number of large growing urban areas as well as medium-sized
cities (50,000-500,000 inhabitants). In many of these cities wholesale
markets have grown as haphazard physical groupings of wholesalers in the
center of cities. With urban growth, these markets have become too small
to manipulate the required volumes which would permit them to achieve
economies of scale. Furthermore, they are dirty and their lack of design
and overall management results in poor handling of products and traffic
jams. With time it has become necessary to create modern, well-designed
markets allowing producers, wholesalers, and retailers to interchange
larger volumes of goods in an efficient way. Also, many cities do not have
wholesale markets and this results in excessive transshipment as produce is
first shipped from farms to large urban markets like Mexico City and back
to local distributors, resulting in higher transport costs, product losses,
and additional intermediation costs. Given their budget limitations,
States and municipalities have backed away from this type of investment.
Thus, there is a need for the construction of new private wholesale markets
which would be financed under the project. Adequate modern warehousing
would be promoted and rented to wholesalers with a purchase option.  The
markets would have the necessary facilities for the adequate reception of
trucks, storage and refrigeration facilities and stalls for selling
products. Each of these markets is estimated to cost US$3-4 million.
38.      Many wholesalers are going through an important adaptation period.
As a result of the growth of retail chains and their direct purchasing from
producers, there is a decline in the number of the small traditional retail
outlets needing to be supplied by wholesalers. As a result, many
wholesalers are trying to increase their volume of operations and their
efficiency through expanding their product lines, creating voluntary chains3
and wholesaler purchasing associations, and even developing and owning
retail chains themselves. These kinds of on-going efforts and the
3/ A v4oluntary chain consists of a group of independent retailers who
enter into a contractual agreement with a sponsoring wholesaler.
Retailers accept certain obligations as members of the chain, such as
store design and management practices, and in return, the sponsoring
wholesaler provides services to the retailer such as group buying,
group advertising and group merchandising. The combination of
increased volume and concentration of purchases with the wholesaler
enables the wholesaler to increase inventory turnover and to maintain
inventory levels at minimum practical levels to save investment costs,
organize improved materials handling methods, and economize on space.
These savings are passed on to retailers and in turn to consumers.



- 13 -
promotion of new ones which would make wholesalers more efficient are those
that will be supported by the project. To modernize their operations,
wholesalers need financing for investment in transportation equipment,
product handling equipment, storage and display facilities, and, equally
important, thev need additional working capital to broaden their product
lines and increase their volume of operations.
Retailers
39.      As discussed above, the retail sector in Mexico is characterized
by the coexistence of a traditional and a modern sector. Traditional
outlets such as "tiendas de barrio" that are family owned and operated
represent more than 90% of retail establishments in Mexico. Because of
their small scale of operation, traditional stores have high labor costs
per unit, resulting in a higher cost of food to the consumer. A 1987 INEGI
survey shows that -ales per worker in a traditional outlet are a fourth of
those in a modern store. A number of small retailers have the potential
vision and aspirations necessary for making the transition from traditional
to modern stores. They need financing to recondition their outlets,
enlarge and improve shelf space, acquire fixed assets such as cash
registers and refrigeration equipment, and expand their product lines.
Some of them may be financed directly, but many lack the adequate loan
gaarantees and their small size results in high transaction costs for
commercial banks servicing these merchants. They could be financed through
associations with wholesalers, voluntary chains or purchasing unions. They
will be supported by the project.
40.      The modern retailing sector has grown considerably over the last
five years even under harsh economic conditions and now represents 37% of
the whole food market. It is characterized by: (i) convenience stores,
(ii) independent small local supermarkets, (iii) regional chains with
modern management like national chains but with smaller purchasing power,
and (iv) national chains with modern operating practices and a wide product
line including food, clothing, and general merchandise. Like traditional
retailers, most convenience stores' owners are adverse to change, but some
do want to introduce innovations in their operating procedures, such as
widening their product lines to include dry goods and improving quality and
store presentation. More advanced are independent supermarkets who have
already made an important commitment towards modernizing their operations
through physical changes in store appearances and the introduction of self-
service operations. However, they still need considerable support to truly
make the transition by extending product lines, carrying more perishables,
selling better quality products and reducing prices. The project will help
small and medium-sized retailers by financing investment in fixed assets
and some working capital, and a special effort will be made to provide
technical assistance in marketing and management. A limited amount of
incremental working capital is important as the purchasing of larger
volumes by retail stores allows them to provide 7-10% price reductions to
consumers. Local and regional chains are already modern operations, but
they need financing to expand the number of their stores and their
geographic coverage. The development of local regional chains will be
supported as it helps check the power of large national chains and induces
a greater level of competition into the system. These local and regional
chains also do undertake some specific operations worth financing under the
project: (i) ventures dealing with direct purchasing from growers, (ii)
establishment of outlets in low-income neighborhoods, and (iii) creation of
new stores in border cities or small towns.



- 14 -
Atroprocessors and Exporters
41.      The proce- -i food industry has continued to grow during the last
5 years in spite c' -Le downturn in the economy. The industry has
increased its profi .. bility through the closing down of marginal plants and
raised its productivity by modernizing their operations. The expected
continued growth of the processed food industry will require the financing
of new investment in equipment notably for dehydration and freezing,
additional warehousing, transport equipment and will create need for
additional working capital. An important development in the agroprocessing
sector is that the Government is currently divesting itself of a number of
agroprocessing companies. The project is expected to have an important
role in helping finance the commercialization of fish products. On the one
hand, the Government is divesting itself of processing plants such as fish
packing plants and private investors will need financing for renovation and
expansion. On the other hand, the closing of BANPESCA creates the need for
financing through commercial banks and trust funds such as FIDEC and FIRA.
FIDEC has undertaken a study of the commercialization of fish showing the
need to modernize existing packing plants, improve capacity utilization and
reach economies of scale so that they become internationally competitive.
In addition, the lack of refrigerated warehouses and specialized transport
for tuna is currently creating distribution bottlenecks and FIDEC has been
receiving requests for financing this kind of infrastructure.
Privatization is also occurring in the fruits and vegetables sector where
collection and packing centers owned by parastatals such as CONAFRUT are
being sold to private investors and additional funds to modernize these
facilities may be required.
42.      Mexico's agricultural and manufactured food exports have grown
6.7% p.s. by value since 1982. In 1987, agricultural exports accounted for
13.8% of the total value of all of Mexico's exports. This growth results
from: (i) the Government's pro-export orientation policy, (ii) the real
depreciation of the Mexican peso, (iii) the fall in real wages which
favored labor-intensive agricultural operations, and (iv) the contraction
of the domestic market.
43.      With the opening of the economy, Mexican exports of agricultural
products are expected to continue to grow and diversiZy, resulting in
considerable need for investment in infrastructure and equipment by
exporters. Pre-shipment financing is already available through Banco
Nacional de Comercio Exterior (BNCE) and FOMEX, but fixed assets financing
for export financing is generally not available for agriculture, whereas
such financing for industry is available from NAFIN. FIDEC could have an
important role in financing fixed assets for export-related marketing
operations. Exah4,les of operations that could be financed include hot-
water treatment equipment for mango exporters, transport equipment for
bananas, packing houses for fruits and vegetables, freezing units for
broccoli and cauliflower, and warehouses for pre-export in border cities
such as Ciudad Juarez and Reynosa, given that Nogales, the most important
exporting city, is becoming saturated. These types of subprojects would be
in line with the evolution of the Mexican economy and the Government's
increased support to exporters.
RcgRUlatory Issues
44.      During the preparation of the first Marketing Project it had been
assumed that wholesalers had excessive monopoly power relative to producers



- 15 -
and consumers. However, the project did not explicitly address the
regulatory issues which would have permitted this monopoly power and was
carried out within the existing operating environment. Analysis undertaken
during the preparation of the present project shows that the impact of the
excessive concentration in individual wholesale markets appears to have
been exaggerated. The wholesalers have no formal mechanism to regulate
prices nor any regulations to back them up, there are no excessive barriers
to entry and producers can bypass wholesale markets entirely by selling
directly to retail chains or by exporting. An important contribution to
improve the sys,tem could be to introduce a formalized auction system within
the wholesale markets. Such systems (e.g. the Aalsmeer flower market in
Holland) usually improve price transparency, quality control and efficiency
of transactions through computerization and better organization and
scheduling of individual sales. This would be studied under the proposed
project. Proposed terms of reference for this study are attached in
Annex 6.
45.      Barriers to entry do not appear to be a problem in the retail
sector except in Mexico City where complicated licensing to open new stores
appear to slow down the modernization process.4   A total of 11 principal
documents, 38 secondary ones, and up to 10 months are required to obtain a
permit. Regulation concerning location of construction, building permits,
health permits, as well as permits to obtain water and electricity are said
to be the main obstacles. As a result, the number of supermarkets as a
proportion of the total number of stores in Mexico City is said to be lower
than the national average, although the higher per capita income in the
capital would normallv require a larger proportion of supermarkets.
Regulation affects considerably more the large national chains and medium-
size stores and much less small individual supermarkets. The licensing
procedure lacks transparency and economic and social considerations do not
always prevail in the decision-making process. This policy appears to slow
down the modernization of the sector as the large and medium chains are
known to be those achieving the most efficiency through economies of scale
and introduction of new technology and management techniques. In addition,
they are the ones having the buying power and organization allowing them to
purchase directly from producers and offering them better prices as a
result of the by-passing of intermediaries. Additional perverse effects of
regulation may be the occasional overdimensioning of stores or the search
of growth through mergers and acquisitions instead of investment in new
infrastructure. Regulations affecting food distribution in Mexico City
would be studied under the project and an action plan, to be agreed between
the Bank and the Government, to improve efficiency of retail food
distribution would be implemented during the proposed project.
46.      In July 1989, the Government has taken important measures to start
deregulating the transport sector where the legislation itself was the
source of monopolistic practices and inefficiencies. Regulation used to
limit the number of trucking concessionaries to about 6,000 and operating
permits were allocated only for specific routes resulting in severe
directional imbalances, idle capacity and higher costs. Furthermore,
Mexican regulation did not allow agricultural licensed vehicles to carry
return loads across state borders, resulting in directional imbalances for
the majority of the fleet and contributing to increased cost to the user.
41 Source: Rodolfo de la Torre - Legislacion y Regulacion del Comercio
Interior (1988)



- 16 -
This issue had already been addressed under the recently approved
Industrial Sector Policy Adjustment Loan (ISPL). This loan required the
presentation of a study of the issues faced by the sector and a plan of
action to address them as a condition of second tranche release.
47.      However, in July 1989 the Government took measures which go far
beyond what had been expected under the ISPL. First, while official
trucking rates were maintained, the Government agreed with the private
sector that it was now possible to negotiate these rates, taking into
account the specifics of the goods. New regulations governing trucking
were approved by a decree of July 7, 1989. These eliminate the mandstory
use of freight centers and the system of route restrictions establish clear
guidelines for obtaining concessions and weaken the distinction between
concessions and permits (thereby achieving an increase in the number of
truckers that may engage in public transportation), allow own-account
operators to move other cargo, thereby reducing the transport cost of food
products through the elimination of empty backhauls.   Preliminary
estimates suggest that the immediate result of deregulation has been the
lowering of rates by 20-30%. Investment in transport equipment is also
expected to increase. Further deregulation in the transportation sector
would be supported under a proposed Deregulation Project.
Information on Prices and Volumes of Transactions
48.      An important effort has been made by the Servicio Nacional de
Informacion de Mercado (SNIM) under the Agricultural Marketing Loan
(2262-ME). Created in 1985, SNIM covers 14 important wholesale markets and
report3 daily prices oi 45 fruits and vegetables traded in 14 wholesale
vegetables representing more than 90Z of horticultural products going to
these markets. Information is processed by computer at each market,
transmitted to Mexico City and published through national newspapers. An
example of the information published is provided in Annex 8. This market
information is also provided to producers associations like CAADES and UNPH
who make it available to their members. This is an important step in the
direction of the price transparency and the efforts of SNIM fill be further
developed in the second project. More specifically, operations would be
improved and further developed: (i) to extend the coverage of meat and
fish, (ii) to provide better dissemination of information to all regions
through wider press or newsletter coverage and through radio, (iii) to
provide international market news, and (iv) to increase the number of
wholesale markets covered.
Government Policy and Stratezy
49.      Up to the early 1980s, the Government had been distrusting the
market system which was said to be characterized by excessive
intermediation and speculation. Food distribution was seen as a struggle
between small groups of powerful intermediaries and large numbers of weak
producers, consumers, and small-scale retailers. However, rather than
verify whether these assumptions were really sound or question what had to
be done to make the market work efficiently, the policy alternative
considered tended to side-step the workings of the market place, and in
effect create a parallel system. Through CONASUPO, the Government has been
intervening heavily in markets for basic products such as basic grains,
meat and milk, but little in fruits and vegetables. With a network of 250
distribution warehouses, 293 supermarkets and 234 convenience type stores,



- 17 -
CONASUPO has been strongly involved in wholesale and retail distribution,
mostly of grains. Also, price controls have been an additional food policy
instrument with a wide coverage. This intervention, generally more
beneficial to urban consumers than to the rural poor, has required a highly
complex administration together with heavy subsidies.
50.      The de la Madrid administration has limited its direct involvement
in fruit and vegetable marketing. To reduce product losses, the National
Supply System (SNA) encouraged the creation by the private sector of modern
infrastructure such as producer assembly markets, wholesale markets, and
specialized storage. Through the SNA, the Government has been encouraging
private entrepreneurs to invest in these facilities by providing them with:
(i) fiscal incentives and (ii) technical norms for the planning,
construction, and operation of these facilities. The Government's direct
investment in marketing infrastructure has been very limited, with the most
notable exceptions being the Mexico City and Puebla wholesale markets.
Also, to improve the transparency of the transactions the Government has
created a National Market Information System (SNIM). Finally, it has been
providing credit for the modernization of private commercial enterprises
through FIDEC who catered principally to wholesalers and retailers, and
FIRA and FICART, vho financed producers.
51.      Importantly also, the Government has been undertaking major
changes in the structure of the Mexican economy which had a significant
impact on food policy implementation. The most important actions
previously described in the economic section of this report were the
reduction of food subsidies, the relaxation of price controls (although
later reintroduced under the Pacto), the reduction of trade barriers, and
the relocation of CONASUPO's stores to rural areas.
Demand for Credit
52.      During the last five years, FIDEC (and to a smaller extent FIRA
and FICART) played a major role in financing the modernization of the
perishable products sector in Mexico, providing US$135 million of long-term
loans to the sector. By contrast, most of the funding of commercial banks
to the sector during that same period was for short-term working capital.
Commercial banks' long-term lending to the private sector has been
considerably restricted because of deposit rate controls and forced lending
to the Government. Uncertainty and high inflation have affected both trust
funds and commercial banks, as there was a larger demand for short-term
credit, but trust funds such as FIDEC performed better in terms of long-
term lending because they had access to foreign capital: today long-term
loans represent about 40% of FIDEC's portfolio whereas commercial banks'
long-term lending is estimated to represent only 5-10% of their overall
portfolio. It would be expected that in a situation of limited long-term
resources, commercial banks would logically give preference to their best
clients. For examnle, well established companies with a proven track
record would have a good chance of receiving a loan whereas a smaller
entrepreneur requesting a credit for his first modernization venture would
more likely be turned down. Thus, FIDEC played an imTortant complementary
role to commercial banks during that period. FIDEC's presence will still
be required in the transitional period of the next few years as the
restructuring of the financial sector will take time to be fully
implemented and to bear its fruits. Long-term lending by commercial banks
for agricultural marketing projects is expected to be at a low level for



- 18 -
the next few years. The demand for such projects will have to be met by
FIDEC during the transitional period.
53.      As capital markets re-emerge as a result of the restructuring of
the financial sector in Mexico, FIDEC's role will have to be reviewed.
Several options could be considered by the Government such as privatizing
FIDEC, selling off its portfolio to commerciel banks, or mouing this type
of lending out into other financial entities such as private merchant
banks. FIDEC's long-term role within the context of the restructuring of
all trust funds would be addressed under the FSAL. The latter requires the
Government to present an action program for the redefinition of the role of
each trust fund and development bank as a condition for second tranche
release. Along the same lines, the Government provided a letter d-t4niag
FIDEC's role within the context of the liberalization of the overall
financial sector.
54.      The trend of disbursements of the first loan shows an accelerating
pace of demand for long-term cred't as the economy was gradually
liberalized and as FIDEC's services became better known and appreciated:
whereas US$61 million (or 53% of the total credit) was disbursed over 4.5
years between January 1984 and June 1988 the balance of US$54 million (or
47%) was disbursed during the last year. Based on this trend, a Bank loan
of US$100 million to be disbursed over five years to finance 56% of total
project cost (estimated at USS223.2 million) would help meet a reasonable
portion of tstimated demand for credit in the marketing subsector, the
balance of US$123.5 million being provided by beneficiaries, commercial
banks and FIDEC. An expected resurgence of economic growth in Mexico could
reault in a quicker than estimated disbursement period.
Bank Involvement in the Sector
55.      The Bank has been involved with agricultural marketing issues
through two projects. Under the first AGSAL the following CONASUPO-related
issues were addressed: (i) budgetary transfers to CONASUPO to cover
operational losses should not exceed US$85 million in 1988 and 1989, (ii)
guarantee producer prices should be within a ba..u of 90-125 percent of
international prices and (iii) targeted food programs for 1988 and 1989
would be expanded to around US$250 million p.a. In the ongoing preparation
for AGSAL II improving basic grains and oilseed policy remains a major
objective. Under the first Agricultural Marketing Project for Perishables
(2262-ME) approved in 1983, the Bank has been providing support to the
entire markating system from producers to retailers in an integrated
project. Through a loan of US$115 million, the Bank has helped farmers,
wholesalers and retailers modernize their marketing operations.
56.      The achievements of the first project are positive.  This
conclusion is based more on case studies undertaken for the project
completion report than on a complete and detailed evaluation which was
difficult as FIDEC's data base was not sufficient for this purpose. The
project has contributed to the modernization of marketing infrastructure
through the financing of 309 transport units, 82 medium-sized supermarkets,
11 wholesale and retail markets, 55 self-service stores, 2346 shops, 1926
warehouses and 83 cold storage facilities.  In terms of beneficiaries, the
US$115 million was disbursed as follows: 75% of the loan went to
wholesalers and retailers, 21% to producers, and the balance of 4% was used
to help develop the National Marketing Information Service (SNIM) and for



- 19 -
training and technical assistance. The component for SNIM was an important
one as it helped improve the transparency of transactions in perishable
products. Furthermore, the project helped to introduce new technologies
and new methods of management, as the sponsor of each subproject had to
demonstrate what innovations he would bring to make his marketing
operations more efficient to receive project financing. The environment
impact was positive as new wholesale markets have a much better sanitation
than the old ones they have replaced. The project has also increased
competition as evidenced for example in the Yucatan where a supermarket
sponsored by a local chain competed successfully with a national chain and
brought a reduction in food prices in the area. FIDEC has made an effort
to promote a more balanced regional development by increasing its
proportion of its total financing in the South from 7% to 25% and reducing
the proportion for the Federal District from 30% to 5% over the life of the
project. During its early years of operation, FIDEC rediscounted up to 70%
of the cost of a subproject. Recent rediscounts show that FIDEC has
started to reduce its rediscount levels to 50-60% of total subproject cost
in order to induce a larger participation by commercial banks. The Project
Completion Report for the first Agricultural Marketing Project shows that
financial rates of return for subprojects have ranged between 45% and 67%,
which indicates that FIDEC has been financing high-quality projects.
57.      The project helped develop FIDEC as a trust fund specialized in
the financing of marketing projects. FIDEC's financial position is strong
(Annex 2). FIDEC is currently financed with 100% equity and has no long-
term debt. Financial projections (Annex 3) show that FIDEC would need
further long-term borrowing to increase its present level of rediscounting
of long-term loans, thus the need for the proposed loan. FIDEC's main
comparative advantage is its specialized knowledge and experience in the
promotion and evaluation of marketing projects. An interesting aspect of
FIDEC's operations is that from the start it has left the full credit risk
to the commercial banks, thus ensuring FIDEC's financial soundness.
Through its technical support under the first Agricultural Marketing
Project, FIDEC has started to help commercial banks improve their
subproject appraisal. A significant additional effort remains to be made
an banks' evaluating capacity for marketing projects is still weak. Th[s
strategy has proved successful as arrears experienced B.y commeicial banks
on subprojects rediscounted by FIDEC have been small, ranging from one to
three percent.
58.      FIDEC is probably the institution in Mexico which knows best what
makes the success or the failure of a marketing subproject. It has an
understanding of distribution channels from producer to consumer at a
country-wide level and its specialization in marketing projects makes it
more knowledgeable than itidividual commercial banks in the sector.
Commercial banks' performance in project evaluation and supervision has
improved during the first project, but they still do not have adequate
expertise in creditworthiness analysis as related to food marketing
operations and still need substantial advice from FIDEC. As banks'
evaluation capacity improves (and this would be supported by e technical
assistance component under the project), their free limits for evaluating
projectc will be gradually increased. Because of its accumulated
experience in evaluation and supervision (which needs to be better
documented through a more formalized assessment of its portfolio), FIDEC
can help commercial banks put together sound business ventures by reshaping
subprojects presented for rediscounting, rejecting excessively defective



- 20 -
propositions, or even using its positive experience to encourage the
financing of reluests that banks may have wanted to reject as a result of
their hesitation through lack of knowledge. While FIDEC undertakes
significant appraisal work itself, it also provides commercial banks with
automatic lines of credit. When using these lines, the banks conduct their
own appraisal. Under the project, FIDEC will be required to increase the
thresholds of banks' automatic lines of credit, and as banks' credit-
worthiness analysis relative to project appraisal improves in the future,
FIDEC will delegate further responsibility to the banks.
59.      FIDEC is a reasonably well managed organization which has been
implementing the first Marketing Project satisfactorily. The new Director,
appointed in January 1989, comes from the Bank of Mexieo and is well
familiar with FIDEC's operations as he was Technical Subdirector of FIDEC
at the time the first Marketing loan was negotiated with the Bank. FIDEC
has two line departments below the Director: the Technical Department and
the Administrative Department. It has five regional offices whose number
may be expanded under the proposed project to improve project promotion
throughout the country. These would include new offices in Chiapas and
Veracruz to improve the effort in regions where considerable progress in
modernizing food distrLbution remains to be made.
60.      Yet there is further need for the improvement of FIDEC's
operations. While its eight years of experience have provided i. with a
reasonable capability of evaluating individual subprojects, FIDEC needs to
develop a wider vision of the food distribution sector. It should
atrengthen its capacity to observe the food distribution network on a
periodical basis and undertake sector analysis. Through strengthened
promotional activities, studies, and discussions with banks and final
borrowers, FIDEC would be in a better position to respond to the needs of
the market. During negotiations, it was agreed that an institutional
advicer, reporting directly to the Director General of FIDEC with adequate
qualifications and experience, will be maintainted during the project (para
99(a)). Also, FIDEC's long-term role in the food marketing sector was
addrossed within the context of the Government's restructuring of trust
funds. This was done through a letter from the Government, defining this
role (para 68). Another problem that would be addressed by this new
function is the insufficient clarity in the distribution of roles among
institutions involved in the food sector, for example, contradictions
between overall modernization objectives of the Government and restrictive
local regulations in Mexico which delay the modernization process. FIDEC
would work in coordination with other Government agencies to study and
address these issues. At present, FIDEC does not have the best mix of
staff and shows some internal capacity gaps as a result of its
organizational structure and distribution of functions. An illustration is
the undertaking of training by the planning unit which reduces staff time
available for planning. The project would increase the skills of the staff
and improve the staff mix.   Furthermore, some FIDEC organizational units
are too small and ill-equipped to handle new responsibilities. Also,
FTSEC's information and monitoring and evaluation systems need considerable
improvement. FIDEC's staff, financial intermediaries, and final
seneficiaries need skill upgrading. These deficiencies would be addressed
under the proposed second project.
61.      Another important issue is the need for FIDEC to transform its
portfolio over time to put a stronger emphasis on long-term lending.



- 21 -
During the recent years of high inflation and uncertainty there was a high
demand for short-term credi: in Mexico and FIDEC's portfolio of short-term
loans has grown considerably more than its long-term portfolio. In spite
of this, FIDEC has made a considerable effort to lend for long-tetm fixed
assets and has disbursed about US$100 million to that effect over the life
of the first project. Yet, it has disbursed even more for short term
financing which, as of December 1988, represented about 80% of its
portfolio. This has happened because, as there was high uncertainty in the
economy and high real interest rates, borrowers pre4-& red short-term loans
to long-term loans even if it meant rolling over several short-term loans
to finance permanent working capital and perhaps in a number of cases,
fixed assets. In addition: (i) FIDEC inherited from another institution
the free frontier program which finances working capital for non-food
itemst and (ii) FIDEC financed short-term working capital loans mostly out
of its own internal cash generation. As the inflationary uncertainty
subsides FIDEC's portfolio should shift significantly towards the longer-
term.
62.      Supervision reports as well as a project completion report of the
first project, now under preparation, show that although the quantitative
impact of the first project was difficult to measure, it has made a
positive contribution to the modernization of food marketing in Mexico
(para 56). Yet, the progress made remains modest compared to the immense
needs required for the modernization of the Mexican food system. The
proposed second project is required to sustain and extend the effort of the
first one.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
63.      The proposed project is a logical step to consolidate the momentum
achieved under the first Agricultural Marketing Project by providing credit
to continue to modernize the food marketing system throughout the chain
from agroprscessors to consumers and increase private sector participation
in food distribution. The project would also improve the transparency of
food commercial transactions through (i) an extension of the National
Marketing Information Service and (ii) a study on the issue of licenses to
open modern retail stores in Mexico City.
64.      The project is a transitional step within the context of progress
on broader financial sector reform. Among several policy decisions agreed
by the Government under the FSAL, two of them are of particular relevance
to the proposed second Agricultural Marketing Project. First, the
Governwent will prepare action programs to redefine the role of each trust
fund and development bank, and the restructuring of BANRURAL and ANAGSA to
improve the efficiency of their operations and substantially reduce the
transfers to these institutions. Second, new loans through development
banks and trust funds will initiate channeling development funds without
any interest subsidies, eyeept for those to low-income producers in
agriculture.
65.      The proposed project fits well within the context of this
integrated financial sector strategy. First, the project would help
redefine the role of the trust funds involved as resources would be
channelled through only one trust fund instead of three (FIDEC, FIRA and
FICART) under the first project, and the most efficient trust fund for
channelling resources to marketing would be used. FIRA and FICART lend
mainly for production purposes, whereas FIDEC finances wholesalers and



- 22 _
retailers whose modernization is essential to achieve an efficient food
distribution system in Mexico. FIDEC, a trust fund of the Bank of Mexico,
with specialized knowledge and experience in marketing projects, has been
operating and would continue to operate in light of what is recommended
under the FSAL. FIDEC is currently one of the financially healthy trust
funds of the Government (Annex 2), well capitalized under the first project
and having done more than 95% of its lending at interest rates above the
average cost of funds (ACF). It is expected to be able to sustain itself
in a cempetitive market environment. Second, in accordance with GIRA,
FIDEC would be lending at interest rates above ACF and consequently it
would not carry any interest subsidies. While under the first project
subloans were quantitatively targeted to each of five categories of
beneficiaries, the second project would optimize resources by providing
credit on the basis of market forces. In addition, under the proposed
second Agricultural Marketing Project, FIDEC will be borrowing funds from
the Government at market rates (CETES) and will be required by the
Government to generate sufficient income to repay the funds on-lent to it
by NAFIN. FIDEC also plans to broaden its resource base. It has recently
changed its operating rules which would allow FIDEC, in the future if
necessary, to mobilize resources from the domestic financial market through
the issue of bonds.
66.      At the present time, long-term credit is largely unavailable
elsewhere in the market as most of the commercial bank resources are short-
term. Although the FSAL supports considerable improvement in the financial
sector, the Bank recogn'zes that long-term credit still remains scarce.
Given the time required for new restructuring measures to show their effect
in the financial sector and the significant economic uncertainty that
remains, it is expected that, for some time, long-term resources of banks
will remain scarce. Thus there is a need for external financing during
this transition period.
67.      FIDEC's advice and assistance to commercial banks will still be
needed during this transition period. Although the commercial banks'
performance in project evaluation and supervision has been improving, they
still do not have as much accumulated and country-wide experience as FIDEC.
Technical and economic criteria, such as critical data required for market
evaluation, sales per floorspace of retail store, average space required by
an individual wholesaler or locaticn of wholesale or retail markets, and
how individual projects should be tailored to meet these criteria for
success will remain an important contribution of FIDEC to commercial banks
in the coming years.
68.      Within the context of the sector's financial restructuring,
FIDEC's long-term role would be better defined. The Government has sent to
the Bank a letter describing: (i) FIDEC's role within the Government's
overall strategy on trust funds as the specialized financial institution
for marketing investments, (ii) the Government's intention to transform
FIDEC into pr_ncipally a long-term funding institution during a
transitional period when long-term funds are not yet available from
financial markets, and (iii) FIDEC's future when long-term financial
markets re-emerge and private marketing companies can easily have access to
long-term financing would be reviewed between the Government and the Bank
through annual discussions. FIDEC is already committed to emphasizing
long-term lending; the share of the latter on FIDEC's overall portfolio has
increased from 20% in December 1988 to just over 40% by October 1989,
surpassing our projected change for December 1989.                                        I



- 23 -
III. THE PROJECT
Oriain of the Proiect
69.      The proposed project was prepared by FIDEC as a follow-up of the
first Agricultural Marketing Project. The Bank reviewed the terms of
reference of the feasibility study and later proposed improvements and
additions to the document. The Bank also undertook a sector report
focussing mainly on regulatory issues in the marketing of perishable
products which was used in the preparation of this project, and highlighted
a number of issues such as export regulation or licensing of stores. A
draft Project Completion Report of the first Agricultural Marketing Project
recommends to consolidate the efforts of the first project through a second
operation. The project was appraised by the Bank in April 1989 and loan
negotiations completed in Washington on November 3, 1989. The Mexican
delegation was lead by Mr. Luis Nava, Executive Representative of NAFIN in
Washington.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
70.      The primary objectives of tne project would be to: (i) help
improve the efficiency of the food marketing system through the adoption of
modern technology and improved marketing practice, (ii) improve the
transparency of the system and thus competition through a better
dissemination of information on price and volume of products traded, and
(iii) consolidate the institutional development of FIDEC. To that end, the
project would include a general line of credit, expansion of market
information services, special studies, technical assistance to retailers
and producers, and institutional development.
71.      General Line of Credit (US$176.1 million).  The credit line would
support medium and long-term sectoral investments over a four year period
through rediscounting facilities from FIDEC to participating FIs. This
would finance long-term investments and working capital in such sectors ass
(a)  Retailers.  The project would finance modernization of stores,
change in store appearance, introduction of self-service, and
ir.vestment in refrigeration. The project would also help local
and regional retail chains develop and expand their activities,
open outlets in low-income neighborhoods or in border cities and
small towns where there is a lack of modern stores. To improve
their coverage of small retailers FIDEC envisages to introduce:
(i) a commercial credit card recognized by major commercial banks,
allowing retailers to draw up to a certain ceiling for financing
of incremental working capital or fixed assets (thus retailers'
credit would be established once and repeated appraisals of small
subprojects would not be necessary) and (ii) guarantees to a
number of small retailers evaluated by FIDEC that would give them
access to the banking system.
(b) Wholesalers. The project would finance the construction of modern
wholesale markets in large growing urban areas as well as
intermediate-sized cities. The sponsors of these subprojects
would be private enterprises with experience in this field. They
would undertake the construction of the market and then sell the
individual spaces to usually about 100-150 wholesalers. The



- 24 -
markets would have the necessary facilities for adequate reception
of trucks, storage and refrigeration facilities and stalls for
selling products. Each of these markets is estimated to cost $3-4
million. The project would also help wholesalers invest in
transport, handling, sorting, and packaging equipment; and would
provide incremental working capital for inventory acquisition and
for accounts receivable. Wholesaler purchasing associations and
wholesalers developing and owning retail chains would also be
encouraged.
(c) Agroprocessors and Exporters. Agroprocessors would receive
financing for investment in dehydration, freezing and other
equipment, warehousing facilities, packing sheds, specialized
transport equipment as well as incremental working capital for raw
materials and finished products to extend producing and selling
periods. Financing would be provided for purchasing of warehouse
space in wholesale markets. Financing of exporters would allow
them to invest in equipment such as specialized trucks, cold
storage facilities and warehouses in border cities.
72.      To help FIDEC to turn principally into a long-term financial
institution, the Bank would only finance up to US$19.6 million (or 202 of
total loan amount for credit) of incremental working capital with the
balance US$79 million of investment loans. This is because experience
from the first project shows that investment in infrastructure and
equipment is not sufficient by itself. Also important in the modernization
process is the widening of product lines by wholesalers and retailers who
need permanent working capital to acquire additional raw materials or
products to achieve the proper economies of scale.
Institutional Development (US$1.5 million)
73.      This component is aimed at eliminating or mitigating major
institutional capacity gaps as identified against project tasks during
preparation through hiring of consultants for (i) assessing and improving
the overall institutional environment in which the project would be
implemented (paras 74); (ii) carrying out specific studies (para 75);
(iii) providing for delivering training activities aiming at bridging
identified skill gaps at various levels (paras 76-77); (iv) providing funds
for the acquisition of documentation (trade publications, statistical
information systems on commercial activity and national economy) to enhance
FIDEC's decision-making capacity and providing borrowers with state-of-the
art information (para 79) , and (v) financing computer equipment to help
SNIM improve the marketing system and better diffuse information on food
prices (para 78). Supervision of the proposed project will be largely
concentrated on the general performance of FIDEC in accordance with the
agreed development program.
74.      Redressina the Institutional Environment (US$510,000). This
subcomponent would provide 35 man-months of specialists to (i) establish a
methodology for analyzing, monitoring, and evaluating the food marketing
sector (study to be completed by July 30, 1990), (ii) analyze the
distribution systems of selected products or product groups in order to
determine investment possibilities (study to be completed bv September 30,
1990), (iii) review the organizational structure and technical expertise of



- 25 -
FIDEC in order to improve it (a broader study to that effect has already
been started by Banco de Mexico and will lay the base for the FIDEC study
to be completed by December 31, 1990), and (iv) support the function within
FIDEC's management which will be in charge of the carrying out of the above
studies and will have permanent advisory role (this implies further short
studies, analysis and actions already identified during appraisal and whose
dates would be determined during the life of the project in close
consultation with the Bank).
75.      Special Studies (US$150,000).  During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that two special studies, under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, would be undertaken (Annex 7). The first study would assess
the feasibility of introducing an auction system in selected wholesale
markets and would be completed by December 31, 1990 (para 99(c)). The
results and the appropriate plans of action would be promptly reviewed with
the Bank. The second study would review regulatory issues that may create
barriers to entry and delay modernization of retail food distribution in
Mexico City (para 99(b)). Terms of reference for the second study would be
agreed with the Bank as a condition of effectiveness of the loan. This
study would be completed by March 31, 1991 (para 100(a)). The study would
include recommendations and action plan to overcome major regulatory issues
that might delay modernization of the retail food distribution, and would
be discussed with the Bank promptly after completion.
76.      Training (US$ 490,000). The training subcomponent would include 18
activities to train about 2000 participants from FIDEC, SECOFI, SARH,
commercial banks and the private sector. A detailed plan has already been
prepared and is included in the project working papers. Training contents
would help eliminate identified skill gaps related to: (i) food marketing
modernization; (ii) information on policy, norms and procedures; (iii)
information system procedures (modernization of computer filing system to
facilitate direct access of staff to statistics, evaluation results); and
(iv) the development of corporate finance capability and creditworthiness
analysis relative to project appraisal.
77.      Concerning FIDEC in particular, skill upgrading is required to
improve FIDEC's marketing expertise (for example wholesale or retail market
design, specialized transport, packaging, etc.) required to support food
marketing investments. Revised information system procedures will improve
FIDEC's monitoring and evaluation. They will allow the institution to
better identify the effect of investments on prices to producers and
consumers, or intermediary margins, and should indicate how constraints
identified in the food marketing system are being alleviated. Thus
promotional activities of FIDEC, which should be intensified, could be
better related to specific bottlenecks in the food marketing system
identified by the monitoring and evaluation unit. FIDEC has already
started to move in that direction: in early 1989 it commissioned a study on
the marketing of fish which showed significant potential for investment in
the sector. More recently, in response to the Government's deregulation of
transport, FIDEC has shifted more promotional resources to address the
expected surge in investment in this area by the private sector.
78.      Computer, Information and Telecopier Systems (US$250,000).  To
improve its technical assistance to commercial banks, and its
communications with its regional delegations, FIDEC will upgrade its



- 26 -
monitoring, evaluation and information systems through the acquisition of
computer, statistical and telecopier systems. This equipment is estimated
to cost US$250,000.
79.      Market Information (US$100,000).  The Servicio Nacional de
Informacion de Mercado (SNIM), responsible for the implementation of the
market information component, will be improved to: (i) increase product
coverage by including meat and fish, (ii) provide better dissemination of
information to all regions through press or newsletter coverage and through
radio, (iii) to provide information on daily volumes of each commodity
entering wholesale markets and (iv) increase its geographical coverage from
14 to 22 wholesale markets. As most of the equipment and training of
personnel will have been financed under the first Agricultural Marketing
project, only some additional computer equipment, estimated at US$100,000,
will be financed under the proposed Second Agricultural Marketing Project.
Project Implementation
80.      The credit and technical assistance component of the project would
be implemented by FIDEC in coordination with other public agencies such as
SECOFI, SNIM, SARH, and SHCP. The Director General of FIDEC would be
responsib.e for the implementation of the project. FIDEC would continue to
have two line departments below the Director: the Technical Department in
charge of programming, promotion, and subproject evaluation, and the
Administrative Department in charge of rediscount operations, accounting
and information systems. FIDEC's staff skills would be improved under the
institutional component of the proposed project (paras 74-77). FIDEC's
rules of operation have been recently modified and are considered adequate.
Loan proceeds would be committed over a four year period, shorter than the
5.5 years required under the first project when FIDEC required time to
establish itself. FIDEC would rediscount subloans approved by
participating financial intermediaries.
81.      Lending Procedures. The responsibility for evaluating project
proposals would be divided among the Technical Committee, the Internal
Committee and participating FIs. The Technical Committee is presided by
the Secretary of Finance (usually represented by the Director General of
the Development Banking System) and members include SECOFI, SPP, SARH,
Secretariat of Energy, Mines and Parastatal Industries (SEMIP), Secretaria
de la Controloria General de la Federacion (SECOGEF), Confederation of
National Chambers of Commerce (CONCANACO), Banco de Mexico, and the
Director General of FIDEC. This committee, whose approval is needed for
projects requiring rediscounts by FIDEC beyond $210,000, has been operating
adequately during the first Marketing Project, meeting once a month and
usually reviewing 6-7 projects per session. Rediscounts between US$30,000
and US$210,000 are currently approved by FIDEC's Internal Committee
(composed of the Director General of FIDEC, the Technical Director, the
Operations Director, the Project Appraisal Chief, the Chief of Operations,
the Legal Advisor and the Internal Auditor) while loans of less than
US$30,000 are evaluated and approved directly by participating FIs. With
these thresholds commercial banks have approved over 90 percent of the
loans financed by FIDEC during 1989. However, thresholds would be reviewed
and revised annually with a view to delegating more project evaluation
responsibility to commercial banks and give more time to the Technical
Committee to concentrate on the analysis of larger projects. To that end,
an upward revision would be proposed to FIDEC's Technical Committee



- 27 -
scheduled for December 15, 1989. FIDEC's appraisal manual was revised and
found satisfactory by the Bank. It would ensure that subloan proposals be
properly evaluated with respect to financial and technical viability of
subprojects and creditworthiness of borrower. The principal evaluation
criteria would be the financial rate of return, technical criteria, such as
increase in sales, broadening of product lines, reduction in margins,
adequacy of infrastructure and equipment, as well as vertical integration
effects, benefits to consumers and employment creation. Under the
institutional development component, FIs staff would be trained to improve
their creditworthiness analysis capability relative to project evaluation.
Subloans exceeding US$6.0 million would require the Bank's prior approval.
Two or three subloans of this size are expected every year, and over the
life of the project their accumulated total is expected to represent up to
25% of the total proposed credit component.
82.      Monitoring and Evaluation.  This function requires considerable
strengthening and the development of a data gathering and processing system
to evaluate impact of the investments. FIDEC's institutional development
function, to be attached to the Director's office, would be responsible for
monitoring and evaluating the project. Quarterly reports would be sent to
this office from the various implementing agencies in accordance with an
agreed timetable and outline set forth in annual work programs to be
reviewed by the Bank each year in October. Evaluation work would be carried
out annually and sent to the Bank no later than 60 days after the end of
each fiscal year. In the case of SNIM, monitoring and evaluation work
would be supported by a consultant for two weeks every six months. For the
other components, support would be given during the first year of project
implementation by the consultant attached to FIDEC's Director's office to
strengthen the institutional development function. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that FIDEC would develop an appropriate data
gathering and processing system to evaluate the impact of subprojects
(para 99(e)).
83.      Financial Intermediaries (FIs).  The FIs for the project would
generally be the same commercial banks that have participated with FIDEC in
the first project. Experience of the first Marketing Project shows that 21
banks participated in 1988 and that seven of them channelled more than 70%
of the funds: BANAMEX, SERFIN, BANPECO, MEXICANO SOMEX, INTERNACIONAL,
BANCOMER, and ATLANTICO. FIDEC entertains excellent business relationships
with the commercial banking system. Once subloans have been approved,
supervision would formally be the responsibility of the participating
banks. However, FIDEC would provide back-up technical assistance to
project beneficiaries if the need should arise. Moreover, FIDEC staff
would routinely visit a sample of subprojects to ensure that project funds
are used as intended.
84.      Lending Terms and Conditions.  The Borrower would be NAFIN who
would borrow the funds from the Bank which would disburse the proceeds
under the form of a basket of currencies. The loan would be repaid over 17
years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. The commitment fee would be paid by NAFIN. Subloans would be
denominated in Mexican pesos or U.S. dollars at the option of the sub-
borrower. For loans ir. pesos, the Borrower would make the funds available
to FIDEC in pesos at the one month CETES (Mexican Treasury Bills) rate,
which represents the marginal cost of funds to the Government, or at any
other reference rate mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;



- 28 -
FIDEC would repay principal and interest with the same terms and grace
periods as the Bank loan. The Government would take the foreign exchange
risk on the loan. The CETES rate, being a market based rate in an open
capital market, includes a foreign exchange risk component. For loans
denominated in U.S. dollars, the Borrower would make funds available to
FIDEC at the three-month LIBOR rate plus 0.5 percentage point. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that (a) FIDEC would on-lend the
funds to comuercial banks at a weighted average interest rate to provide
FIDEC a margin of at least 2.0 percentage points over FIDEC's weighted
average cost of funds (either peso-denominated or dollar-denominated
subloans (para 99(f))) and (b) that these banks would relend the funds to
sub-borrowers at rates established in the General Interest Rate Agreement
between Mexico and the Bank (peso subloans) and at a rate equal to LIBOR
plus 4.0 percentage points (dollar subloans) (para 99(g)). The funds for
SNIM (US$100,000) would be transferred from NAFIN by means of a budgetary
allocation of the government.
85.      In the event that the interest rates charged to commercial banks
would not be sufficiently above FIDEC's cost of funds and administrative
costs, this difference would be paid by the Government in periodic
payments. This is in accordance with the agreement between the Government
and the Bank to make credit subsidies and the costs of the development
banking system transparent. FIDEC's financial performance will be
carefully monitored under the project.
86.      Financing by Beneficiaries, Financial Intermediaries and FIDEC.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that beneficiary
contribution, financial intermediaries' participation, and subloan
rediscount as a percentage of investment project cost will be as follows:
at least 20 percent by beneficiary, at least 10 percent by FI, and a
balance of up to 70 percent may be rediscounted (para 99(h)). Recent
project approvals show a trend by FIDEC to reduce its rediscount levels to
50-60% of total project cost for a number of subprojects. This results in a
larger participation by FIs or sub-borrowers and allows FIDEC to invest
funds in a larger number of subprojects. This trend will be encouraged
under the project.
87.      Repayment Mechanism, Maturities and Grace Periods.  Sub-borrowers,
with the agreement of their respective commercial banks, would have the
option of choosing the traditional repayment schedule currently applied,
or, should a situation of high inflation and high nominal rates reappear,
the Sistema de Pagos Variables al Valor Presente (PVP) scheme which, by
capitalizing interest payments, reduces the cash drain on borrowers during
the earlier part of maturities and allows borrowers to undertake investment
projects when nominal interest rates are high. Subloans would be extended
in accordance with FIDEC's lending criteria as spelled out in its
operations and appraisal manuals. Financing requirements and grace and
repayment periods would be determined on a case-by-case basis. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the financing granted by FIDEC
will have the same repayment schedule as the subloan financed by the FI,
repayment of principal of subloans would range from over one year to ten
years and would include grace periods of one to two years. Incremental
working capital subloans would have matur4ties of at least three months and
not more than one year (para 99(i)). All subloans should be committed and
applications for withdrawals be made before December 31, 1994.



- 29 -
Prolect Cost and Financint
88.      Total project cost is estimated at US$177.6 million.  The project
would include (i) a general line of credit for the modernization of the
food marketing sector (US$176.1 million), and (ii) the financing of market
information services, special studies, technical assistance to retailers
and producers, and institutional development (US$1.5 million).
89.      The proposed Bank Loan of $100 million equivalent would amount to
56Z of the project cost. Foreign exchange costs would represent about 35Z
of total project costs. Some local cost financing is justified in view of
the pressing financial situation of the country. Financing from sub-
borrowers, financial intermediaries, FIDEC, and the Bank would amount to
20%, 10%, 14%, and 56% respectively. The following summarizes the
financing plan proposed:
US$ Million        Z
Sub-borrowers                                35.2           20
Financial Intermediaries                     17.6           10
FIDEC                                        24.8           14
Bank                                        100.0           56
TOTAL                                       177.6          100
90.      Retroactive financing of up to US$10.0 million would be permitted
in respect of expenditures incurred during the 12 months before the signing
of the loan (para 99(j)).
Procurement
91.      For civil works which represent a significant portion of this
project, the Bank will require procurement to be undertaken by means of
international competitive bidding (ICB) for contracts above US$10 million
and established commercial practices below this threshold. Bulk
procurement through international competitive bidding or other mechanisms
would not be appropriate as goods and services to be financed under the
credit line would be diverse and procured by large numbers of sub-borrowers
widely distributed geographically and few contracts are expected to exceed
US$1.0 million. An adequate selection of machinery and equipment is
available to sub-borrower& through local and international suppliers. For
purchases of goods and equipment of up to US$1.0 million procurement
methods would follow established commercial practices acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts for goods costing between US$1.0 million and US$5.0 million
would be procured through international shopping with price quotations from
at least three suppliers (including quotations from two countries outside
the Borrower) from eligible source countries as defined under the Bank
guidelines. Should any contract be above US$5.0 million, 't would be
subject to international competitive bidding (ICB), according to Bank
guidelines. Contracts for civil works costing up to US$10 million would
follow normal commercial practices acceptable to the Bank, civil work
contracts expected to cost over US$10 million would follow ICB procedures.
Contracts requiring ICB procedures would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. Consultants would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 30 -
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that FIDEC would follow the
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank (para 99(k)).
Disbursement
92.      Loan proceeds would be committed in about four years and disbursed
in about 5 years (Annex 6). The proposed disbursement is consistent with
the disbursement profile of the previous Bank-financed agricultural
marketing operaion in Mexico.  The first Marketing Project, criginally
expected to be disbursed in 4 years has actually been disbursed over
approximately 5.5 years. This is just slightly above the total commitment
time as the lag between commitments and disbursements in this operation has
usually been 2 months on asdrage throughout the project life.  Based on
that experience, 5 years appears reasonable for the proposed project. Bank
disbursements would be made against: (i) 80% of the amounts rediscounted by
FIDSC as long as rediscounts by FIDEC do not exceed 70% of each subproject
cost; (ii) 80% of the eligible local expenditures or 100% of the foreign
exchange for goods under the technical assistance component; and (iii) 100%
of expenditures in connection with consultant services. To facilitate
disbursement, a Special Account would be established by NAFIN on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank with an initial deposit from Bank funds
of US$10.0 million. Bank disbursements to replenish the Special Account
would be made on the basis of statemeuts of expenditure submitted to the
Bank through NAFIN. All relevant documentation would be made available for
inspection by the Bank during the course of project supervision. The
project would be completed by December 31, 1994. The closing date of the
loan would be June 30, 1995. Subloans would be eligible for financing from
the loan if expenditures were made not earlier than 180 days prior to the
date on which the Bank received the application to approve the subloan, or
the information to be furnished to the Bank in connection with a free-limit
subloan, whichever is the case.
Accounting and Audits
93.      The Bank of Mexico in its capacity as trustee for FIDEC, will
maintain in FIDEC's books a separate project account and keep detailed
records deemed necessary to reflect the financial transactions with respect
to the project. Financial statements of FIDEC, project accounts, the
Special Account, and all statements of expenditure used to claim Bank loan
reimbursements would be audited annually by independent and qualified
auditors appointed by the Secretaria de la Controloria General de la
Federacion (SECOGEF). Not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year, FIDEC would submit to the Bank certified copies of audit
reports containing balance sheets, income statements and auditor's opinin.as
of financial statements, as well as separate opinions on: (i) project
accounts, (ii) statements of expenditures, and (iii) the Special Account.
Under the first project, FIDEC has been current in submitting these
reports. In addition to the external audit requirement, the Bank of
Mexico's internal audit department would continue to carry out periodic
reviews of FIDEC's financial activities and accounts.
Management Information System
94.      Annual progress reports summarizing project performance, subloan
disbursements by categories (beneficiaries, principal activities, and
subloan size), rediscount by FIDEC, and arrears experienced by commercial



- 3' -
banks, would be submitted to the Bank by FIDEC no later than 60 days after
the end of each fis:al year.  In addition to the above reports, FIDEC would
send annually to the Bank a summary statement of changes in its own
staffing on an overall and regional basis, and an evaluation of the
technical assistance and training supported under the project.  Within 6
months of the closing date of the Bank loan, FIDEC would submit a Project
Completion Report, prepared in accordance with Bank guidelines. Assurances
on the above points would be obtained at negotiations.
Financial Analysis of Investment Models
95.      To analyze the viability of potential investments and
technological improvements and their financial attractiveness to producers,
wholesalers and retailers of food products, ten illustrative investment
plans have been modeled and are presented in Annex 4. Financial internal
rates of return range between 17% and 44% which shows that the proposed
investments are financially attractive. These projections are considered
reasonable as financial internal rates of return under the first loan for
similar ki.ds of subprojects have generally ranged between 45% and 67%, as
shown by the Project Completion Report of the first project.
Proiect Risk
96.      The principal project risk would be a possible contraction of
credit demand due to currently high real interest rates; although these
rates are still quite high, they decreased by over 20 percentage points
during the last few months after a tentative agreement was reached on
Mexico's external debt reduction. In addition, the external debt reduction
agreement, expected soon between Mexico and its commercial creditors, wculd
have a beneficial impact on Mexico's fiscal situation and renew Mexico's
confidence in its future economic stability. This, in turn, is expected to
bring about further decreases in real interest rate and a gradual
restoration of growth. Moreover, the Government's commitment to open up
the economy through structural adjustments in the agricultural, industrial,
and financial sectors mitigates the possible risk of contraction of demar.d
as these adjustments are already inducing substantial private sector
investment.
Environmental Effects
97.      The project would have a beneficial impact on the environment by
modernizing processing, storage and handling of food products. The project
would also upgrade the design of wholesale and retail outlets. This would
reduce congestion, facilitate traffic flow, and improve hygienic conditions
throughout the marketing chain.
98.      Sub-borrowers would be required to comply with local sanitary
regulations related to treatment of food products during processing,
storage, and transit. The Government would ensure an adequate control and
enforcement of these regulations.



- 32 _
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED
99.      During negotiations, agreements were reached upon the following
points:
(a) An institutional adviser, reporting directly to the Director
General of FIDEC with adequate qualifications and experience, will
be maintained by BANXICO, as trustee for FIDEC (para 60);
(b) FIDEC would carry out a study to review the regulatory aspects
affecting the foad retail sector in Mexico City by March 31, 1991
(para 75);
(c) FIDEC, would carry out a study on the feasibility of introducing
an auction system in selected wholesale markets by December 31,
1990 (para 75);
(d) FIDEC would be the sole implementing agency for the credit
component of the proposed project (para 80);
(e) FIDEC's monitoring and evaluation function would be strengthened
and an appropriate data gathering and processing system to
evaluate the impact of subproje,ts would be developed (para 82);
(f) interest rates would be set up in such a way that they would
provide FIDEC with a margin of at least 2.0 percentage points over
FIDEC's cost of funds (para 84);
(g) interest rates to final beneficiaries will be in accordance with
GIRA (peso denominated subloans) and LIBOR plus 4.0 percentage
points (dollar subloans) (para 84);
(h) Subprojects would be financed as follows: at least 20 percent by
beneficiary, at least 10 percent by FI, and a balance of up to 70
percent may be rediscounted by FIDEC (para 86);
(i)  The financing granted by FIDEC would have the same repayment
schedule as the subloan financed. Repayments of principal of
subloans would range from over one year to ten years and would
include grace periods of one to two years. Incremental working
capital subloans would have maturities of at least three months
and not more than one year (para 87);
(j) Retroactive financing of up to US$10.0 million would be permitted
with respect to expenditures incurred during the 12 months before
the signing of the loan (para 90); and
(k) FIDEC would follow the procurement procedures acceptable to the
Bank (paras 91, 92).



- 33 -
100..    Conditions for the loan to be effective are the following:
(a)  terms of reference for a study to review the regulatory aspects
that may limit freedom of entry in the food retail sector in
Mexico City would have been agreed with the Bank (para 75); and
(b)  the contractual arrangements among the Bank, NAFIN, Bank of
Mexico, FIDEC and SNIM concerning the flow of the loan funds would
have been entered into (para 93).
101.     With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million for
Mexico, repayable in 17 years including 5 years of grace.
November 14, 1989



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING 'RCJECT
FIDEC'S OPERATIONS
Financial Structure and Results
1.       The Trust Fund for Marketing Development (FIDEC) is authorized to
raise funds from the Federal Government, by recupsrations and earnings on
its investments, and from resources raised by the Bank of Mexico, either
nationally or internationally. FIDEC's share capital had increased to
Mex$71,866 million by the end of 1988, of which 89% correspond to
contributions coming from World Bank disbursements under Loan 2262-MiE and
the balance of direct contributions from the Government. In addition, at
the end of 1988, FIDEC had retained earnings of Mex$167,369 million
resulting from net income from operations. FIDEC's financial position is
strong. With a net worth to total assets ratio of 0.99 (Annex 2, Table 2),
all of its financial resources come from equity capital and retained
earnings and none from commercial bank loans. Seventy-nine percent of its
assets consist in rediscount of commercial bank loans, 12% of investments
in short-term Government securities, 9% in deposits in the Treasury and a
very small balance consists of fixed and other assets. FIDEC's
profitability has been strong because (i) interest races hav,e been set
between ACF and commercial rates providing the trust fund with a
satisfactory spread (Annex 2, Table 1) and (ii) the debt service of the
2262-ME loan was assumed by the Government as has been the case for all
other trust funds of the Bank of Mexico executing Bank projects. Net
income amounted to Mex$92,626 million (US$36.1 million) in 1988.
2.       From the start of its operations, FIDEC has left the full credit
risk to commercial banks, thus ensuring FIDEC's financial soundness.
Through its technical support, FIDEC has helped commercial banks undertake
serious subproject appraisal. This strategy has proved successful as
arrears have not exceeded 3%.
Operation Policies and Procedures
3.       The policies and procedures which govern FIDEC's operations are
set forth in its General Rules of Operation and its Appraisal Manual, which
are modified from time to time by the Technical Committee. FIDEC is
authorized to channel funds for its specified ends either by rediscount to
private or public banks. It undertakes 3 main programs: (i) food,
(ii) non-food, and (iii) free border zones (franjas fronterizas).
4.       FIDEC participates in a variety of investment ranging from short-
term working capital to long-term financing of marketing infrastructure.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
5.       FIDEC rediscounts up to 70% of the sub-project cost.  Subborrowers
contribute 20% of project costs, and commercial banks at least 10%.
6.       FIDEC's interest rate policy, similar to other trust funds of the
Bilk of Mexico, provides for rates linked, up to September 1989, to an
index of the cost of funds (ACF) uwithin the banking system in the country.
The ACF index, published monthly by the Bank of Mexico, is a weighted
average of interest rates paid by banks and other financing institutions on
bonds and certificates of deposits, excluding checking and savings
accounts. In September 1989, FIDEC, like some other trust funds such as
FIRA, shifted its benchmark for interest rates to the CETES (one-month
Treasury Bills). In October 1989, the CPP was at 35.2% p.a. and the CETES
at 37.8%.
7.       Intermediary banks are currently allowed a spread of up to 3% on
funds from FIDEC. At subloan approval, a base rate of interest is
established, expressed as so many points above ACF. Rates are variable as
the CETES changes with each new iesue of Treasury Bills.
Lending Operations
8.       FIDEC began lending operations in January 1981, and, by December
1988 it had a portfolio of Mex$189,993 million, all for private sector
subprojects throughout the country. The portfolio of rediscounted loans
for fixed assets investments and working capital currently represents 30%
&nd 70% respectively of total lending. The higher proportion of short-term
loans results from several factors.  First, since 1987, FIDEC has started a
new Free Borders Zones program (Franjas Fronterizas), consisting of
promoting modernization of distribution in border areas such as Baja
California, Sonora and Quintana Roo. While this program, which includes
both food and non-food products, may finance long-term investments such as
the creation or modernization of wnolesale markets or self-service stores,
most of the rediscounting has been for short-term working capital for non-
food products (such as books, electrical equipment and household articles)
which represented 61% of FIDEC's total rediscounting in 1988. Second, even
under the food program, FIDEC has supported the financing of working
capital given that the widening of product lines and the increase in volume
of operations to reduce costs is considered as important as fixed-asset
investment in the modernization process. Third, the high nominal interest
rates oi recent years tended to result in higher demand for short-term
credit.
9.       In October 1989, subloan term and size limits ranged from 3 months
to 5 years, with maximum individual subloans ranging up to about US$5
million (up to 5% of total assets). In fact, given the relatively small
size of investment proposals received, largest loans authorized did not
actually exceed US$3.0 million (usually for wholesale markets or retail
supermarkets).



ANNEX 2
Page  of a
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Tab!* 1: FIDEC - Audited Historical lncone Statements
(Mexi Million)
Fiscal Year Ending December 81         1984       1986      1988      1987      1988
Interest Earned                        136B      8a69       16497     88389     101280
Other Income                              2         4           6        18         43
Total Revenue                          13685     863        16603     68402     101323
Ope.rating Expenses
Salaries and Wages                      101        191       818       1011       2018
Commissions and Fes                      17        81         79        228        899
Other Administrative Expenses            19        64        283        1e8       1440
Interest Paid                             1          1        -       11848       4789
Depreciation and Amortization             1          2        16         26         61
Total Operating Expenses                189        809       691      18370       8697
Net Income                             1216      2764       14812     54672       92626
RATIOS
Net Income/Total Assots                0.17      0.21       0.40       0.46        0.39



- 87 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICUTLURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table 2: FIDEC - Audited Historical Balance Sheets
(Mexi Million)
As of December 31                      1984       1986      1986      1987         1988
ASSETS
Investment in Government Securities    4482       2683      15807     30748         27587
Accrued Interest from Banco de Mexico   198        164       l16s      2629           787
Deposit In Treasury                      -          -          -         -          20876
Short Term Loans Rediscounted          1364       7465      12869    6e8ss         149561
Other Loans and Assets                    1        140         89       153           822
Subtotal                             6035      10342      29370     99715        199133
Long-Term Loans Rediscounted           1242      2514        6662     16442         40482
Fixed Deposits In Tesoria
de is Federaclon                         -          -        1162      1282           170
Fixed Assets (net)                        7         51         78       228           1S5
Subtotal                             1249       2585       7897     17952         40752
TOTAL ASSETS                           7284       12907    87287      117867       239885
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Short-Term Debt                           a          -        -        5952          -
Provisions                               16         27         64       238          469
Subtotal                              22        27          64      6196          469
Reserves for Pension                      -         -          10        83          191
Share Capital                          4757       7828      17128     88671        71866
Retained Earnings                      2505      5257       20070     74743       167369
Subtotal                            7262     12880       87193    111477       239426
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL          7284       12907    37267      117667      239885
RATIOS
Generating Asseits/Total Assets        0.97      0.97       0.98      0.97           -
Accounting Leverages                    -          -         -        0.06           -
Tolorance to Lonees*/                   1.0       1.0       1.0       0.95          1.0
I/ bank debt tO accounting net worth
V net worth to total assets



- 80 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of a
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Tabl, 8: FIDEC - Audited Historical Fund. Flow Statements
(Mox8 Million)
Fiscal Yo-r Ending December 81       1984      1985       1986      1987      1988
FUNDS RECEIVED
Funds Roeeived from Operations
Not Income                           1216      2764       14812     54672     92626
Depreciation and Amortization           1         2          16        26        61
Provisions                              8         4          87       174       221
Increase in Reserve for Pensions        -         -          10        53       128
Cash Genoration from Operations    1225      276e       14876     64926     98026
Funds Received fo om Other Sources
Interest from Bank of Mexico           -          -           -        -       1842
Short Term Loan                         -          -          ^      6962        -
Government's Contribution to Equity  1887      2866        9601     19548     85195
Total Funds from Other Sourcoe     1887      2886        9501     25600     87087
TOTAL FUNDS RECEIVED                 3112      5626       24876     80426     18006
FUNDS APPLIED
Repayment of Long Term Debt             6         -          -         -         -
Fixed and Other Assets                  6        47         41       181        142
Deposit In Tesori; de la Federacion     -      1000          -       120      19594
Recovablos                           110       105       los1      1578        170
Increase In Loan Rediscounts          792      7378      9662      68106     107866
Increase/(Docr*ase) In Cash and
Govornment Securities              2199      (2899)    18724     15441       2791
TOTAL FUNDS APPLIED                  8112      5626       24876    80426     180068



- 39 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
FIDEC
PROJECTED INCONE STATEMENTS
(Nex S Nillion)
(Actual) ---------------------------- Projected ------- --------…-----------
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996
Net Interest Earned                               96491      3957     5031      6064     6819      7520     8291      9017     9557
Other Incose                                          43       10        10       10        10       10        10       10       10
Total ket Revenue (1)                           96534      3967     5041      6074     6829      7530     8301      9027     9567
Operating Expenses
Commitment Fee                                         0        0     2097      1691      1362     1017      654         0         0
Commissions                                         399       400       400      400       400      400       400      400      400
Depreciation and Amortization                         51       55        93      142       193      192       193      192       165
Provisions                                          260       270      280       290       290      290       290      290      290
Salaries and Wages                                 1950      2009     2069      2131     2195      2261     2328      2398     2470
Other Administrative Expenses                       1249     1004     1034      1045      1097     1130      1164     1199      1235
Total Operating Expenses                          3908      3738     3876      4028     4175      4273     4375      4479     4560
NET INCOME                                        92626       230     1165      2046     2655      3258     3925      4547     5007
(1) The net rev,nue is high in 1998 because FIDEC received its funds as transfers,
therefore at no cost. Projections as from 1989 assume a net interest incose
equal to: interest charged to final borroNers less FIDEC's borroving costs
at CETES, less a 3 percentage point spread for commercial banks



- 40 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
REX ICO
SECOND AMRICULTURAL MARKETIN6 PROJECT
FIDEC
PROJECTED FUNDS FLOI STATEHENTS
(Hex s Nlillion)
Fiscal Year Ending Deceaber 31                              1969     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994     199S      1996
FUNDS PROVIDED
Funds Provided by Operations
Met Income                                                   230     1165      2046     2655      3258     3925     4547      5007
Depreciation                                                  55        93      142      193       192      193      192       165
Provisions                                                   270      280       290      290       290      290      290       290
Total Funds Provided
by Operations                                              555     1538      2478     3138     3740      4408     5029      5462
Loan Repayments                                             8086    19286    31286    46296    64286    79000    94200   109800
IDRD Disbursummnts (2262-IE)                               37500        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
IBRD Disburseuents (Nov Loan)                                  0    65725    42750    44900    47125    49500          0         0
New Borrowings (Local Narket)                                  0        0         0        0         0        0    66000    50000
TOTAL FUNDS PROVIDED                                       46141    96549    76514    94324   115151   132908   165229   165262
23=u38   88888   *55:5-   832582   228888   3=8:   8388    38*288
FUNDS APPLIED
Disbursesents                                              56000    60000    75000    90000   114000   132000   139000   138000
Fixed Assets                                                 300      400       400      400       500      600      600       600
Repayment I8RD Loan                                            0         0        0        0         0        0    260      26042
Change in Working Capital (2)                             -10159    26149      1114     3924      651       308      588       620
TOTAL FUNDS APPLIED                                      46141    86549    76514    94324   115151   132908   165229   165262
(1) The change in vorking capital is highly negative in 1989 because
it is assumed that FIDEC disburses a significant portion of its
own liquid funds currently invested in Governsent bonds



- 41 -
Annex 3
EIEt'CO                                         Page  3  of  5
SECOII MACULTURML   lTETI1  PllWECT
FIKC
PROJECTE 1ALUICE MSNEET
(Mez ) Mililiyn
Fiscal Year Deember 31                               1989      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993     194       1995      1996
ASSETS                                           (Aktual) ------------------------------ ProjeKt -d
Current Assuts
Government  onds                                    49250    28E52    44601    25915    24839    25490    257W8    2638            27006
Short-Tere Leons                                   149561   160000   170000   190000   195000   195000   195000   195000   195000
Other                                                 492       492       492       492       #92      402       492       492       492
Total Current Ahuts                              199303   199144   215293   216407   220331   220992   221290   22167    22249
Fixed Asuts
Gross Fiied Assets                                    220       520       920      1320      1720      2220     2820      3420      4020
Acci.aaed Depreciatimt                                  10      125       215       360       553       745       938     1130      12"
Not Filed Asuts                                     150       395       702       960      1161      1475     1662      2290      2725
Long Tere Loans                                     40432    NM34      129059   172M       216496   246200   319200   363M00    3912W
TOTAL ASSETS                                       239895   27785   345054   390140   437995   488657   542312  537168   616423
=______ _~~~~~~~*XMs   ,t,23                              "am   -.U          statu      X.....  cuts".. ....,sas- _
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Maturities of LTD                               0         0         0         0         0         0    26042    26042    26042
Long Tere Debt
Gross Long Term Debt INPD                                0        0    63725   108475   153375   200500   250000   223958   197917
Less:Current Maturitin                                   0        0         0         0         0         0    26042    26042    26042
Net Long Tero Dbbt IIDO                               0         0    65725   108475   153375   200500   223958   197917   171913
Long-Tere Debt ILocal  arket)                            0        0         0         0         0         0         0    66000   116000
Renerv    for Pensi.                                  650       920      1200      149       1790      2070      2360     2650      2940
Equity
Share Captal                                        7186    10936    10936    109366   109366   109366   109366   109366   109346
Retained Earnings                                  167369   167539    168763   170809   173464   176721   100646   195194   190200
Total Equity                                      239235   276965   279129   290175   282830   286087   290012   2945            299566
TOTAL LIAO. AND EQUITY                             239895   277885   345054   390140   437905   498657   342372   587168   616423
an3    usts        ....n        Sn  s XXs    Inns2           asa   as-  u     2s  
RATIOS
Equity to Total Assets   2                           1.00      1.00      0.81      0.72      0.65      0.59      0.53     0.50      0.49
Long-Tere DebtiLTDEqoity                             0.00      0.00      0.19      0.28      0.35      0.41     0.44      0.47      0.49
Portfolio Analysis
Long-Tere Loans IT)                                  0.21      0.36      0.43      0.48      0.53     0.58      0.62      0.65      0.67
Short-Tere Loans (1)                                 0.79      0.64      0.57      0.52      0.47      0.42     0.36      0.35      0.33



- 42 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
Assumptions Underlyina Financial Proiections
1.       Projections are in constant terms (an exchange rate of US$1=2500
pesos is assumed).
2.       The proposed IBRD loan would have 5 years grace followed by 12
years repayment starting in 1995. It would carry an interest rate of 7.75Z
p.a. There would be a commitment fee of 0.75X p.a. on the undisbursed part
of the loan.
3.       FIDEC would borrow the equivalent of US$26 million and US$20
million on the Mexican financial market in 1995 and 1996 respectively, each
loan having 2 years grace followed by 6 years repayment. As projections
are made on the basis of net interest income, borrowing interest rates are
not specified. Funds would be on-lent to commercial banks and final
borrowers on a cost-plus basis.
4.       FIDEC would increase its annual disbursements of long-term loans
from Mex$56,000 million in 1989 to Mex$138,000 million in 1996. It would
slightly increase its disbursements of short-term loans (assumed to be
repaid during the same year) from Mex$160,000 million in 1989 to
Mex$195,000 million in 1996.
5.       Long-term loans rediscounted by FIDEC are assumed to be repaid, on
average, over 5 years. A net margin of 1.5 percentage points on long-term
loans and 2 percentage points on short-term loans is assumed. Net margin
is defined as interest charged to final borrowers, less FIDEC's borrowing
cost less a spread of three points to commercial banks.
6.       Whereas under the first loan, FIDEC received funds from the
Government as transfers, under the proposed second project, FIDEC is
assumed to service the IBRD loan (i.e. providing funds to the Treasury for
IBRD debt service).
7.       Interest on IBRD loan and local borrowing does not appear in
financial projections which are made on a net interest basis (para 5).
Main Conclusions
8.       FIDEC would start the implementation of the second project with a
strong financial position: 1002 equity and no long-term debt; therefore it
would be in a good position to assume the IBRD loan. In 1996, even after
borrowing an additional US$46 million equivalent from the local market,
FIDEC's long-term debt to equity ratio would still be 1:1.
9.       A net average margin of about 1.75 points is necessary for FIDEC
to obtain a small return on equity which would increase from about 0.5% in
1990 to about 1.7% in 1996. This means that, if FIDEC gives a spread of 3
percentage points to commercial average interest rates to final borrowers
should be set a least at ACF + 4.75.



- 43 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
10.      However, to maintain its level of long-term disbursements at
Mex$160,000 million p.a. FIDEC would need to borrow funds from the local
financial market in 1995 and 1996 as repayments from outstanding loans
would not be a sufficient source of funds.
11.      FIDEC would increase its long-term loans from 36% of its portfolio
in 1989 to 67Z in 1996, reducing its short-term lending accordingly.



- 44 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
ILLUSTRATIVE INVESTMENT PLANS
Introduction
1.       Under the project, medium and long-term credit would finance
inves.mients to improve marketing operations at the agroindustry, wholesale,
and retail levels and make them more efficient. Subprojects would focus on
those investments that incorporate improved technology and management,
entrepreneurial innovations, economies of scale, and improved marketing
operations. Several investment prototypes, discussed below, have been
prepared based on current experience in Mexico. These prototypes
illustrate the technical and financial viability of investments at
different levels within the marketing system.
2.       Costs and benefits are based on actual market prices, and the
modelling assumes no real price increases. Under these assumptions,
financial rates of return range from 17% to 44%, which shows that the
proposed investments are financially viable.
Financial Models
3.       Brief descriptions of the 10 models and results of financial
analysis are presented below.
Apple Collection, Packaxink. and Cold Storage Center
4.       Such a facility, located in an apple-producing state, would
collect, transport, grade, package, cold store, and sell apples produced on
2000 ha by 90 producers. Existing facilities are insufficient, and the
project consists in installing an additional 6000 tons of refrigeration
capacity to accommodate projected increase in apple production. The
controlled atmosphere refrigeration process reduces oxygen, increases
relative humidity, and lowers temperature to slow down the ripening
process. This allows the fruit to be conserved for nine months compared to
six in the traditional cold storage system. During these additional three
months (April to June), producers can take advantage of price increases of
up to 33 percent.
5.       The total investment cost would be US$1.4 million including
US$760,000 for construction of 8 refrigerating rooms, US$360,000 for
refrigeration equipment, and US$80,000 for electrical and laboratory
equipment. The investment is financially attractive with an FRR of 27%
because the facility would provide not only refrigeration, but other
services such as grading, sorting, and packaging which provide additional
value-added to the fruit.



- 45 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 15
Hydrothermic Treatment of Mangoes for Export
6.       Mangoes produced by Mexico and exported to the U.S used to be
treated with ethylene dibromide to eliminate fruit fly larvae. Because of
its possible toxicity, the chemical treatment was bannied by the USDA in
1988. Research for new methods of treatment has shown that passing mangoes
through a water bath at 115 degrees Fahrenheit during 90 minutes would
eliminate larvae.
7.       The model represents a 12 ha plantation in Southern Mexico
producing 125 tons of Hayden mangoes annually. Mangoes are harvested and
exported in April, May and June through three brokers.
8.       The project would consist in installing hydrothermic equipment
(US$270,000) and adapting the existing packing plant (US$45,000). The
equipment would have a capacity of 10 tons per day. Although higher than
the requirements of this plantation, this is the smallest equipment
capacity available, and the investcr would use it to treat mangoes of other
producers of the region.
9.       The project would also benefit domestic consumers as producers
investing in hot water treatment equipment for export are now required to
thermally treat at least 20Z of the fruit they sell on the domestic market.
The project shows a FRR of 29Z, which ±s conservative as the salvage value
of the equipment is not included in the calculation.
Regional Fruits and Vegetables Collection Center
10.      This fruit and vegetable collection center would belong to a
farmer cooperative. The center would collect about 9,000 tons per annum
(tpa) of products such as melon, watermelon, and mango. Tho main advantage
of this center would be its capacity utilization resulting from the
collection of various products harvested and collected at different times
of the year. Chile, with 6,200 tpa, would represent 67Z of total products
collected, followed by 2,000 tpa of melon, 200 tpa of watermelon, and 30
tons of mango.
11.      The project consists in receiving, inspecting, washing, treating
and selecting the products, which would then be put in "humifresh"
refrigeration units to reach optimum temperatures for consevation.  The
project would involve an investment in two "pre-refrigeratiLi." rooms, one
to conserve chile at temperatures of 1-30C and the other to conserve melon,
watermelon and mango at temperatures of 10-140C, The estimated total
investment cost would be US$690,000 of which US$440,000 for civil works,
US$131,000 for refrigeration equipment and US$125,000 for grading
equipment. The FRR is estimated at 172.
Wholesale Market for Fruits, Vegetables and Dry Goods
12.      Even today in Mexico, in some large cities most of the wholesalers
are still located in the downtown area and their activities have developed
in a haphazard way resulting in inadequate facilities, difficult access by
trucks, trarfic congestion, and lack of hygiene.



- 46 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 15
13.      This project would be located in a city of 700,000 inhabitants
where wholesalers would manipulate 4 million tpa of fruits and vegetables
and about 19 million tpa of dry goods (grains, canned products etc.). The
construction of a wholesale market in the city's suburbs would result in
more efficient trading as traffic congestion would be avoided. Additional
warehouse space would allow existing wholesalers to increase their volume
of operations and become more efficient, would give the opportunity to some
producers to have their own Ptalls in the wholesale mtarket thus reducing
the number of intermediaries, and would improve hygienic conditions in the
city through better organized cleaning and disposal of waste which itself
should be reduced given the improved logistics.
14.      The project would involve the construction of 173 stalls totalling
23,000 m2, and common areas, truck weigh bridges and parking spaces
total'-ing 45,000 M2.  There would also be a reserved area of 42,000 M2 for
future expansion. The investment would cost uS$4,459,000, including
US$4,065,000 for construction, and US$394,000 for equipment. Prolected
annual sales are estimated to be 15% hlgher than current sales by
wholesalers based in the center of town. Eight hundred new jobs would be
created. FRR is estimated at 34%.
Supermarket Constructed by a Regional Chain
15.      This supermarket would be constructed in a city of about 600,000
inhabitants in Southern Mexico. Food retailing in this city has already
been significantly improved given that 8 supermarkets totalling a floor
space of 23,000 M2 already operate there. Yet, it is estimated that 50% of
food products continue to be sold through small and rel%tively inefficient
stores whose small volume of operations does not allow them to provide a
full selection of products at competitive prices to consumers.
16.      The project would consist in the construction by a regional chain
of a 2,500 m2 floor space supermarket in addition to which there vould be
1,300 M2 of warehouse, 900 m2 of offices and service areas. The
supermarket would be the anchor store in a commercial center and would
share 12,000 m2 of parking space with the other stores. The investment
cost is estimated at US$1,287,000, of which US$730,000 for construction,
US$394,000 for equipment and US$163,000 for working capital. Its segmented
market would represent 90,000 inhabitants of the city. The project would
create 160 new jobs. The FRR is estimated at 302.
Self-Service Retail Outlet Operating Within a Voluntary Chain
17.      This voluntary chain operates in a northern city of Mexico and
consists of a wholesaler to which are affiliated 200 small retailers. The
wholesaler purchases products on behalf of retailers from 200 regular
suppliers with whom it negotiates advantageous prices because of the high
volume of operation. It has a computerized inventory control and its own
transport fleet. The chain promotes its commercial iuage through logos
used on the front of retail stores and bags given to clients, and
undertakes group advertising. In addition, it organizes a special sale
through,ut the chain each weekend, and the wholesaler provides training to
affiliate stores in product lay-out, merchandizing, and accounting.



- 47 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 15
18.      The project would consist in the creation of a retail store of
150 m2 floor space, 50 m2 of warehouse, and 50 m2 of parking space. The
project cost is estimated at US$110,000, including US$8,000 for land,
US$52,000 for the building and US$50,000 for equipment and working capital.
As a result of the backup from the wholesaler, the store is projected to
increase its sales to about US$260 per square meter per mont;., at least 50Z
more than independent stores of the same size. The FRR is estimated at
30%.
Retail Market in Large City
19.      This retail market would be located in a large city of about 4
million population and would cater to the needs of a particular zone of the
city with a population estimated at 375,000. Retail trade has been growing
along with the creation of new industries and the resulting urbanization.
However, there is a lack of stores in this part of the city and existing
stores are scattered, resulting in inefficiencies as clients spend much
time in moving from fruit and vegetable vendors, to dry goods stores to
meat stores to complete their day's shopping. The construction of a retail
market would provide retailers with modern infrastructure and by grouping
74 retailers of food as well as other products in the same area it would
make shopping more efficient for clients who 'ould save time and transport,
have better parking and would benefit from a wider variety of products.
Stores would also benefit from better prices from wholesalers who would
have easier access to several retailers in the same location, thus saving
on transport costs. The synergy effect and the competition between stores
in the same location would also allow larger volumes to be traded and
provide better prices to consumers.
20.      This retail market would include 74 stores totalling 765 m2 of
floor space, a small refrigerated storage of 30 m2, common areas of 405 m2,
service areas of 150 m2, offices and parking totalling 200 M2. The total
project cost would be US$ 190,000. The F&R is estimated at 212.
Modernization of a Medium Supermarket
21.      This project would consist of modernizing a 1,600 sq.ms.
floorspace supermarket through the introduction of display shelves,
shopping carts, refrigerated gondolas, air conditioning, cash registers,
scales, labelling equipment and purchase of a small truck for the transport
of perishables. This store would be part of & 3-store local chain in a
leveloping resort area on the Pacific coast. The project's area of
influence would consist of three local neighborhoods with a total of 9,000
families whose average income would be 2.5 times the minimum salary. Thus
the project would benefit 45,000 consumers currently lacking adequate food
supply at competitive prices and would generate 140 jobs. Considering
projected expenses in food and other basic products the store would have a
market potential of US$1.5 million per month. The closest competition
would be located 6 km away and would come from three national chains.
22.      The project would cost US$410,000 and would have an estimated FRR
of 42%.



- 48 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 15
Refrigerated Warehouse for Meat
23.      This refrigerated warehouse would be located in the northeaster.
suburbs of Mexico City where about 502 of the meat consumed annually by the
Federal District enters the metropolitan area for distribution by
wholesalers. Although there are already four refrigerated warehouses in
this area their capacity is insufficient to cope with the volume of meat
currently commercialized.
24.      The warehouse would have a total area of 1,500 sq.ms. of which 805
sq.ms. would be occupied by refrigerated rooms, 437 sq.ms. by loading
platforms and scales, and 258 sq.ms. would be used for paiking. Offices
valued at an estimated US$150,000 have nlready been constructed by the
sponsor, thus reducing the investment cost for this project. The total
cost is estimated at US$920,000, of which US$700,000 would be for civil
works and US$220,000 for equipment. The project would have an estimated
financial rate of return of 222.
Modernization of Cheese Processing Plant
25.      The company is an association of over 700 low and medium income
agroproducers of milk in Northern Mexico. The project would consist of
investing in cheese processing equtipment (cheese vats, press, refrigerated
storage and scales) and adjoining store for sales to wholesalers and
retailers. The manufacture of cheese consists of: receptio. of pasteurized
milk, addition of curd, salt, draining of the whey, grinding, wrapping with
cotton cloth, molding, pressing, refrigerating, paraffin, and labelling.
The company would process 39.3 million of liters of milk p.a. producing
J4.2 millions of pasturized milk and 422 tons of cheese. The total project
cost would be US$102,000.
26.      Although margins are small, the project is expected to have a high
financial IRR of 442 because of the large voltme of operations compared to
a low investment cost, which is the nature of modernization and expansion
projects.



- 49 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table lt (A) CONSTRUCTION OF A 6000 TONS REFRIGERATED
WAREHOUSE FOR APPLES
Financial Analysis
(US Dollars)
Year 1      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4    Year 5
INFLOWS
Income                        17541       16138       21020      '8170     22976
OUTFLOWS
Fruit Cost                     7409        5913        8139       6644       8670
Operating Cost                 8816        8111       10584       9403      11547
Administrative Cost             364         328         418        386        457
Other Costs                    1274        1274        1061       1061       1061
Investment                     1411
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING              -1733         512         818        676       1241
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan          702
Disbursement                    993
Repayment Principal               0         248         248        248       248
End of Year                     993         745         497        248          0
Interest                102      50          87          62         37         12
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                -790          177        508        391        980
INTERNAL RATE OR RETURN
Before Financing        272
After Financing         402
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                -790          177        508        391        980
Producer Contribution           418
Cash Flow                      -372         177         508        391       980
Accumulated Cash Flow          -372        -195         313        703       1684
Producer Contribution Needed   790



- 50 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table 2: (B) HYDROTHERMIC TREATMENT OF MANGO FOR EXPORT
?inancial Analysis
Year 1      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
INFLOWS
Income.                         172500      172500      172500     172500      172500
OUTFLOWS
Operating Cost                    9478        9478        9478       9478        9478
Exporting Cost                   64130       64130       64130      64310       64130
Investment                      315257
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING               -216365       98892       98892      98892       98892
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan           20%
Disbursement                     68506
Repayment Principal              11600       27000       27000       2906
End of Year                      56906       29906        2906          0
Interest                 10%      6271        4341        1641        145
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                -165730       67551       70251      95841       98892
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Before Financing         29%
After Financing          32%
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                -165730       67551       /0251      95841       98892
Producer Contribution           217391
Cash Flow                        51661       67551       70251      95841       98892
Accumulated Cash Flow            51661       119213     189464     285305      384197
Producer Contribution Needed   165730



- 51 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table 3: (C) FRUITS AND VEGETABLES COLLECTION CENTER
Financial Analysis
(US Dollars)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
INFLOWS
Income                             0         373        373         373        373
OUTFLOWS
Operating Cost                    78          78         78          78         78
Administrative Cost                9           9          9           9           9
Working Capital                    8            1
Investment                      696
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING                -791         285        286         286        286
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan          80%
Disbursement                     559
Repayment Principal                0         145        138         138        138
End of Year                      559         414        276         138          0
Interest                10%       28          49         35          21          7
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                 -260          91        114         127        141
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Before Financing        17%
After Financing         27%
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                 -260          91        114         127        141
Producer Contribution            227
Cash Flow                        -33          91        114         127        141
Accumulated Cash Flow            -33          58        172         299        440
Producer Contribution Needed   260



- 52 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table 4: (D) WHOLESALE MARKET
Financial Analysis
(US$ '0'0)
Year 1    Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5
INFLOWS
Income                                     72877      72877      72877       72877
OUTFLOWS
Operating Cost                              5830       5830       5830        5830
Sales Cost                                 64860      64860      64860       64860
Investment                       4459
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING                 -4459      2187       2187       2187        2187
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan         70%
Disbursement                      3120
Repayment Principal                          780        780         780        780
End of Year                       3120      2340       1560        780           0
Interest               10%         156       273        195        117          39
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                  -1495      1134       1212        1290       1368
INTERNAL RATE OR RETURN
Before Financing        34%
After Financing         71%
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                  -1495      1134       1212        1290       1368
Producer Contribution             1651
Cash Flow                          156      1134       1212        1290       1368
Accumulated Cash Flow              156      1290       2502       3792        5160
Producer Contribution Needed      1495



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 10 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table 5: (E) CONSTRUCTION OF A 2500 SQ.MS. SUPERMARKET
PART OF A REGIONAL CHAIN
Financial Analysis
(US$ '000)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4    Year 5
INFLOWS
Income                            870        7826       7826        7826      7826
OLUTFLOWS
Operating Cost                    122        1095       1095        1095       1095
Sales Cost                        678        6104       6104        6104      6104
Investment                       1287
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING                -1217         627        627         627       627
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan          702
Disbursement                      900
Repayment Principal                           150        250         250       250
End of Year                       900         750        500         250         0
Interest                10%        45          83         63          38        13
Short-Term Loans                  257
Interest                10%        26
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                  -388         395        315         340       365
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Before Financing        37%
After Financing         86%
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                  -388         355        315         340       365
Retailer Contribution             150
Cash Flow                        -238         395        315         340       365
Accumulated Cash Flow            -238         157        471         811       1175
Owner's Contribution Needed       388



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 11 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table 6: (F) CONSTRUCTION OF A 150 SQ.MS. RETAIL STORE
AFFILIATED TO A VOLUNTARY CHAIN
Financial Analysis
(US Dollars)
Year 1      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4    Year 5
INFLOWS
Income                           352         470         470        470        470
OUTFLOWS
Operating Cost                    39          52          52         52         52
Cost of Sales                    285         380         380        380        380
Investment                       110
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING                 -82          38          38         38         38
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan        80Z
Disbursement                      82
Repayment Principal                3          47          17         10          5
End of Year                       79          32          15          5          0
Interest              10          4           6           2          1          0
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                   -7          -15         19         27         33
INTERNAL RATE OR RETURN
Before Financing     30%
After Financing       71%
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                   -7          -15         19         27         33
Producer Contribution            227
Cash Flow                        220         -15          19         27         33
Accumulated Cash Flow            220         206         224        251        284
Producer Contribution Needed       7



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 12 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table 7: (G) Construction of a 1500 sa.ms. retail market
Including 30 sq.ms. of refrigeration
Occupied by 74 retailers
Financial Analysis
(US$ '000)
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
INFLOWS
Income                            0          0          120        256         626
OUTFLOWS
Operating Cost                   30         34           35         43          40
Investment                      190        246
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING               -220       -280           85        213         586
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan        80Z       345
Disbursement                     65         197          83
Repayment Principal                                                 87         258
End of Year                      65        262          345        258           0
Interest              1OZ         3         16           30         30          13
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                -158         -99         138         96         315
INTERNAL RATE OR RETURN
Before Financing       21%
After Financing        30Z
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                -158         -99         138         96         315
Owner's Contribution            155
Cash Flow                        -3        -99          138         96         315
Accumulated Cash Flow            -3       -103           35         131        446
Owner's Contribution Needed    158



- 56 -
Annex 4
Page 13 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table 8: (H) MODERNIZATION OF A MEDIUM-SIZED SUPERMARKET
Financial Analysi:
(US$ '000)
Year 1    Year 2      Year 3      Year 4
INFLOWS
Income                               0       3800        3990       4190
OUTFLOWS
Cost of Sales                        0       2850        2990       3140
Operating Cost                      10        680         720        750
Taxes                                0          10         10          10
Investment                         410
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING                  -420        260         270        290
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan         80%
Disbursement                       330
Repayment Principal                  0          66        132         132
End of Year                        330        264         132          0
Interest               10%          17         30          20          7
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                   -107         164        118         151
INTERNAL RATE OR RETURN
Before Financing        42%
After Financing        129%
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                   -107         164        118         151
Owner's Contribution               418
Cash Flow                          312         164        118        151
Accumulated Cash Flow              312         476        594        745
Producer Contribution Needed       107



- 57 -
Annex 4
Page 14 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table 9: (I) CONSTRUCTION OF REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSE FOR MEAT
Financial Analysis
(US$ '000)
Year 1      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
INFLOWS
Income                                      375         750        750         750
OUTFLOWS
Operating Costs                             175         225        225         225
Administrative Costs                           9         17          17         17
Taxes                                         0           0         83          83
Investment                       920
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING                -920        191         508        425         425
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan          80Z
Disbursement                     736
Repayment Principal                0        105         105        105         105
End of Year                      736        631         526        421         315
Interest                10X       37         68          58         47          37
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                 -221         12-'       450        378         388
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Before Financing        22Z
After Financing        110Z
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                 -221         123        450        378         388
Owner's Contribution             418
Cash Flow                        197        123         450        378         388
Accumulated Cash Flow            197        320         770       1148        1536
Producer Contribution Needed    221



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 15 of 15
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
Table 10: (J) MODERNIZATION OF CHEESE PROCESSING PLANT
Financial Analysis
(USS '000)
Year 1    Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
INFLOWS
Income                                     6775        6775       6775        6775
OUTFLOWS
Operating Costs                            6452        6452       6452        6452
Administrative Costs                         143        143        143         143
Taxes                                        83          83         83          83
Investment                       170
NET BENEFIT
BEFORE FINANCING                -170         97          97         97          97
FINANCING PLAN
Long-Term Loan           80X
Disbursement                     136
Repayment Principal               22         39          39         12          12
End of Year                      114         97          58         46          34
Interest                 10X       6         11           8          5           4
NET BENEFIT
AFTER FINANCING                  -40         86          89         92          93
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Before Financing         44%
After Financing         2162
CASH FLOW
Net Benefit
After Financing                  -40         86          89         92          93
Owner's Contribution             418
Cash Flow                        378         8E          89         92          93
Accumulated Cash Flow            378        46L         554        646         739
Producer Contribution Needed      24



- 59 -
Annex 5
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
PROJECT COST
(US$)
Local               Foreign         Total
Component           Costs                Costs           Costs
(A) CREDIT               98.6                 77.5           176.1
(B) INSTITUTIONAL a/       0.1                 1.3             1.4
SUPPORT
CONTINGENCIES b/                           0.1             0.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       98.7                 78.9          177.6
a/ Includes Technical Assistance to Retailers, Studies, Training,
Marketing Documentation and Computer Equipment for SNIM
bI 3% of (B) for 1990 and 4Z for the following years



- 60 -
Annex 6
MEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(in US$ Million)
Fiscal Year       Semiannual         Cumulative          S of Total
--------------------------------------------------------------------__----
1990
1st         18.14 a/           18.14               18.1
2nd          8.15              26.29               26.3
1991
1st          8.55              34.84               34.8
2nd          8.55              43.39               43.4
1992
1st          8.98              52.37               52.4
2nd          8.97              61.34               61.3
1993
1st          9.43              70.77               70.8
2nd          9.43              80.20               80.2
1994
lst          9.90              90.10               90.1
2nd          9.90              100.00             100.0
a/ Includes US$10.0 million of retroactive financing



- 61 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
mEXICO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
SPECIAL STUDIES
Terms of Reference
A. Study on Auction System for Wholesale Markets
1.       The objective of this study would be to determine the feasibility
of introducing an auction system in selected wholesale markets to improve
price transparency, quality control, and efficiency of transactions of
perishable products. The study would begin with a thorough review of
related work done by FIDEC and other Government agencies. It would be
carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, would be
completed by July 30,1990, and would cover the following points:
- Identify and analyze the current price setting mechanism for
perishable products in the wholesale markets of Mexico City and two other
selected locations in the country;
- Evaluate rhe experience of existing auction systems in wholesale
markets in other countries (e.g the Aalsmeer flower market in Holland) and
the possibility of transferring such experiences to selected wholesale
markets in Mexico;
- Evaluate the extent to which the introduction of a formalized
auction system within wholesale markets could reduce prices of food
products at the consumer level, and/or increase the price received by
producers;
- Determine technological and financial needs associated with the
introduction of an auction system, including communications and
infrastructure, in Mexico City and at two other selected locations in the
country;
- Identify the main constraints, including Government regulations,
that may be limiting the introduction of an auction system in wholesale
markets in Mexico City and at least two of the other major wholesale
markets in Mexico;
- Examine the willingness of producers and wholesalers to adopt
the auction system in wholesale markets, and their attitude towards the
consequent improvement in price transparency, and;
- Make reco mendations as to how an auction system could be
introduced in wholesale markets in Mexico City and other selected locations
in the country, including the need for procedural, regulatory, and legal
changes.
2.       The study would be carried out with the assistance of external
consultants with proven experience in economics and marketing of perishable
food products. A mid-term review would be undertaken by the Bank and the
Government to discuss the preliminary findings. The budget for this study
is estimated at US$75,000.



- 62 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
B. Study on Regulatory Issues Affecting the Food Retail Sector
in Mexico City
1.       This study would be carried out by FIDEC in cooperation with the
Federal District, Hacienda, NAFIN, and SNIM under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. The study would review and analyse licensing
procedures and barriers to entry for new food retail stores in Mexico City.
It would be completed by March 31, 1991 and would cover the following
points:
- Identify and summarize the Government's criteria for licensing
of new food retail stores in Mexico City. This task would incorporate
related studies and information already available in FIDEC;
- Review and summarize the "Ley de Uso del Suelo", 'Programa
General de Des--rollo Urbano del Distrito Federal" and the 'Plan del Uso
del Suelo" for selected delegations in Mexico City, according to the
District's definition of urban center, sub-center, and urban corridors;
- Determine to what extent norms and regulations in the 'Plan del
Uso del Suelo" may be limiting modernization of the food marketing system
in Mexico City, including the price impact on consumers of these
limitations;
- Identify possible barriers to entry contained in the 'Plan del
Uso del Suelo", including explanation for these possible barriers;
- Evaluate and quantify if limitations and restrictions to open
new medium to large food retail stores in Mexico City could result in
excessive food prices to consumers;
- Identify if there are any incentives for new food retail stores
to move into low-income areas of Mexico City, whether these incentives are
adequate, and to what extent Government-owned retail stores may be limiting
competition and private investment in these low-income areas;
- Compare prices (e.g in a matrix form) for selected food products
paid by consumers of different income levels in Mexico City neighborhoods,
comparing prices in retail stores of different sizes allowed in these
neighborhoods under the "Plan del Uso del Suelo";
- Identify the main sources of formal and informal credit
currently being used by food marketing enterprises, stores and individual
vendors in Mexico City; specify the usual terms and conditions of these
credits and determine whether there are credit limitations that may affect
investment and modernization in the sector;
- Review and analyze food transport regulations in Mexico City and
how they may be limiting competition and slowing modernization of the food
marketing sector and make recommendations as to how transport regulations
in Mexico City could be improved to reduce transaction costs;



- 63 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
- Make recommendations as to how licensing procedures may be
simplified (e.g introducing a system of "single window' for licensing of
new retail stores, including specific feasible timetables for the issue of
permits and licenses;
- Make recommendations for modernizing food retail stores in
Mexico City, differentiating between urban planning design and regulatory
changes with specific reference to those that would require legislative
action;
- Identify if, within the "Plan del Uso del Suelo", economic
considerations were taken into account to define sale floor area thresholds
for retail stores in urban centers, sub-centers, and urban corridors;
2.       The study would be undertaken by economists who would focus more
specially on marketing, urban development, and finance, who would be
supported by experts on regulatory issues. The budget for the study is
estimated at US$75,000.
3.       The study wetld propose an action plan to improve retail food
distribution and simplify and expedite licensing procedures in Mexico City.
The action plan would be agreed with the Bank and would be implemented
during the life of the proposed second Agricultural Project.
HI
u'



- 4-
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
DAILY PRICES OF FPtUm AND VEETABLES PRODUCED
BY NHA'IL MArKET DWATIO  SERVICE
£SNLESAEMR
Basic PrOedach  (Ubsegal Prlee I. Pesoe
June 283 1989
FRUITS                                           TODAY         YESTERDAY               CHANGE
Avocado Hass           C3a. 26 Kg.      Mich.    52,000         62,0W6             S/C
eon No. 2            Cja. 17 Kg.      Mich.     16,60         10,006             S/C
Ldmon No. 8            Cja. 17 Kg.      Mich.     12,6006       1',66              Baja   1,600
Lemon No. 4            CJa. 17 Kg.      Mich.     15,600        14,90m             Alzo   1,6G
Lemon No. S            CJo. 17 Kg.      Mich.     17,000        16,6OO             Alza   1,600
Lemon Sin/sem          Arp. 40 Kg.      Ver.      16,696        19,WO9             S/C
Applo Golden Dol.      Cj. 20 Kg.       Chih.     68,696        85,606             Auz   8,666
Apple Red Dol.         CJa. 20 Kg.      Chih.    865,66         68,000             Aixa   2,000
Apple Starky           Cja. 20 Kg.      Chih      90,066        90,66              S/C
Orange Val. Chi.       Kg.              Ver.         756           800             Baja      56
Orange Vei. Med.       Kg.              Ver.         Ws          1,606             Baja     166
Papaya An rilla        Kg.              Vor.       1,66          1,6O              S/C
Papaya Roja            Kg.              Oro.       1,006         1,600             S/C
Pineapple Mediana      Unided           Ver.       1,400         1,466             S/C
Banana Chiapas         Kg.              ChiT.        900           goo             S/C
Banana Macho           Kg.              Ver.       1,66          1,566             S/C
Banana Tabasco         Kg.              Tab.         760           750             S/C
Banana Vorecruz        Kg.              Vor.         700           766             S/C
Banana Dominico        Kg.              Tab.         90            900             S/C
Grapefruit Roja        Kg.              Vet.       1,166         1,100             S/C
Strawberry             C3n. 06 Kg.      Gto.      16,6W         14,600              Alza  2,606
Mango Haden            Cia. 25 Kg.      Nay.      22,600        23,606             Baja  1,006
Mango ManIla           Cia. 86 Kg.      Vor.     56,066         56,6o              Baja   5,000
Durazno Peaches        Cja. 10 Kg.      Son.      84,066        88,66              Alza   1,006
Avocado Criollo        CJa. 26 Kg.      MIc.      42,0W6        40,600             Alza   2,06
Grapes Perlot          C3a. 16 Kg.      Son.      22,006        22,006             S/C
Grapes Cardenal        Cja. 16 Kg.      Son.      22,006        28,666             BaJa  1,606



- 65 -
Annox 8
Pago 2 of 2
DAILY PRICES OF FRUMS AN  VEGETABLES PRODUCED
BY NATIWNAL MARKET INFURMATION SERVICE
muco cm
WHCLESALE MARKET
Bsole Product. MWhol.e*l. Priet In Pea")
June 23. 1989
VEGETABLES                                        TODAY          YESTERDAY               CHANCE
Carlic Whit*           Arp. 80 Kg.       Age.      90,000         84,0W              AIza   6,O00
Gourd Criol!s          CJa. 25 Kg.       Hgo.      18,000         13,o66             S/C
Gourd Italilna         CJa. 25 Kg.       Hgo.      11,6000        1,6O               Alzn   1,600
Onion Bola             Arp. 86 Kg.       au.       11,400         11,400             S/C
Oni7  de Rabo          MnJ. 25 Kg.       Pus.      10,00          12,00              Baja   2,000
Chick pea Arrugado     Cot. 70 Kg.       m6x.      49,666         49,000             S/C
Chil- JaipeRo         Arp. 30 Kg.       Ver.      69,6000       68,66               S/C
Chile Poblano          Arp. 40 Kg.       Gto.     146,696        128,000             Alz.  12,906
Chil Serrano          Arp. 80 Kg.       S.L.P.    66,6O          66,196             S/C
Oren Beans             Cot. 160 Kg.      Hgo.      60,660         66,669             S/C
Green Corn             Ciento            Nor.      66,OO9         46,660             AIze  14,000
Lettuce Romanit,       Doe ns            Pue.      12,606         10,000             Alza   2,006
Lettuce Orajone        Doe ns            Pu.       16,60          14,006             AIza   2,600
Melon No. 8a           CJa. 40 Kg.       Coh.      26,000         25,060             S/C
Potatoes Alfa          Arp. 50 Kg.       Cto.     1156,06        115,lS              S/C
Potatoes Col. L6pez    CJa. 8a  Kg.      m6x.      69,666         69,000             S/C
Tomatoes Sola           Cja. 80 Kg.       to.      -------- -      ----
Carrots Lelia          Arp. 86 Kg.       ato.      16,66          1,000              AIza   2,00
Carrote Medlena        Arp. 86 Kg.       Pu.       17,666         17,009             S/C
Carrote Polvo          Arp. 86 Kg.       Pue.       8,000          8,000             S/C
Cauliflower Medians    Doe na            Puo.      18,006         16,6W              AIza   2,000
Chayot*                CJa. 8S Kg.       Var.      46,000         45,000             S/C
Tomatoes Bola          CJa. 16 Kg.       BC.       86,600         88,0               Baja   8,000
Tomatoes Verde         CJa. 25 Kg.       Pue.      40,96          40,0W              S/C
Tomatoes Saledet       CJa. 80 Kg.       Son.      18,060         18,00d             S/C
Cucumber               CJa. 30 Kg.       Hgo.      10,000         18,666             Baja   8,0W
Sourc:  SNIM/Mexico Wholeale Markoet (published In Excelsior and several other national
and regional newspapers)



- 66 -
Annex 9
Documents in Files
A. AMricultural Sector
Al. Board Report No. P-4952-ME: Mexico - Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan in an amount equivalent to US$500.0 million, dated May 22,
1989.
B. Marketing Sector
Bl. Report titled "Expansion and Modernization Strategies for Food
Marketing Analysis, Evaluation and Projection," prepared by FIDEC
and dated October 13, 1988.
B2.  Sector Report No. 7329-ME titled "Mexico - Regulatory Issues in
the Marketing of Perishable Products' prepared by J.J. de Saint
Antoine and dated July 22, 1988.
B3. Report titled "Efectos de los Mercados Mayoristas en las
Estructuras Agricolas y Comerciales, XIV Congreso de la Union
Mundial de Mercados Mayoristas," dated April 14-18, 1986.
B4. Report titled 'Marketing and Exchange of Agricultural Products-
-Evolution and Current Status of Food Marketing in Mexico,"
prepared by Dr. Sergio Chazaro Loaiza, dated January 1988.
C. Financial Sector
Cl. Board Report No. P-4952-ME: Mexico - Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan in an amount equivalent to US$500.0 million, dated May 22,
1989.
C2. Report No. R89-81 titled "Report on Mexico's External Debt
Renegotiations" prepared by S. van Wijnbergan, dated September 1,
1989.
C3. Draft Initiating Executive Project Summary on Rural Financial
Subsector Loan, dated September 29, 1989.
D. Proiect Preparation
Dl. 'Mexico - Proyecto de Comercializacion de Alimentos Componente de
Desarrollo Institucional (CDI)" prepared by A. Tobelem, dated
May 1989.



