Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No, 8834
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CONGO
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2285-COB)
JUNE 25, 1990
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                         CFAF 320  1/
CFAF1 million                   US$3,125
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
Cadaster  - Land Registry Department/Ministry of Public Works
(Cadastre/Minist&re des Travaux Publics)
CCA       - Congolese external debt management agency
(Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement)
CENAGES   - Centre      onal de Gestion
CEPI      - Centre i  ,aluation des Projets d'investissement
CNC       - Commissariat National aux Comptes
CPP       - Country Program Paper
CRETH     - Urban Planning Office/Ministry of Public Works
(Centre de Recherches et d'Etudes Techniques de
1'Habitat/Ministere des Travaux Publics) .
DCMCE     - Direction Centrale des March4s et Contrats de l'Etat
DCUH      - Directorate of Construction, Urban Planning and Housing/
Ministry of Public Works
(Direction de la Construction, de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat/
Ministere des Travaux Publics)
IMF       - International Monetary Fund
ONPT      - Office National des Postes et des Tdlecommunications
PAS/SAL   - Structural Adjustment Program
PAT       - Projet d'Assistance Technique
PE        - Public Enterprise
PPF       - Project Preparation Facility
RPC       - Republique Populaire du Congo (People's Republic of the Congo)
SGAT      - Secretariat General of Territorial Administration/Ministry of
Interior
(Secretariat General A l'Administration du Territoire/
Ministare de l'Interieur)
TA        - Technical Assistance
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programme
1/ The CPA Franc (CFAP) is tied to the French Franc in the ratio of FF1 to
CPAF 50. At appraisal the exchange rate stood at $1 - 355 CFAP.



FOR OFFICIAL U   ONLY
HE WORlDt BANKE
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0 of smftumEetw-Owa
June 25, 1990
MEKlORANDINI TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRETORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Congo - First
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2285-COB)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on the Congo .- First Technical Assistance Project (Loan
2285-COB)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a rscted dibution and may. be wmed by tecpients onb In the performace
of their offiil dutis Its contoets may not othewse be discsed whout Wodd hak authoatonu



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CONGO
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2285-COB)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface . . .  .  .  .  ....  .  ....  .  ....  .  ....  .  ....  .  ....  . . .
Evaluation Summary . . . . . . . . . . . .                    ii
I.        Part I
Project Identity   . ................  .                   1
Background   . .*.  . . .... . .   . .  #... . .   . . . . . .  1
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . .  2
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Project Implementation   .. ...........  ...   4
Other Project Implementation Issues  . . . . . . . . . .  7
Bank Performmace   . . . .  . . . ..  . . . . .  . . ..   7
Borrower's Performance   . . . . . ..  . .  . ... .. .   8
Consulting Services  . . . . ..    .. . .. . ..   8
Conclusions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Attachment Is Table of Key Indices    . . . . . . .  10-14
II.     Part II  Borrower's Analysis of the Project   . . . . . . . . . 15
III.    Part III  Summary of Statistical Data
Table l:  Related Bank Loans   .9. ..........   21
Table 2s  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Table 3: Loan Disbursements   . . .  . . . .  . . . . . 23
Table 4A: Project Costs and Finnc ing .   . . . . . . 24-25
Table 4Bt Project Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Table sAt Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Table SB  Missions  ............... ..  26-27
Table 6: Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Table 7: Compliance with Loan Covenants      . . . . . . 31
Attachment  I: Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . 34-44
Attachment IIs List of Contracts on File . .. . . . . 45-47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CONGO
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2285-COB)
PROJECT CQKPIV>TION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical
Assistance Project in the Congo, for which Loan 2285-COB of US$11.0 million
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 19, 1983. It was fully
disbursed and the last disbursement was made on January 14, 1987.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of the
Central and Occidental Africa Department of the Africa Region (APlCO). The
Congolese authorities have submitted their own assessment of the Project
which is attached as Part II of this Report.
The PCR was compiled on the basis of information available in
Wasbington. It is based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the Loan
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, the Project Implementation Monitoring System (PMIS), discussions
with representatives of the Borrower in the field. Comments were also
obtained from the task managers/project staff who initially appraised and
supervised the project and from the current Country Economist.



- ii -
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2285-COB)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUSE4ARY
Obiectives
1.        At appraisal, the Technical Assistance Project (PAT) aimed to
facilitate implementation of Government reforms in macroeconomic, financial
and urban sector management. The design of the project was substantially
modified twice to reflect the change of orientation in Government's economic
policy as a result of the deterioration of the country's financial situation.
First, in 1983, the Government requested that the urban component be dropped
and replaced by a macroeconomic and investment prograuming component.
Second, in 1985, b,th the Bank and the Government agreed to drop activities
which were no longer priorities in view of the Congo's severe economic
crisis, and use the savings to assist the Government finance actions to
support a structural adjustment program (PAS) which had been prepared and
designed by the Government without Bank or IMP involvement (PCi paras. 3-6).
2.        The objectives of the restructured project weres to increase the
Ministry of Finance's capacity to make short-term adjustments in public
finance operations and to resolve structural problems vitally affecting
medium-term public finance prospects, including debt management; to improve
the Ministry's management of the public enterprise sector; to provide on-the-
job and overseas training of local staffs to help Government implement and
consolidate its structural adjustment program; and to restore the
macroec-nomic planning and investment programming systems.
Implementation Experience
3.        The PAT was the first technical assistance project which the Bank
financed in the Congo. It was closely tied to the volatile and changing
fortunes of the Congolese economy. The entire implementation period of the
project can be characterized as one of considerable deterioration in economic
performance and outlook, compounded by a more severe aggravation of the
country's public finance and debt problems.  Implementation was severely
affected by a number of institutional factors and lack of Government
commitment to the objectives of the project.
4.        Performance with regards to procur emet, accounting and internal
control  practices  were  some  of  the  weakest  elements  in  project
implementation.   The expatriate  coordinator assumed major managerial,
technical and administrative decision-making role under the project.  The
consulting fim under which he was contracted also bid for and provided
consultancy services to the project.  In fact, this consultant was in a
position to select consultants' shortlist, to award or to influence the award
of contracts. In addition, he decided on the acceptability of consultant's
work, approved and made payments for his own services and for those of other
consultants from his own consulting firm or others. (PCR para. 23). He was
also the sole signatory under the project accounts throughout the life of the
project.   The auditors's report underlines these same findings and in
addition lists approximately ClAP 200 mlllion of expenditures made out of
local counterpart funds for which there exist no supporting evidence, and in
the case of certain consultants, no contracts. (PCR para. 28)



- lil -
Results
5.        The experts recruited under the project were generally hard-working
and some managed to produce useful results, particularly in the areas of
public service reform and investment programming.   The effectiveness of
resident ezperts in transfereing skills or meeting capacity-building
objectives was limited by the relative absence of counterparts (PCR paras.
17-19).
6.        The project had relative success with regard to studies.   For
ezample, several management and diagnostic audits of parastatalo contributed
significantly to far-reaching institutional reforms under the Bimnk-financed
SAL I. Later studies helped define key policy measures in employment, small-
and medium-scale enterprise sector, employment in the public enterprise
sector and on public administration. Some important studies, however, did
not receive the necessary follow-up from the authorities and their
recommendations were never implemented.
7.        The results of the training component were poor despite the fact
that there existed a diagnosis of training needs and a training plan for the
project. This can be attributed in part to the lack of counterpart staff
assigned to resident experts, but, more impcrtantly, to the training having
been supply-driven in many cases.   Essentially,  training and capacity
building were not considered priorities in the course of project
implementation. (PCR paras. 17-19)
Findints and Lessons Learned
8.        The PAT could be viewed as a relative success in that it provided
the Government the necessary tools to put in place a structu;al adjustment
program that was later supported by a Bank-financed loan. With respect to
its long-term objective of capacity-building, the project must be seen as
having largely failed. Furthermore, the project failed largely to address
the country's poor institutional and weak administrative capacity in its
institution-building objectives. For example, the assistance provided to the
CCA was largely a failure because of inability to remove the institutional
obstacles to the efficient operation of the CCA as a debt monitoring agency
(PCR paras. 15-16). In addition, project management was primarily handled
by the expatriate coordinator without any Congolese back-up. (PCR paras. 24-
26)
9.        The main lessons learned from this experience are the followings
(a) Government commitment must be clear and unambiguous;
(b) Project objectives must be carefully measured against
local institutional capacity for implementation; where
required, prior actions must be carried out in order to
ensure that local institutions are able to carry out
efficient project execution;
(c) Local project management capacity must be fostered in
order to ensure that institution-building takes place;



- lv -
(d) Arms-length monitoring of procurement and disbursement
procedures must be put In place to ensure transparency
ti procutement and financial management (PCR para. 23)



CONGO
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2285-COB
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
The Bank's Persnective
I. Proiect Identity
Project Names First Technical Assistance Project
Loan No.    : Loan 2285-COB
Loan Amount : US$11.0 million equivalent
RVP Unit    s Africa
Country     :  People's Republic of the Congo
Sectors     : Macroeconomic and urban  1/
1I. Backaround
1.        In December 1981, the Government of the Congo adopted its 1982-86
Development Plan which was largely designed to employ its relatively vast
level of expected petroleum revenues to restructure its economy for long-term
growth. The Bank's review of the Plan in the context of preparation of a CPP
confirmed the view that a very high priority should be given to improving
public finance management to help control the anticipated negative effects
of the petroleum syndrome as were previously seen in the Congo during 1973-
1977, and acceleration of infrastructure investments in urban areas where the
increase in most productive investment activity would tend to occur. The
project was a result of discussions to this effect with the Government and
a joint review of project preparatory work during 1981-1982 under the Bank-
executed UNDP-financed project with the Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement
(CCA) and an urban sector memorandum.
2.        The  First  Technical  Assistance  Project  (Ln.  2285-COB)  was
consequently  identified  I. 1982 and was  subsequently prepared by the
Government, consultants and Bank staff under the Bank-executed UNDP-financed
project (UNDP/PRC/80/003) and PPP no. 57. The urban component was based on
the findings of an urban sector memorandum dated September 1982 and a follow-
up mission in December 1982. The project was appraised in February 1983; the
loan for US$11.0 million equivalent was approved in May 1983; the loan
agreement became effective in February 1984: and the project closed on June
30, 1987.
3.        The design of the project was substantially modified twice to
reflect the change of orientation in Government's econoAic policy as a result
of the deterioration of the country's financial situation. First, in 1983,
the Government requested that the urban component be dropped and replaced by
a ma xroeconomic and investment programming component. Second, in 1985, both
the Bank and the Government agreed to drop activities which no longer were
of priorities in view of the Congo's severe economic crisis, and use the
savings to assist the Government finance actions to support a structural
adjustment program (PAS) which had been prepared and designed by the
1/   By the time the loan was signed in October 1983, the urban sector
component had been cancelled upon Government's request.



- 2 -
Government without Bank or IMF involvement. 21 A full discussion is provided
below.
Macroeconomic Performance
4.        When the project was appraised, Congo was already in the throes
of a severe financial crisis.   As a result,  the Bank concentrated on
designing a project that would put the required analytical tools in the hands
of the Government to help them face the situation.   However,  Congo's
financial crisis continued to worsen, not only on account of a shortfall in
resources stemming from the oil sector but also because of the inadequate
policy response to the country's more difficult circumstances. By 1985, oil
output had  fallen  and real GDP had declined.   Domestic  and external
imbalances had persisted; the performance of the public enterprise sector
had continued to deteriorate; domestic and external payments arrears had
continued to accumulate; and external reserves -tere virtually exhausted. In
the face of dim prospects for revival of oil prices, the medium-term outlook
was not favorable, especially in view of the likely stagnation of oil export
receipts and rapidly rising external debt service obligations.
5.        In the midst of this, the Bank suqpended disbursements to the Congo
in September 1984 because of accumulated arreers in debt service payments to
the Bank and because of non-compliance of 1   negative pledge clause on
outstanding loans. By the time suspension was l'fted in February 1985, the
Bank had adopted a new approach to its assistance to the country by
emphasizing upfront policy making, commitment to reform and gradualism in
reacti7ating the lending program.  As a result, a protocole d'accord was
negotiated with the Congolese authorities between March and July 1985. The
document served as a vehicle to provoke debate at tie political level and
encourage the Government to move in the direction of structural reform.
6.        By 1985, the Government had also prepared a homegrown structural
adjustment program (PAS) which it adopted in July 1985 and which covered the
period from mid-1985 to 1987. The Government's objective under the PAS was
to achieve a viable balance of payments and budgetary position q.nd restore
sustainable economic growth over the medium-term. Although the program was
not comprehensive rnough to achieve its intended objectives, it nonetheless
represented a significant step forward. Both the Bank and the IMF stressed
to the G-vernment that in order to come to grips with the country's serious
problems and to achieve the Government's stated objectives, stronger and more
comprehensive adjustment measures were needed without delay. In particular,
they emphasized that the necessary containment of the growth of current
budgetary spending would require a reduction in the number of public sector
employees, a readjustment in education policy, and a thorough overhaul of
public enterprises.
III. Project Obiectives and Description
7.        The initial development objective of the project was to improve:
(i) the quality of the Government's public finance management and (ii) the
execution of its urban infrastructural program. The project's basic strategy
2/   In 1986, Government prepared a SAL with Bank assistance.



- 3 -
aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity of those Government
ministries and r.gencies having a vital influence over policy formulation and
decision-making.   The objective was to expand the technical assistance
relationship already established at the Ministry of Finance under a Bank-
executed UNDP project, which had begun to reorganize the Government's
external debt management agency (CCA) and computerize its debt data.  The
UNDP project had helped the Government define and adopt a policy of limiting
its future annual external debt service obligations to 30 percent of
Government's current fiscal receipts.  Although activities under the UND'
project represented a significant policy step forward in the Congolese
context, much more remained to be done in order to help the CCA bring about
proper public finance management.
8.        The project was divided into two compor.ents  at appraisal--a
financial component and an urban component.   Under the public finance
component, euiphasis was placed on (a) improving the management by the CCA of
existing external debt and the acquisition of new borrowings on terms
appronriate to each development project, (b) increasing the Ministry of
Finance's capacity to make, as required, short-term adjustments in public
finance operations and to resolve structural problems vitally affecting
medium-term public  finance prospects,  and  (c)  increase  the liinistry's
capacity to manage  the Government's  relationships with Congo's public
enterprises.   The urban component was to focus upon the improvement of
overall urban planning and policy-making.  The project aimed at providing 20
months of expertise and related consulting services to assist and train staff
of the Directorate of Construction, Urban Planning and Housing of the
Ministry of Public Works (DCUH) to (i) improve the existing land use, zoning
and urban planning regulations, and (ii) increase the effectiveness of
project coordination and monitoring procedures.
IV. Proiect Design and Organization
9.        Proiect Restructuring.    Project  implementation was  seriously
affected by Congo's severe economic crisis requiring two modifications in
project design (see para. 3). The fall in Congo's crude oil prices in early
1983 and more restrictive access to international capital markets had
resulted in a liquidity squeeze in the country and led the Government to
revise downward its medium-term fiscal revenue forecasts.  The Government
consequently decided in September 1983 to seek to adjust its policies and
programs so as to increase pub'': domestic savings and to focus more on
development of the productive sectors of the economy.   The Government
therefore requested the Bank, prior to loan signature in October 1983, to
reallocate US$3.4 million of the loan in order to expand the project's
support for the improvement of public finance and macroeconomic management.
10.       The Government's move to drop the urban component prior to loan
signature made sense.   Although the problems of the urban sector are a
priority in a highly urbanIzed country like the Congo, there were more
pressing problems at the time requiring more attention than urban issues.
Therefore, the emphasis placed in obtaining assistance to define and focus
on the analytical tools required to put an adjustment program in place were
well-timed and appropriate.  The Government suggested that the technical
assistance for the urban sector would be again considered for financing at



a later date in tho context of an urban development project that was then in
the pipeline.
11.       This shift in assistance was to serve to reinforce efforts to
improve public finance management and to enlarge the scope of collaboration
between the Ministries of Finauce and Planning. However, as the Key Indices
Table (Attachment I) shows, progress under this component was initially slow
and only few of the ob:ectives listed were met. The Government was not able
to put in place the coordination required at its own institutional level, and
failed to provide the local counterparts to the foreign technical assistants
that would have ensured a longer-lasting intervention in this area.
12.       By end-1985, the Sank had made a firm commitment to support the
Government's adjustment meaeures in the protocole d'accord that was signed
between the Government and the Bank in December 1985 in Brazzaville. As a
result of this comnttment, the Bank agreed to modify once more the
c -ientation of the Technical Assistance project in order to place emphasis
on the rehabilitation of the public enterprise sector. The Bank and the TMF
encouraged the authorities to undertake without delay the requisite measures,
including personnel eductions, flexible pricing policies that reflected
costs and greater efficiency of management.
V.   Proiect Implementation
13.       Given the country's poor institutional and weak administrative
capacities. the project's objectives were generally not reached because the
conditions to implement them did not exist.   It was only when the rapid
changes in the country's economic and financial situation became too serious
for the Government to ignore that the project's usefulness became obvious snd
it was then used to address the macroeconomic situation.
14.       Studies Overload.  The large number of studies planned under this
project is listed in Part III, Table 6. This was far tco many studies to be
well supervised by the Bank and well absorbed by the Borrower.   New
activities resulting from the shift in project orientation were financed with
the savings obtained by cancelling some foreign technical assistants'
positions whose work would not be relevant to the PAS.  Consequently, as
Congo's crisis deepened, long-term technical assistance intended for
institution-building was cancelled to free funds for additional studies
required to design macroeconomic reforms. All required the Bank's normal
review of terms of reference, procurement and contracting which proved time
consuming.    Moreover  at  appraisal,  an  exceptionally  wide  array  of
institutional strengthening was envisaged, particularly with regard to the
CCA, nearly all of which, to be successful required complex and systematic
change within institutions.   This,  in turn,  largely depended on strong
commitment from Government and a radical change in attitude by all concerned,
which proved to be insufficient during project implementation.
15.       Overly Ambitious Institutional Strenithening Obiectives for the
CCA.  The effort to strengthen the CCA was well intentioned and probably
appropriate at the time of appraisal, when the CCA had only recently been
established and appeared to have a clear mandate.  In addition, the UNDP-
funded TA at the CCA had had some positive results. It seemed logical to
pursue in that same direction and build on the achievements already made.



- 5 -
However, despite the 75 manmonths of TA a]located to develop the proper
management of the public debt portfolio and contracting of new debt, no
reliable debt information system was set up by the end of the project and
none of the other objectives specified at appraisal were fully met.
16.       The project never managed to remove the institutional obstacles
to the efficient operation of the CCA as a debt monitoring agency.  These
obstacles should have been taken inte account in the design of the technical
assistance prescribed for the agency and should have therefore influenced the
objectives and the scale of the project. The CCA did not have the necessary
autonomy to manage the public debt.   It depended on:  vi) the Budget
Directorate for its budgetary appropriations; (ii) the Treasury for the
transfer of funds; and (iii) the various operators (Ministries or public
entities) for drawings on loans. In addition, the CCA was not kept abreast
of all loan agreements signed by other ministries or general managers of
public entities, or it was informed too late, when negotiations had been
completed.   The advisers financed under the project could not usefully
intervene under these conditions. Also, the head of the CCA was not vested
with the required authority to enforce its mandate. The difficulties faced
by the CCA were further compounded by the fact that it was often called upon
to reimburse loans which had not previously been accounted for in the CCA's
fledgling debt monitoring system.   (The Government has,  in fact,  only
recently acknowledged the need for more autonomy by the CCA although no
official step has yet been taken to grant that autonomy.)
17.       Trainint. The results were poor despite the fact that a diagnostic
of training needs and a training plan for the project were completed in
September 1984 by the project's Training Coordinator.   The program was
identified in close cooperation with resident specialists and Congolese
authorities in each project component. The program consisted of: (a) the
description of skills required for the transfer of activities and
responsibilities under the project to Congolese staff, (b) an evaluation of
the existing skills of the staff, (c) an inventory of training needs, and
(d) proposed training programs with an indicative schedule of implementation.
18.       Three types of training were actually carried out under the
project: (i) on-the-job training by resident experts; ('i) seminars given
by expatriate specialists (including resident experts); and (iii) training
by incorporating Congolese nationals (professors, senior civil servants) in
the consulting teams. The first type of training turned out to be tte most
effective when there were counterparts available and the resident experts
willing to devote some time to training.  The Bank stressed the need for
associating competent Congolese officials to each resident expert and short-
term consultant in order to put as many Congolese as possible in contact with
the methods and tools brought by the technical assistants.   However, the
Government did not take the necessary measures to put the required staff in
place. This may have been due partly to the constantly changing direction
of the project and the fact that the functions performed by most of the
resident experts would have required more highly qualified staff than
available to benefit from their experience.   In addition,  the training
appeared to have been supply-driven in many cases and little effort was made
to ensure the transfer of skills from resident experts to Congolese staff.
However, some successful training did take place at the CENAGES, in the



- 6 -
Directorate of Planning (Ministry of Planning), and in the Directorate of
Studies (DEP-Ministry of Finance).
19.       The results of seminars were mixed.   For example. two seminars
organized by the financial consulting firm to the CCA on syndicated credits
in euro-currencies and public debt restructuring did not attract a single
participant.   Three Congolese consultants were incorporated in training
seminars but their contribution was minimal.  On       whole, the shortage of
qualified Congolese and the high turnover rate wexe major obstacles to the
successful implementation of the training program.
20.       Policy ':oi-lination under the Adlustment Propram.  To coordinate
policy formulat4zn _-- monitor implementation under the PAS, the Government
established unr   t-:e project a small Steering Committee including the main
economic ministers and high officials under the chairmanship of the Prime
Minister.   The Cummittee proved effective in building up the political
consensus for reform.  It was assisted by an ad-hoc Secretariat including
key civil servants for policy analysis and advice and the experts financed
under the project.   This committee played a key role in establishing
priorities for the PAS and thereby ensuring the satisfactory implementation
of the last phase of the technical assistance project by focusing on the
specific actions required to implement the adjustment program.
21.       Support for PE Reform. With the support of the project's technical
advisors, the Governmen- targeted the ten most important public enterprises
for major changes in their level of managerial autonomy, coupled with the
introduction   of   performance   contracts   ("contrats-programmes")   and
reinforcement of its oversight functions through the National Management
Center (CENAGES) and the Prime Minister's Office.   It also created a new
agency, the National Accounting Commission (CNC), to audit PE accounts and
to develop accounting norms and reporting standards, as well as develop local
auditing capabilities.  A classification of about 70 PEs into three main
categories was carried out (rehabilitation, liquidation, and privatization)
at the working level of the Steering Group. These early measures while not
attaining the goals originally set, established precedents in terms of: (i)
making a break from the orthodoxy of tripartite managemenr; (2) defining the
authority of the Prime Minister's Office in parastatal policy making; and (3)
instituting  the  concept  of  performance  monitoring  and  management
accountability. Gains were also made on the development of a PE database at
the CENAGES.
22.       Related Proiects.  The Bank approved a second technical assistance
projact in 1986 in order to provide continuity to PAS-related activities and
studies which had been started under TA I. These studies laid the groundwork
for some of the major public sector policy components of the Bank-financed
SAL program. They were also instrumental in helping the Bank formulate and
design the public enterprise sector component of the SAL and emphasized the
need for a free-standing project to address the difficult issues being faced
by the sector. As a result, a technical assistance project to reform the
public enterprise sector was appraised at the same time as the SAL in 1987
(see Table I, Part III).



VI. Other Proiect Implementation Issues
23.       Procurement.    Procurement  under  the  project  proved  to  be
troublesome although a high proportion of the contracts awarded under the
project were done so with Bank approval.   The difficulties arose from a
potential conflict of interest at the project management level where the firm
providing advisory service to the project through the Project Manager also
bid for and was awarded nearly a third of the contracts financed with project
funds (See Part III, Attachment I).   It is interesting to note that at
project start, the same firm, conscious of the potential conflict of
interest, refrained from responding to invitations to make proposals under
the project. The Project Manager was responsible for preparing the terms of
reference and process the shortlists and when he left to take over other
duties, his successor, also an employee of the same firm, was the only
candidate submitted for Bank approval. The Bank became more aware of this
potential area for conflict over the course of project implementation when
it became apparent that, at Government's request, an important number of
contracts were going directly to the firm in question.   Although not
explicitly prohibited in the Bank's guidelines, the preponderance of
conetacts to the same firm could at the very least give the impression of
improprieties in the award of contracts and the lack of impartiality of those
managing the process.
VII. Bank Performance
24.       The weak administrative capacity and lack of analytical tools
available in the key ministries of the Congo led the appraisal team to
prescribe drastic measures to redress the situation. Hence the Bank went in
with a crisis management approach. What was important was to put systems and
tools in place to help the country manage its economy. As the country did
not have the capacity to carry out its own reform, an army of technical
assistants were recruited to do the job. The overriding concern was to get
things moving efficiently and systematically whether or not it implied direct
involvement of Congolese nationals in the effort. Under these circumstances,
it is little wonder that the project failed to meet most of its stated
institution-building objectives and strengthening of the key ministries of
Plan and Finance.
25.       With hindsight, this was a short-sighted approach.  The Bank, as
one of Congo's main partners, should have anticipated the difficulties in
implementing such a large project in Congo's weak institutional environment.
It was too complex and its failure in meeting its objectives can be traced
to its lack of focus and direction. It was multi-faceted and was used more
as a fire-fighting tool than a well-thought out and focused program. The
project would undoubtedly have been more successful had it been less
ambitious and had it been based on a specific action program. It is worth
noting that the project's few successes--the most notable of which were the
studies carried out under the public enterprise component--resulted from the
need for specific information required as a basis to launch well-focused
policy reform measures.
26.       Several supervision missions of the project were carried out.
However, the Bank did not follow up on most of the studies financed under
the project, with the exception of the public enterprise studies due to their



importance and relevance to the Bank's policy reform program for the Congo.
Consequently, the Bank possesses haphazard information on the studies
financed under the project, and does not have copies of all of them. The
sheer size of the project and its objectives in fact made it a daunting task
for the Bank to carry out a systematic monitoring and evaluation during
supervision. For example, there is little record of progress of activities
financed under the project and practically no observations nor comments on
most of the studies.
VIII. Borrower's Performance
27.       The Borrower did not respond with the type of commitment required
to ensure the success of such a large and complex technical assistance
project. In fact, the fate of the project was closely linked to the vagaries
of the oil market and the Government's commitment to reform over most of the
life of the project was perhaps lukewarm at best. Also, the project was
implemented in a fast changing economic and financial environment. Technical
assistants were entrusted with an active role in tackling situations which
the Government believed to be temporary. Government's laissez-faire attitude
in handing over the responsibility to find solutions to Congo's financia'.
crisis to foreign experts stemmed partly from the fact that the Government
was overwhelmed with the situation at hand and believed the experts to have
all the answers.   The Government used the most expeditious approach to
dealing with foreign banks and international agencies such as the Bank by
relying entirely on the foreign experts while keeping its distance on the
sidelines. This lack of commitment by the Borrower had a negative impact on
the project and contributed to it failing to achieve most of its objectives.
28.       The first audit report submitted by the Borrower in July 1988,
seven months after the closing of the project, was rejected by the Bank for
non-compliance with established accounting and auditing guidelines. The Bank
insisted upon a new audit which was carried out in late 1989. The auditors'
report which was issued in March 1990 corroborates the conclusions of this
PCR with respect to procurement. In addition, the auditors' report reveals
that no proper internal control system was set up under the project
resulting in improper administrative, accounting and control practices; for
example,  the  auditors  were  unable  to  find  supporting  evidence  for
approximately CFAF 174 million of expenditures out of the counterpart funds
account,  and were unable to locate contract agreements for consultants
totalling approximately CFAF 27 million.
IX. Consulting Services
29.       Consultants played a pivotal role under the project.  They were
instrumental in providing technical advice to Congolese authorities.
However, they were solo performers, carrying out their responsibilities with
limited back-up from the Congolese. Consequently, when they left, they took
their knowledge and methods with them. Also, the omnipresent role of the
consultants shadowed the long-term contribution that could have been achieved
if emphasis had been placed upon recruiting and training Congolese staff.
The technical assistance financed under the project was one of substitution
rather than transferring of skills. As a result, the need for technical
assistance continues to be high in the Congo in all areas in spite of the
fact that Congo has the highest school enrollment rate in Africa.



-9-
30.       Project management and administration of project funds were handled
by the project's expatriate advisor with no Congolese involvement. The
expatriate technical assistant's role as originally designed was to be the
advisor to the Ministry of Finance and assistant to the Congolese Coordinator
to be appointed by the Ministry of Finance. However, the technical assistant
took over.
X. Conclusions
31.       The design of the project was certainly very ambitious.   Its
satisfactory execution would have required a much stronger government
commitment to the achievement of its objectives.   The project was too
diversified with too many priorities. As a result, the project lost its
sense of direction. Its activities developed along more neutral lines, i.e.
studies. Studies took a life of their own under the project, many of which
were not properly focused. As a result most of them have never been put to
use to date.
32.       The fundamental issue that needs to be addressed in reviewing this
project is the motivation of both the Bank and the Borrower in putting in
place such a complex, wide-ranging technical assistance package whose long-
term potential benefits to the country were questionable at best. In this
context, it is worth noting that the technical assistance provided under this
project turned out to be much more beneficial to the Bank than to the country
in that it provided the Bank with knowledge of the country's macroeconomic
framework and economic and social sectors instead of helping Government
identify priorities and focus on issues to be studied. The Bank failed to
ensure that the Borrower had the absorptive capacity to make full use of the
information that was to be generated under the project.



i X | i   ' & ¢ -   [ | | i  b 2           l, | ffi |    | 3 !                 I           § X  i  
----                                  -------                ---    --- -  -  -  -   -
BU'~~i  I-                  Iif                                                                   Ii
',  I, ;1,  ,1i  ' ,11111
5L 1     *. .~                    E~
I                                                       ti~~~~ 
W                     I~~~:-                  - Zt-  :
=3 cf



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                          -- -          - - - -             -- - -             - -           -        -         -        -        -         -        --                 ----
|~ ~~~~ w                        1                                                                                                                                        XitSS R11   
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40



- -    -    -    -    -    - -- -- -- -- -- -- -    -    -    -    -    -    - -- -- -- -- -- t- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I 
7s,   ,|ifl                              
---------fi-glrl-. l--      l     w--------------l -  - ----}--- -------S 
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
i f §- : - t § t4- i i-,A    g 2   "      t W  Sa
II                I                                I I  ,
-- -- -- - --   --  --  -  --  -- -1-       --1---      --    --  -  -  - -  -  -  - -



U.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 t 
Iji]                                          p~~~~~~~~~~i
11 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
If
r                               -40~~I,
t1~~  .  -.  ,2
t   El  b   il.                  tf-i&. 
LI  4' u--i              £~~a t           ai   a' I
VII  If!: ~~~~~~~~~~~&~~~~~j3i  i!jj~~~~~~~4
i,'; I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
iI~~~~~ £j~~~~~3t3.   .  'At  ½~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILI'4'!I~~~~~~~~~~~EI~~~~[1~~~~*A
-------------------- ---------  --                     -----



14- -aeta
-i f FM   fOMM
I    ____P         _ (ETD)I                                 I                                    _    _I
I7) prepare shOrt-terSte       sd draft cetrat-            Isf tcntrate-Prograes   wer  rwpared but
I di otic studio. & lpr"rease for M            SM, SPY,   Iver, of poor qaltu for  ack of a CmnCepUI
Irft operational    land ATC                              Ifrawwa.. However. they were Import"* in that tW
oriented  lcentat                                        ljistItabed the   eptf pAeror_mie meoitorir 
prograaase  for 4    Ila   saesemenk accountability. ("o Plart 1t pre r.)  I
IPE&                                                         
I                      I                                    I                                                         I
I   Ol)_ioei- of tho  IPrepurs a diernosi of _weral       1This 1Any1S- laid the Groundworit for ts
I PE setor             1public entarpriee                   lOmo"es deson to the fet* of .hidi p                      a
I                      I                                    Ito liquidete, relbilitOet or privatise.
1 9) Cens  ot thi      ICerry aOi a ceus of *II             J%es o"pration whici reslted in 19W  in, the  c -wel-
Civil Service         iyl servants, both caiser and    liatien of about 2000 payoheclia were vere beina Oset
rcmtrateal                           ItloAntee eslopee. 1Mover.   et Vero relnetae            I
lnfter verification. The oeration as    ty partic- I
I                      I                                    hensh,larPt     assumd a  in,t reults.                    I
IJameswoant behves that this type of  ot  oeratin
I                      I                                    1       Wlebould be avided espcl l1* in time eo *conmi 
lerilis.
I~~~~ I_                                                                                                        I



- 15 -
Part II
The Borrower's Perspective
(Translation)
The Need for Technical Assistance
1.        The public finances of the PRC had for some years shown substantial
fluctuations in budget receipts, while at the same time the policies on
government spending and the external debt had tended, in the short term, to
accentuate the upward movement of resources. The Congolese debt monitoring
agency, the CCA which, under the authority of the Ministry of Finance, is
responsible for managing the external debt, had a legal mandate to monitor
the timeliness and conditions of the external loans of government agencies
and state enterprises. The CCA's operations had recently been modernized in
order to allow it to meet the Government's needs during the petroleum boom.
The implementation of a UNDP-inanced project in 1981-82 which aimed at
helping to organize the CCA and to computerize the external debt data had
played a considerable role in that regard.
2.        An inventory of all external loan agreements entered into by the
Central Government had been systematically carried out and organized with
clauses, conditions and amortization schedules entered into the CCA
microcomputers. Consequently, all the data pertinent to the external public
debt and reimbursement projections could be reviewed at any time for
budgetary purposes cr to determine the marginal impact of new debt financing
proposals.   The legal framework governing the CCA's reorganization and
mandate had also been prepared and was to be submitted to the Council of
Ministers for approval.
3.        There was still a lot left to do to at the CCA to improve the
management of public finances. The CCA had to assert its role when proposals
for financing development projects were reviewed and at the time they were
negotiated. Yet, because of a lack of professional skills and the necessary
analytical tools, the CCA ended up playing an essentially passive role in
this area.   The Government continued on contracting new borrowings at
excessive rates and inappropriate conditions resulting in a debt burden which
the project (and ultimately the Government) could not handle. The CCA was
also called upon to follow the financial implementation of tbe investment
budget, including drawings of funds against available external commitments.
The agency staff were responsible for feeding the information at the monthly
meetings of senior government officials responsible for the implementation
of the 1982-86 Development Plan.   The CCA found the tasks impossible to
handle due to the poor quality of its data systems and the requests for
information, which resulted in poor cash management and unnecessary new
external borrowings. Finally, although the CCA was supposed to supervise the
financial relationship of the State with the public enterprise system, it
lacked complete basic data on State guarantees on the debt of the public
enterprises.   The CCA was even less capable of monitoring the financial
situation of public enterprises and implementing measures governing the
State's onlending terms to them.  In view of the pressures on the public
finance system, it was important to strengthen the CCA and the Ministry of
public finance as quickly as possible in all those areas.



- 16 -
4.        A large number of general problems involving the absorption and
use of oil resources were being created. Budget estimates did not exist and
taxes did not produce what was expected of them. The Ministry of Finance had
no tools really enabling it to keep track of the performance and liquid
assets of public finances. The public enterprises were not monitored and
their often inept management required infusions of budget resources to
maintain their financial equilibrium.
5.        The investment program, under execution under the first Five-year
plan, could not be implemented. This was partly due to too many projects and
inadequate resources to manage them.  Also, it was becoming evident that
other non-oil resources would have to be mobilized to promoto the development
effort.
6.        In addition, even if the Plan's investment objectives had been
met, the lack of financial planning made it impossible to earmark revenues
to maintain the urban infrastructure. A detailed analysis of the finances
of the Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire municipalities revealed that local
revenues had shrunk in real terms from 1976 to 1980, notwithstanding the
financial situation of the municipalities, [and] if the deterioration of the
existing infrastructure were to be stopped, it would be best to make the
fullest use of the incentives for new urban investment provided for under the
Plan.
The Program
7.        Two subprojects formed the cora of the programs
(a) Public Finances subproiect
(b) Economy/Plan subproiect
Public Finances Suboroiect
8.        The  objectives  of  the  public  finances  subproject  were  the
following:
(a) Develop the ability of the CCA:
(i) To recommend a policy on new debt in line with the targeted ceiling
of 30? of budget receipts for debt service.
(ii) To ensure that external borrowings for development projects receive
the most advantageous conditions possible and remain consistent
with repayment capacity and the project financitg plan.
(b) Ensure that the Ministry of Finance has the necessary capacity:
(i) To furnish recapitulative analyses of the principal macrofinancial
trends necessary for short-term management of political finances,
including implementation of the operating and investment budgets,
the balance of payment, borrowing and other monetary questions.



- 17 -
(ii) To analyze, as dictated by the needs of problems of crucial
importance to long-term policy in public finances, such as the
diversification and growth of non-oil revenues, creditworthiness
and the implications of ordinary project costs.
(c) Create new services capable of:
(i)  Producing twice-yearly reports on the consolidated f.nancial status
of the public enterprises.
(ii)  Formulating and implementing measures bearing on the Government's
financial relations with this system, including the reallocation
of loan funds and guarantees.
(iii) Supervising the preparation and implementation of a performance
contract with four public enterprises essential to the development
of the productive sectors of the economy and the basic
infrastructure.
Cd) Improving municipal management by:
Ci) Strengthening the institutional capacity of government agencies
charged vith supervising the activities of local governments.
(ii) Expanding the technical capacity of local governments to implement
current and/or future investment programs.
(iii) Identifying and putting into operation the means likely to augment
the revenues of local governments, thus enhancing their ability to
maintain infrastructure.
9.        In Order to Achieve Those Obiectives, the followina measures were
taken at the Ministrs of Finance:
(i)  A public finance adviser reporting directly to the Minister,
responsible especially for program coordination
(ii)  Actions taken in the area of budget preparation
(iii) A macroeconomist charged especially with the preparation of
performance charts, helped by a statistician-economist
(iv)  A legal-financial expert to handle performance contracts
(v)  A tax economist charged with improving tax yields, supported by
experts in tax reform
(vi)  A  training  specialist  responsible mainly  for organizing  the
training of Congolese correspondents
10.       At the General Secretariat of the Governments
(i)  A municipal finance expert



- 18 -
(ii)  A municipal management specialiat
11.       At the Congolese Debt Monitoring and Debt Amortization
Agency (CCA)s
li)  A  system  enabling  the  PRC  regularly  to  receive  financial
information concerning the international situation
(ii)  An adviser or organization
(iii)  A financial adviser for the State portfolio
(iv)  An expert in investment program management and in the financial
evaluation of projects
(v)  A lawyer
12.       For Better Control of the Public Enterprises
at the National Audit Offices
Si)  A trainer for the financial managers of the public enterprises
(ii)  Audit and accounting experts to train the auditors of the National
Audit Office (CNC)
13.       At the ONPT:
(i) A project manager
(ii)  An automation engineer
(iii) An auditing and financial expert
(4v)  An accountant to inventory frozen assets
14.       At CENAGES:
(i)  Advisers  to provide  information  on accounting  and  financial
management on each of the public enterprises.
Economv/Plan Subproiect
15.       The objectives of the Economy/Plan project were the following:
Mi)  Provide the means for better management of the investment program
(ii)  Improve the appraisal and evaluation of investment projects



- 19 -
(iii)  Study the prospects for the development of PRC resources other
than oil, especially in agriculture
(iv)  Promote the development of small and medium-scaled enterprises
(v) Improve the appraisal of the recurring costs of investment programs
(iv)  Define a pricing policy
In Order to Achieve Those Objectives:
16.       The  following means were made  available  to the Ministry  of
Planning:
(i) A macroeconomist to prepare the principal economic analysis
documents
(ii)  An economist organizer
(iii)  A project-feasibility studies adviser supported by an automation
expert responsible for developing software to study the ^.ost-
effectiveness of projects
(iv)  Teams of experts to study:
- recurrent project costs
- employment polic7
- civil service problems
- PME development
- cost and programming of road investments
- pricing policy
- diversification of resources



- 20 -
Conclusions
17.       The results of this program can be assessed as follows:
- Essential and successful missions                           502
- Totally useless, or unutilized, missions                    302
- Missions with limited effect but some useful resules        202
At any rate,  this ambitious program can claim to have made
available to the Congo, at a time when they were needed, a collection of
management data and tools which it had hitherto lacked.
It is thanks to this program that the structural adjustment program was
prepared by the Government and supported by the Bank.
That result alone justified the project.



- 21 -
PART III
SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
As the Government'r PCR only consists of a brief if somewhat sketchy analysis
of the project, this Part III will attempt to fill gaps where reliable
information is available.
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title           Purpose           Approved    Status          Comments
Technical            To design and       1986       Ongoing        Closing date
Assistance II        implement                                     extended to
policy measures                               12-31-90 to
aimed at                                      allow for
promoting                                     completion of
growth in the                                 the petroleum
non-oil sectors                               sector
of the economy                                component.
and formulate a
more effective
petroleum
development
strategy.
P.E. Reform T.A.    To provide the       1987       Ongoing
Government with
the necessary
technical and
administrative
capacity to
implement PE
refor4s and to
Improve PE
management.
Structural           To support a        1987       Completed
Adjustment Loan I   medium-term
structural
adjustment
program and
foster growth
in the non-oil
sectors.



- 22 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                 Date Planned   Date Revised   Actual
1.  Identification           NA              NA              11/81-6-82
2.  Preparation              NA              NA              10/15182
3. Appraisal Mission          02/22/83       02/22/83        02/22/83
4.  Loan Negotiations         05/03/83       06/83           04/26/83
5.  Board Approval            09/83          06/83           05/19/83
6.  Loan Signature           NA              NA              10/21/83
7. Effectiveness              01/30/84       03/30/84        02/03/84
8.  Closing Date              06/30/87       06/30/87        06/30/87
9.  Completion Date           12/31/86       12/31/86        12/31/86
Comments: Issues raised at each stage of project cycle
No major issues likely to affect project design and execution were identified
at appraisal. The loan was signed five months after Board presentation due to
the Government's official request on September 19, 1983, to reallocate US$3.4
million of the loan from the urban component to expand support for macroeconomic
management in the Ministry of Plan. This was precipitated in June 1983 when
payment arrears on debt service obligations and investment expenditures appeared
after the Government failed to make fiscal adjustment in response to a decline
in oil export prices.
During supervision  issues concerned the poor performance of the training
component, the api -.cation of recommendations of studies financed under the
project, the weak caparity of the Ministries and government agencies receiving
technical assistance. See also Part I for other issues raised during project
implementation.



- 23 -
Table 3s Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
Semester Ending         Appraisal   Cumulative   Actual as S    Actual
Estimate    Actual 1/    Estimate         S of
Disbursements                                                     Total
June 30, 1984                           2.0
December 31, 1984       1.5             3.3       2202            3G2
Juae 30. 1985                           5.5
December 31, 1985       5.0             6.6       1322            00t
June 30, 1986                           9.1
December 31, 1986       8.5            10.4       1222            952
June 30, 1987           11.0           11.0       1002           1001
The last disbursement was made on January 14, 1987.
11 The numbers shown in the column have all been rounded. The actual total
disbursement was US$10,972,659



- 24 -
Table 4: Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
The original Urban Investment Programming and Management Component was cancelled
prior to loan signature in September 1983 (see Part I) and the cancelled amount
was reallocated to finance the Macroeconomic Planning and Investment Management
component. As there exists no breakdown of the new component in the files, it
is assumed that the local costs were maintained at the same levels.
USS million
Local          Foreign         Total
Public Financial Management
External Debt Management            0.3             1.1             1.4
Public Finance analysis/Policy
advice                         0.3             1.0            1.3
Public Enterprise financial
analysis and contrat-programmes   0.5              1.7             2.2
1.1            3.8             4.9
Macroeconomic Planning and Investment Programming
Improvement of Public               1.4             3.4             4.8
Finance and Macroeconomic
sub-total                      1.4             3.4            4.8
Activities to be Identified             0.6            1.7             2.3
Refinancing of PPF no. 57              --              0.5             0.5
Total Base Costs                    3.1             9.4             12.5
Physical. Contingencies             0.2             0.5              0.7
Price Contingencies                 0.6             1.0              1.6
Front-end Fee                       --              0.1              0.1
Total Project Costs            3.9             11.0           14.9



- 25 -
B.  Proiect Financing Plan
USS million
Local          Foreign        Total
Government                             3.9            --              3.9
IBRD                                   --             11.9          11.0
Total                         3.9             11.0           14.9
N.B. In light of unavailability of any financial information on the project, it
is assumed that the Government made its contribution as estimated at appraisal.
Table 5: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned        Revised         Final
Proiect Cycle          HO   Field      HQ   Field     HQ   Field     Comments
Through Appraisal      NA   NA         NA   NA        12.0 13.5
Appraisal through
Board Approval        NA   NA        NA   NA         6.8  4.5
Board Approval
through Effectiveness NA   NA        NA   NA         2.7  17.0
Supervision                                          25.6
TOTAL
NOTE: HQ figures covering appraisal to effectiveness were estimated from HIS
data which date back to FY82. Field and supervision figures were estimated
based on actual mission information contained in the files.



- 26 -
B. Missions
Stage of     Month/    No. of    Staffweeks       Specia-   Performance  Types
Project      Year       Persons   Field  Total   lization  Rating           of
Cycle                                             Represen- Status 2/    Pro-
ted 1/                  blems
Through
Appraisal    11/81           1    1          1    LO        NA              NA
04/82          1    0.5        0.5  LO         NA             NA
06/82          3    2          6    ECON/LO   NA              NA
10/82          3    2          6    ECON/CONS NA              NA
LO/Mission
Leader
Appraisal
thru Board   02/83           2    2         4    LO/Urban  NA               NA
Planner
04/83          1    1          1    ENGINEER  NA              NA
App-
roval thru
Effectiveness04/83           3    3          9    LO/LAWYER NA              NA
DISB.OFFICER
06/83          1    2          2    LO        NA              NA
09/83          2    2          4    LO/ECON   NA              NA
12/83          1    2          2    LO         1              NA
NOTEt  MIS data tend to be more conservative than information available in the
files. Consequently, we have added our own estimates to available MIS data.
1/ LO: Loan Officer; ECON: Economist
21 1: Problem free or minor problems



- 27 -
SUPERVISION
Stage of     Month/    No. of    Staffweeks      Specia-   Performance  Types
Project      Year      Persons   Field  Total   lization  Rating           of
Cycle                                            Represen- Status 2/    Pro-
ted 1/                 blems
Supervision
I            05/84          1    1.0  1.0        ECON      NA           NA
II           08184          1    2.0  2.0        LO        1            NA
III          10/84          1    0.5  0.5        ENGINEER  NA.          NA
IV           10/84          1    2.0  2.0        LO        1            NA
V            02/85          1    0.5  0.5        FIN.ANLST 1            NA
VI           04/85          1    2.5  2.5        LO        1            NA
VII          11/85          2    2.0  4.0        LOIECON   NA           NA
VIII         11/85          1    2.1  2.1        LO        NA           NA
IX           12/85          1    2.0  2.0        LO        NA           NA
X            03/86          3    2.0  6.0        LO/H.EGR/
ECON      NA           NA
XI           03/86          2    0.5  1.0        LO        NA           NA
XII          03/86          1    2.0  2.0        NA        NA           NA
TOTAL                                25.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------_
The first SPN mission identified some problems in the procurement procedures
being followed by the Project Unit to select consultants.   In some cases,
invitations to bid were made using unclear terms of reference and prior to
detailed  Bank's  review.    Recommendations  were  mada  to  correct  these
irregularities. Interestinglv, the consulting firm, which provided the advisory
services to the project management, was not responding at that stage of project
implementation to invitations to make proposals in order to avoid a conflict of
interest.
By the time of the last supervision mission, the Congolese authorities were
scrambling to put together a financial rescue package for the country. Most of
the resident experts under the project had been mobilized to prepare the PAS,
and to participate in its implementation. The mission stressed the urgency of
a stronger program to the Congolese authorities and recommended that all the
Project's remaining funds be allocated to implement the program, and to stop all
activities not directly related to the program.
1/  LO:  Loan Officer; ECON:  Economist; FIN. ANLSTs  Financial Analyst;
H.EGR: Highway Engineer
2/   lt Problem free or minor problems



- 28 -
C. Costs (If available from MIS)
Data is not available from MIS.
Table 6: Proiect Results
Studies
Study                        Purpose at                Status         Impact of
Appraisal                               Study
Strenuthening the
Ministry
of Finance                  Analyze the impact of    Completed       See Key
1. Study on Tax              fiscal measures on a                    Indices
Legislation                  low tax base and                        Table
identify ways of
enlarging it.
2. Diversification of       Analyze the Five Year    Completed         U U
Financial Resources          Plan's proJects'
contribution to State
revenue and make
recommendations to
increase Government
receipts. Analyze
the long-term
contribution of oil
revenues and propose
a tax reform.
3. Preparation of a          Study Congo's role in    Partially      The
Financial Information        the international         completed     brochure
brochure on the Congo        financial market.                       was never
prepared.
Strentthenint the
Ministry of
Plan
Study the                Completed      See Key
4. Diversificatica of        possibilities of                        Indices
Resources (included          diversifying non-oil                    Table
studies on (i) agro-         resources and make
industry and                 recommendations for
foodstuffs; (ii)             every major sector.
livestock production;
(iii) forestry; (iv)
infrastructure and
public works; (v) mines
and hydrocarbons; (vi)



- 29 -
alternative sources of
energy; (vii) fisheries
and pisciculture; (ix)
oil by-products.
4. Study on Recurrent        Identify concepts and    Completed
Costs                        propose appropriate
ratios for recurrent
costs calculation and
analyze their impact
on the State's budget
in specific sectors.
5. Study on the Civil        To review management      Completed
Service                      of civil servants and
propose
recommendations for
improvement.
6. Study on Employment       Study the structure,      Completed
mechanisms and actual
operation of the
labor market and its
long-term potential
up to the year 2000.
7. Study on the              Define the package of    Completed
Promotion of SMEs/SMIs       economic, financial,
legal, institutional
and technical
elements likely to
contribute to the
operational
definition of a
development policy of
SMEs.
8.  Study on Roads           Carry out a thorough      Completed
Investments                  review of the roads
investments program.
9.  Study on Project         Case studies on           Completed
Evaluation                   evaluation of
feasibility studies:
(i) match factory
FALCO in Betou; (ii)
batteries factory
FULCONSA; (iii)
supporting rods
factories FERCO; (iv)
poultry project of
Brazzaville



- 30 -
(SOCALTA); (v)
ammonia-urea
production project
(GAS COBGO); (vi)
profitability study
of a new oil field
(HYDRO-CONGO); (vii)
firewood project;
(viii) savmill plant
SNEB at N'Gongo.
10. Assistance to           Define the data           Completed
CENAGES                     collection needs of
each PE.
11. Development of the      Remove obstacles to       Completed      0
SME sector                  the setting up SMEs.
12. Study on staffing       Study overstaffing        Completed      £
of Public Enterprises       and make
recommendations to
reduce the number of
excess personnel.
13. Strategic Audits of     Audit PEs to              Completed
PEs                         determine which would
be privatised,
liquidated or
rehabilitated.
14. Civil Service           Carry out a census of    Completed       a
census                      all civil servants.
See Part I, Attachment I for comments on the usefulness of these studies.



_ 31 -
Table 7: Compliance with Loan Covenants
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Compliance with Covenants
(as of June 30, 1987)
Section No.     Covenant                                Comments
3.01            The Borrower shall: (i) provide         Met as of 6185 SPN
adequate budgetary                     mission.  There is no
appropriations, in the annual          fu.rther information in
budgets of each of its ministries      the files after that
and agencies responsible for the       date.
execution of any part of the
project, to make available the
funds to be contributed from its
own resources for meeting Project
expenditures;
(iii) appoint and ensure the           Unsatisfactory.
availability of qualified
Congolese professional staff as
required for training activities
under the project.
3.02 (a)        designate in the Ministry of            Project administration
Finance a project coordinator who      particularly in the
shall have overall responsibility      areas of studies and
for coordination of project            consultants was under
execution.                             the supervision of the
Ad-Hoc Committee headed
by a designate of the
Ministry of Finance.
However, the day-to-day
running and financial
administration of the
project was entrusted to
an expatriate consultant
financed under the
project.
(b)        furnish quarterly reports of each      As of 6/85 this covenant
project component to the               was in substantial
coordinator on project                 compliance.
actiivities.                           Verif.'cation of later
compliance has been
inadequate as no
information is
available.



- 32 -
(c)       convene at least semi-annually a       In compliance as of
meeting of the project                 6/85.  No further
coordinator and project                information exists in
participants to review in              the files after that
consultation with the Bank the         date.
status of project activities,
results and recommendations
originating therefrom, and
further action required;
3.03 and        employ consultants and                  In compliance up to
3.04            specialists whose qualifications,       6/85.
experience and terms and
conditions of employment are
satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants and specialists to be      Employment of
selected in accordance with            consultants was
principles and procedures              generally cleared with
satisfactory to the Bank on the        the Bank but some
i'asis of the "Guidelines for the      consultanti were
Use of Consultants by World Bank       recruited using
borrowers and by the World Bank        procedures contrary to
as Executing Agency' published by      Bank guidelines.
the Bank in August 1981 and to be
employed in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 hereto.
3.0¢ *b)       not amend or waive ar.y terms and       Satisfactory.
conditions of employment of
specialists or consultants or
agree to substitution of
personnel without prior agreement
of the Bank.
3.07 (c)        Promptly after completion of the        Not complied with until
project, but in any event not          November 1988.  The
later than six months after the        Government did not agree
Closing Date prepare and furnish       with the conclusions of
the Bank with a completion             the report that had been
report.                                prepared by the former
expatriate Project
Coordinator, and
requested that the Bank
not use the information.
The Government
subsequently furnished a
revised version of the
report in December 1989.
4.02  (a)       maintain separate accounts              Not complied with.  All
adequate to reflect the project's      project accounts were
operations, resources and              maintained by one
expenditures;                          central unit, and there



- 33 -
is no evidence other
executing agencies of
the project were given
their own funds to
manage. The audit
report concludes that
records and procedures
were inadequate for
effective monitoring of
the cost and benefits
derived from the
project.
(b)       have these accounts audited each       The first audit report
fiscal year by independent             of July 1988 was
auditors acceptable to the Bank        rejected by the Bank.  A
and furnished to the Bank within       new audit was performed
four months after the end of such      in late 1989.  The
year#                                  conclusions of the
auditors' report
(February 1990) were
acceptable to the Bank.



- 34 -
;4iI                              I
8   8    8 8  8  8     88
|~~.    g                                              I   ..l | |e   
II                          I I  " i                 x.
Ej     ___. 8    8    8        8         8 888    8i    8i 8  8
3;  3'          i3        ' 
-1i  | 2 | 8  | | | | di
=z1g!9 | | X 2 a  |   I~ g z n x n 
i ~     I      I           1' .1  |^^f&    l         X5 S
I i <      U <    <.   <    <.  <      <<    <. <      <I<  <  <  <
AX Iiix1.}1
I     s       %¢sX
I-       j-- d-----.-----------
UX               ii o                II



- 35 -
2 S   8   8      8  8               a8          s     a 8 8  8  8  a  8 8   8  i8  8
.4 .4~~~~~V
30   8°  8o800   8o°88           888    8 8             °8  8   8
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ p {
---------------------------------------- ---- --
- ----- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -             
-.                                                      - -   - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - o-8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _~~~~
8    8      88      88



- 36 -
-_________ -_------------_----------------------------------_
8.8:8888.88288:8 1    8  s    8*8R8;  8  8    ;  8  8  8  8    8    8  8  E    E  ajR
*  8    3'         8 Y' ii:        ¢       l                                         
.~~~ .
8                8          8    8    c8                    8         8          8      88
I         ~~I  g 
8 88 88   82f88 88 8 8 8888 8:8:8:8:8:o
'8   8        8     8     8                                         -| 0           t  1£5 | |i1  
@II f3  88,83          £f JIl    hU                                                 1 32  3
tl                                                g8                           I  I  i ii§            g||§    
____________________________________________________________
ii 5                              lii   §III
- - -    - - -   -   - -   -  -       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - -   - - - - - - - - - - - 1- - - - - - - - - -
U    U  4  44             4444----------
- -   - - - - - -  -   - -   -   - -  - -   -   - -   -  - -   - -   -   - -  -   - -   - -   -  - -   -



- 37 -
S     3 8   I* |  tl e  S  8  $  7  3 s  t  e 3 t  S  *3   t 1  IR
8~~~~~i is  8 8  8  888sa 3"8 8388818888
.4* ~     .        .  .  .   * .     .   .. . . .
* t   *Et tt                t  t   t  t  t  t      t   k  t
- -   - - -  - - -  - -  -  - -  -    -- - -  -  -  - -      - -
8  8  8      8   8  8  8   e         8        8  8      8
3  5 9, <           i 9j    ' N S; f' ~    I S;U
--- -------------------- ----- ------- -----
@~~~~~~J _ 3      oi33 Rj  s88
,~   ~    -    --------------    ---    ----    -----i      EE|  
e                    8
193; hhhhhhNih 37 j.                         i s   i
i                                           {l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
- - - - - - - - - - -           - - - - - -   - - - - -



- 38 -
Z         I U u it8 I    a a                     a: a1 I I     RS
d . {   g' d  Si ii. i *      i    g 3      i I   Si  da  a
8 8 8  °8s 8 8 8 8 I 8 8    8 8 8. a         88. 8 a    1  8at        8
3 8 288                  a  8 8 a 8°    88 a a                 E 
-F  1    §  t  tI    § t t U   t  t    U  t U  tt U U U  tU   U t
.                        g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
--- -----------------------------------------------------
88.   8  8.         8.     8.                8            8.
a a         It .1*1     il I na  i.ii
j      88         88818     8**8               688           8     8
#~I    111    I§§ -                               131|X 
8   S 8  8 8.°8        88R 8.a   88R3a8   81    88
'@   i  *i     i i  i i   i   5;  3j *  i * ';a
*1* 
_ -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --            --- - - - - -- - - - - - - -
II S
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .s
#@~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                 2
___  _____     l____Ui_____Wiii_______l_________i



- 39 -
! a                     a a    a             i  3  I
.*   .   .   .   .                
8  888  8  8  8  8.8    8  8          8      8  8       4 8 ;11       8  888          S t
i  i l    i  i ;     i  i ;  ;     t I  I  I            I     8     i  a   i    a
.4  9~~~~~~~~~~~C
8.               8      8          8                    8             8           8
8        8. 8  888                  8.88         888           8.8.8.        R8,
--- --------------- --- ------- -----------------------
I                  a                                  a        51
-     -- ----     ---     -       =    -    - =g=              ----------
2  9   9            *1                       a             as
II                            I aInilill 
I  I  I  I  ~~~-------------
~~~  N  I                       -  --   --    -  --   --    --   -



---X-X-X-1-X-X-       ------|--i-|--G---    -- -|--:----  ---
-------------- j ------------------j_ ----------- j---
1I''   1111111
gzz.lnztgg t.                           u
- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -            
-------------- ------------------- ----------- ---
j        iAAA          i                     ;s8sI;
.--------------- ------------------- ------- ---- ---
U   S E   8 8   8}  | |ii i   31 88 S
3 *8 8 88 8888 8F    8  8  |               3 8     8  3 S88
_   _    _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _                                                                                                       
11.&t ~ .I |U UO   I II JX E                         PwziEX*ea a       s       8g|}
__________ ______au~ 



F IF5 1   IF   F   F IF Isp                  FI FI FI FIFa 'I
Io       0   8       a                             I   t                        I
---       -- --   --      ---
---                                             -----   -----     ----       ------    - [--- .
---------------------------- ----------------- ---------
____________________________ ----------------- --------- ---
358|2   8l '| 8 882 |      |             8      |      w88                   |3 2   iii8
8 88 8 88 888 888  8                            8  88388                       288
8         ee1       iY8    8 888      8                         t8 8'
S 8                i   E   £ g       I  §     |  ¢      eN     a  *  a              
e:                 ; I ; IS i   ill!g0   i'I 8     I ;|    i ;   It iI' i           * id    II'   i



- 42 -
"^   S q Sq ^. 8    | t       8 8 Sa    a Begs
8 88 8 8 8 8    8.88,8 8 8 81   8 88888  8 8 8 8.8
S i 3 i 8 * 8    8°8  80a|S|XSl°      
"                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~8
__    8__    ____    __    ___ 8                 88       8    8
--- ----- --------- ----- ------- -----------------
V  ~ ~ ~~~IIa                                  1:  I A 
8.     808    i8   8.8    8.8.8.   8. .         8.8. 8.8.
.4 04                     444         
|  i  Sj    w    lS         !l        § { 3; 3; 3
ji i         Fi NS Ug U            l%Iig
-=Z i    ! S  1 E SS g      pl-
I                ~~~I Ij  II)
II     J~~----------------II



- -- -- -- -- - - - - - - - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- - - - 
----- l---I-J-I-             -i--i-i i----'-'---          ---,---  ---
- ---- - - - - - - - - - - ---- - ----- - -  ----  - ---  b-- -- - -- -- -
111 1 11                     I  '''vi -
- - - - - - - - - --------------    - - ------ -- -  -- ---   --  - - -- -- -
ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
X X     | jX |     |    ;g i      |;        I   iii  iiXl
8    8 i         8         8              8
- - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -~ ~ - - - - - - - -   - - - --a-
- --- ---- -- -- -- -- - -- - - -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - --- -- ---
88   S       S       s    se f a ts    as e              s    e||i   
8 8 8 8      85 8 8                           888    8888
_ _ _    _ _ __ _ _ -  _ _ _- _ _- _a - _            -----  
- £t 



- 44 -
.     .     .     .    .     . .  *  .   .  .   .
.,J  : sss l t ji. a 8W1 8
I~              i              {
8. I    : 8.    8.     8  8.     8,     8,
8       ~~~~8
I--- ----- ---I--- ---I----I------I
8~888      8 8!
LI
I ~~~--------
Ii  1I .,
NI  ~~~  ~~  III         a-~~~



- 45 -
PART III
Attachment II
Page I of 3
Congo Pro1ect Completion Revort
List of Contracts on File
FIRMS                               NAME OF STUDIES
1)   ALPHA-LANGUES                  Assistance & la prdparation de
l'enseignement permanent de l'anglais
organise A la CCA et au CEPI
2)   Arthur D. Little               Missions d'elaboration du contrat de
programme (HYDRO-CONGO)
3)   Arthur D. Little               Elaboration d'une strategie de
dhveloppement du secteur des Petites et
Moyennes Entreprises
4)   Carre, Jean Jacques            Seminaire d'Evaluation des Projets
d'Infrastructure Economique et
Sociale
5)   Centre REC ISA                 Conception et animation de
seminaires de formation des etudes
de marche et commerce
international dans le cadre du
CEPI
6)   C I A T A                      Etude sur l'Emploi
7)   C I A T A                      Etude sur la Diversification des
Ressources
8)   C I A T A                      Statisticien-Economiste
9)   C.G.C.                         Recensement des Agents de l'Etat
10)  C.G.C.                         Inventaire du Patrimoine de l'Etat
li)  Czivis, Otaker                 Mission de coordination de l'assistance
au CEPI



- 46 -
PART III
Attachment II
Page 2 of 3
12)  Demangel, Pierre               Pr6paration du budget 1986 de la
Republique Populaire en la
technique Budget Base Zero'
13)  Demangel, Pierre               Economiste aupras du M&inistere des
Finances
14)  E.S.C.P.                       Mission de formation & l'analyse
Financihre CEPI/C.C.A.
15)  EXI-Export Industries          n.a.
16)  IDET-CEGOS                     Missions d'assistance aupras du
Secretariat G6nhral du Groupe de
Pilotage au PAS
17)  IDET - CEGOS                   Conception et organisation de deux
sdminaires 3Gestion des Stocks' et
Approvisionnement achatsa
18)  IDET-CEGOS                     Coordination des Actions de
Redressement des Entreprises
Publiques
19)  IDET-CEGOS                     Assistance auprbs de la Direction
Centrale des Marches et Contrats de
l'Etat
20)  IDET-CEGOS                     Missions de formation a la micro-
informatique
21)  IDET-CEGOS                     Expertise juridico-financiere pour
la rdalisation des contrats de
programe et Economie et fiscalite
pour la realisation des contrats
de programme
22)  IDET-CEGOS                     Assistance & la CCA dans le
domaine de la gestion de la dette,
du portefeuille et des
investissements
23)  IDET-CEGOS                     Assistance au plan de redressement
de l'ONPT



-47 -
PA2T III
Attachment II
Page 3 of 3
24)  IDET-CEGOS                     Assistance pour la raorganisation
des services de la CCA
25)  IDET-CECOS                     Mission de conseiller financier au
cabinet du Ministre des Finances
et d'appui I la coordination du
programme d'assistance technique
26)  0 R G E C 0                    Appul Technique & la Pr4paration du
Budget de I'Etat
27)  Price Waterhouse               Etudes Strat0giques sur les Industries
du Ciment, les Assurances et 1Q8
Soci4t4s Agro-Industrielles
28)  SEMA METRA CONSEIL             Elaboration d'un cadre de  rdference
d'un canevas commun de diagnostics
stratigiques d'entreprises publiques
29)  S.I.F.O.R.                     Mission de Programmation de formation
30)  Vilsange, Hubert               Assistance au Cenages dans le
cadre du redressement des
Entreprises Publiques
.9~~~~~~~~~



