Document of
The World Bank                                L  UCOF` C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION                   Reo      P3548CO
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$11.OMILLION
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 2, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                             CFAF 355-L/
CFAF1 million                       US$2,817
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CCA      - Congolese external debt management agency
(Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement)
Cadaster - Land Registry Department/Ministry of Public Works
(Cadastre/Ministere des Travaux Publics)
CRETH    - Urban Planning Office/Ministry of Public Works
(Centre de Recherches et d'Etudes Techniques de
l'Habitat/Ministere des Travaux Publics)
DCUH     - Directorate of Construction, Urban Planning and Housing/
Ministry of Public Works
(Direction de la Construction, de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat/
Ministere des Travaux Publics)
SGAT     - Secretariat General of Territorial Administration/Ministry of
Interior
(Secretariat General a l'Administration du Territoire/Ministere
de l'interieur)
S
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc in the ratio of FF1 to
CFAF50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The People's Republic of the Congo.
Amount:                  US$11.0 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.1 million.
Terms:                   17 years, including four years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:    The development objective of the project would be to
help improve through institution-building the quality
of the Government's public finance management and the
execution of its urban infrastructural investment
program. This ranks amongst Congo's highest
priorities given the needs to control the effects of
its current petroleum boom, reduce the financial drain
of the public enterprise system and promote growth in
the productive sectors of its predominantly urban-
based economy.
The public finance sub-project would include the
provision of 16.5 staff-years of expatriate resident
specialists, 120 months of short-term consulting
services, 66 months of training and related local
expenditures. It would seek to (i) improve the
management by the Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement of
existing external indebtedness and the acquisition of
new borrowings on terms appropriate to each
development project, (ii) increase the Ministry of
Finance's capacity to make as required short-term
adjustments in public finance operations and to
resolve structural problems vitally affecting medium-
term public finance prospects, and (iii) increase the
Ministry's capacity to manage the Government's
financial relationship with Congo's public enterprise
system.  The project would also refinance PPF No. 57
which supported the analysis of data and the design of
systems needed to prepare the sub-project.
The urban sub-project would comprise 20 staff-years of
resident specialists, 60 months of consulting
services, 20 months of training and related local
expenditures aimed to (i) increase the capacity of
municipal and central Government technical services to
maintain existing urban infrastructure and to
implement new projects in Congo's 1982-86 Development
Plan, and (ii) increase municipal revenues and improve
their financial management so as to support required
maintenance work and investment programs. About 15
percent of the proposed loan would finance activities
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



li
to be identified in agreement with the IBRD and in
accordance with mutually agreed criteria during
project implementation which serve project objectives.
Benefits and risks:      The main benefits of the proposed project would be the
development of staff expertise and management systems
required to maintain over the medium-term a sound
public financial position in the Congo's petroleum
boom economy and to increase the absorptive capacity
to implement urban infrastructural investments
required for economic growth. The principal risks
associated with achieving the project's aims involve
possible delays in providing qualified expatriate
resident specialists, difficulty in recruiting and
retaining Congolese staff, and the Government's
response to the project's policy and program
recommendations. Agreement has been reached with the
Government on measures designed to mitigate these
risks, including early recruitment of resident
specialists and staffing continuity from an earlier
UNDP project, commitments in the provision of related
Congolese staff and facilities, and regular reviews of
authorities concerned in consultation with the Bank of
the progress of project implementation as well as the
recommendations and results arising from specific
activities. Nevertheless, the project is only one
step toward improving public sector management and
follow-up assistance, especially for public enterprise
management, should be anticipated.



iii
Estimated Costs:
(Exempt of taxes and duties)
US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
Public Financial Management
External debt management                    0.3          1.1         1.4
Public finance analysis/Policy-advice       0.3          1.0         1.3
Public enterprise financial analysis
and contrat-programmes                      0.5          1.7         2.2
sub-total                              1.1          3.8        4.9
Urban Investment Programming and Management
Urban development planning                  0.1          0.4         0.5
Investment control                          0.1          0.2         0.3
Urban management                            1.2          2.8         4.0
sub-total                              1.4          3.4    , "4.8
Activities to be identified                     0.6          1.7         2.3-
Refinancing of PPF NO.57                           -         0.5         0.5
Total Base Costs                            3.1          9.4        12,5
Physical Contingencies                      0.2          0.5         0.7
Price Contingencies                         0.6          1.0         1.6
Front-end Fee                                -           0.1         0.1
Total Project Costs                         3.9         11.0        14.9
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Totai
Government                                      3.9            -         3.9
IBRD                                             -          11.0        11.0
TOTAL                                       3.9         11.0        14.9
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
FY84     FY85      FY86     FY87
Annual                                        1.5       3.5      3.5       2.5
Cumulative                                    1.5       5.0      8.5      11.0
Rate of Return: N.A.
There is no separate appraisal report.
Map: IBRD 13959 R






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of the Congo for the equivalent of US$11.0 million to
help finance a Technical Assistance Project.  The IBRD loan to the Government
would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. The Government would contribute US$3.9 million
4        equivalent to cover local costs.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report entitled "People's Republic of the Congo-
Economic Trends, Current Issues, and Prospects" (Report No. 2213-COB) was
distributed to the Board on June 8, 1979. Its conclusions and the findings of
more recent economic missions are integrated into this report.
otructure and Potential
3.       With a population of about 1.6 million (1981 estimate) over an area
of about 340,000 km2, the Congo occupies a strategic position on a transport
corridor that reaches into Central Africa and provides the region with access
to the Atlantic Ocean at the country's second largest city, Pointe Noire.
Congo is prominent in Africa for its high urbanization (50 percent of the
population) and high school enrollment at all levels. The growth of per
capita GNP, which was modest prior to 1972, accelerated with the increase of
oil production since that year and by 1980 had reached about US$900 (estimated
by Bank Atlas method).
4.       Until recently, the country has relied for growth on forestry, import
substitution manufacturing, transit and other transport services, and trade.
While agriculture is still the most important sector in terms of employment,
absorbing about 35-40 percent of the economically active population, its share
in the national product has always been small and declining and now directly
accounts for less than 10 peroent of GDP.  Timber production, which provided
the bulk of exports during the late 1960s and the early 1970s and was a major
stimulant for the transport seotor, underwent a temporary decline in the mid-
1970s.  Owing to depletion of readily accessible southern forestry resources
and marketing problems, the performance of This seotor has not yet recovered
to its previous high level. During the second half of the 1970s, petroleum
production has become the most important contributor to the economy in terms
of value added. The level of gross value added in mining rose from 3 percent
of GDP in 1972 to more than 35 percent in 1981 (estimate).
5.       Given a favorable natural resources endowment relative to its size of
population and already high adult literacy and secondary school enroliment
rates, the country's development potential is promising, although there are
numerous basic constraints in the short and medium-term. Agricultural and
northern forestry resources remain largely unexploited. Little is known about



2
the precise magnitude of the Congo's non-oil mineral wealth, and the petroleum
potential itself ls not yet fully explored. The country's river-rail-port
transport system, operated by the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
(ATC), needs further improvement and expansion to benefit the country as well
as neighboring countries; the rail and river systems are being improved under
ongoing IDA projects. The country's deteriorated and over-whel,mingly
inadequate road network presents major constraints to development in
agriculture and forestry.  Rehabilitation and development of transport
infrastructure in the interior, a major Government objective for current and
future investments, is seen as a means both to improve eoonomic and
communication links between the urban areas and the population of the
hinterland, and to open up what has been the economic backwaters for better
exploitation of available forestry and mineral resources as well as the
existing potential  for agrioulture.
Past Performance
6.       In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the Government nationalized a
number of important private enterprises, and it engaged in new industrial
ventures financed mainly by suppliers' credits. The parapublic sector, with
about 65 enterprises, is now prominent in modern agriculture, manufacturing
and some services, though petroleum exploitation has been carried out by two
majority foreign-owned companies and private interests are still active in
forestry. The agricultural strategy has been focussed on the promotion of
state farms much to the detriment of private smallholder agriculture.  Private
investments (except in the petroleum sector) stagnated following the progress
of nationalization measures, whioh made investment opportunities in
manufacturing less promising, and the future business conditions in general
became uncertain for foreign and domestic private investors. The rapid
expansion of the public sector proved to be muoh less successful than was
hoped for. Public enterprises did not have enough working capital or skilled
staff to maintain operational efficiency even when projects themselves were
well conceived. Overemployment in these enterprises also contributed to their
financial and operational decline.
7.       In these circumstances, Government financial support of public
enterprises as well as the general expansion of public sector employment, by
the beginning of the 1970s appeared to be leading to an unsustainable rate of
current public expenditure and insufficient allocation of domestic resources
for productive investment. The rise in oil production in 1973/74 zogether
with the quadrupling of oil prices not only temporarily eased the oountry's
overall financial situation but dramatically raised expectations and made
external financing more readily available. Consequently, investment programs
were stepped up in very substantial measure; but even before completion of
some of the major new projects, the country's resource position was suddenly
reversed again.  Starting in 1975, extraction problems of the main oil field
brought about a 25 percent drop in crude oil production. As a result of this
and other developments, real GDP fell by an average 2.5 percent a year during
1975-77 and the country entered a period of severe financial crisis.
8.       Although the Government in 1975-78 managed to restrain public
investments, it was not successful in carrying out needed reductions in public
consumption. During this period, treasury deficits averaged about 27 percent
of current revenues, or about 7-8 percent of GDP. After exhausting most



3
financing sources--including substantial net borrowing from bilateral sources
and the oil companies--additional domestic arrears totaling about 20 billion
CFAF, or 35 percent of budgetary revenues in 1978, were accumulated between
1975-1978. On the external accounts, the situation deteriorated in a similar
degree, with the current account deficit reaching 24 percent of GDP in 1978.
As this could not be covered by external capital or use of reserves, the
equivalent of US$65 million stood in arrears for principal and interest by
end-1 978.
Stabilization and Recent Developments
9.       A set of financial stabilization measures were undertaken toward
successful implementation of the 1979 IMF Second Tranche Standby Program.
Government's actions included efforts to obtain rescheduling of debt service
obligations, compressing public demand and implementing selective tax
increases. By the end of this one year Standby period, the resurgence of oil
revenues permitted a significant reduction in the accumulated arrears, and
enabled the Government to keep new foreign commercial loans within the limit
agreed in the program while restraining public current expenditures.
10.      The 1979 and 1980 increases in crude oil prices have had a dual
effect on the Congo's resource position. Combined with the renewed growth in
the volume of oil output, the immediate financial consequence was a dramatic
increase of oil export revenues from US$213 million in 1978 to an estimated
US$1.0 billion in 1982, resulting in a favorable balance of payments position
and rapidly growing budgetary revenues. More importantly, higher prices have
also accelerated the exploration and development of deposits previously
considered marginal because of high development costs. Oil companies have
been executing investment plans to develop new fields by about 1983 and
available exploration data suggest that prospects for continued investment in
oil production thereafter remain reasonably favorable. Should this
preliminary assessment prove accurate, oil production from already producing
or explored fields alone could rise steadily until 1985, achieving a level
more than double the 1980 output of 3.3 million tons and gradually decreasing
thereafter. Consequently, the country should now be in a much better position
to further improve its overall public sector financial situation and to
execute an appropriate public investment program.
Medium-term Prospects and Investment Program
11.      While the growth in recent years of oil production has notably
accelerated Congo's overall growth of per capita GDP, per capita income
generated by non-oil sectors has increased at less than one percent per year
over the last twenty years. In the face of a new, sustained petroleum boom,
the major medium and long-term issue for the Congo is how to transform the
proceeds of its oil wealth into higher, sustained growth of the non-oil
economy if it is to avoid substantial contraction of its national income in
the late 1980's. It must both stimulate growth in the non-oil productive
sectors and improve its physical and social infrastructure in support of that
growth, while minimizing if not eliminating the drain of the public enterprise
system on the country's financial resourses.
12.      A Five-Year Development Plan for 1982-86 was approved by the
Government early in 1982. The overall target for public investments is set at



4
CFAF 1100 billion ($3.2 billion) implying an average investment rate of about
43 percent of 1981 GDP, compared with an average rate of 15-20 percent
achieved in the previcus five years.  The Government recognizes, however, that
such a program cannot prudently be financed unless oil revenues turn out
substantially higher than presently foreseen, and that absorptive capacity and
external debt capacity will be major determinants in the setting of realistic
annual targets.  Thus, the Plan is essentially of an indicative nature and the
law provides for its annual revision. This is being carried out in the light
of changes in prospective oil revenues and, in relation to these, of the
implicit future debt charges of new borrowings abroad. Recent discussions
with the Government indicate that these revisions are designed on the basis of
realistic assessment of the country's resources and absorptive capacity.
13.      Regarding the sectoral composition of the Plan, its principal thrust
is in physical infrastructure, and specifically, in investments outside the
Brazzaville - Pointe Noire urban corridor.  The strategy seems to be, in
implicit recognition of the severe short-term limitations on the absorptive
capacity of the commodity producing sectors, to capture the opportunity of the
sudden and perhaps short-lived oil wealth, to set the stage for a desired
reversal of the historic trends of migration to the cities, and for creation
of better economic opportunities for agricultural and other activities in the
more distant regions.
14.      About 60 percent of the indicative Plan investments are allocated to
areas outside the major cities and to projects, mainly roads, to oonnect the
urban corridor with the large and sparsely populated interior in the north.
Many rural programs for social infrastructure, water, energy and public
administration appear overscaled and lacking economic justification. About 36
percent of Plan investments are allocated to agriculture, forestry and
industry. Except in forestry, prime emphasis is given to investments in the
state enterprise sector, even though the performance of that sector has
consistently been discouraging. The majority of these enterprises have
suffered chronic operating deficits and none has been able to finance needed
new investments from retained earnings. Programs for the rehabilitation of
public enterprises and creation of new ones are large, -though the plan of
action so far seems to consist mainly of a reinjection of funds, and more
concrete measures to reduce over-employment, rationalize pricing, and improve
management and accounting, remain in most cases to be worked out.
Sectoral Development and Policies
_                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)
15.      The Government's efforts to develop the agriculture sector have
produced poor results. State farms and ranches have been the main instrument
for the promotion of food and livestock production. They have been poorly
run, however, and their continued operation requires subsidies. Their
operating efficiency has been adversely affected by inefficient state
marketing organizations.  At the same time, the activities of nationalized
agro-industrial enterprises have seen a dramatic fall. Partly because of
these failures, and partly because of the ready availability of foreign
exchange recently, there appears to have been increasing reliance on imported
foodstuffs. The current Government policies in this sector do not envisage
significant departures from the past, and limited attempts to revitalize
smallholde-r food crop production and cash crop production, coffee and cocoa,
are not yet producing an adequate impact.



5
16.      Industrial activities have expanded modestly, largely owing to the
small domestic market. Exceptions to this are wood processing, textile, and
beverage production where foreign participation piLays an important role. The
country possesses a good potential for agro-industrial development based on
locally produced raw materials including forestry resources. Government
policy in these areas is becoming more open than before in accommodating
foreign investments and management contracts needed to supplement yet limited
domestic entrepreneurial and managerial skills. The growth of smaller and
less formal industrial activities has been very limited as the state
enterprise sector continues to receive Government priority, a process that has
tended to stifle what limited domestic entrepreneurship would have been
available. The Government will need to formulate more specific measures to
encourage this sector which also constitutes a key area for longer-term
generation of productive urban employment.
17.      In urban areas, where 80 percent of Congo's GDP originates, improved
infrastructure will be indispensable for the growth of urban-located
productive sectors and their labor force. At present, power distribution,
urban roads, and water and sewerage systems are highly inadequate and partly
derelict. The main constraint at present is lack of institutional capacity to
execute and maintain existing and new facilities.
18.      Transport and communications, service and trade activity continues to
account for a significant share of GDP (24 percent in 1980) and major public
investments with assistance from external official agencies were made during
the seventies to maintain and upgrade the system which is now operated by
ATCo Completion of the CFCO re-alignment expected in 1984 will result in
significant expansion of the Congo's transportation network. Outside this
corridor, however, communications are very poor.
Creditworthiness
19.      The Congo's outstanding public external debt (excluding undisbursed)
is estimated to have reached about CFAF 444 billion (or about US$1,288
million) by end-1982. The debt service ratio is estimated at about 22.6
percent for 1982, and is expected to increase to almost 30 precent in 1983,
following the recent adverse price movements for petroleum, and to stabilize
thereafter at about 25 percent.  External debt service obligations are being
met satisfactorily and there have been improvements in handling these matters
in the Govenment budgetary process. Gross international reserves were
restored to a level of seven weeks equivalent of goods and non-factor services
imports early in 1982, but they have declined by more than half since then.
The current level of reserves is still satisfactory given the Congo membership
in the Central African Monetary Union and the importance of oil sector imports
for which the necessity of official reserves is marginal.
20.      The outlook regarding the future creditworthiness of the country
depends on the assessment of additional future petroleum production from
possible new fields, the Government's ability and willingness to tune
development programs to changing circumstances, and its performance in
managing the public sector financial affairs. Recent macro-economic
discussions with the Government led to an understanding that the 1983/84
public investment program should for the time being remain significantly below



6
the indicative targets of the Plan; that its subsequent expansion, if any,
should be contingent on an upward revision of future prospects of oil exports;
and that the annual review of the Government's financing plan should be guided
by ceilings on the ratio of annual debt service to future Government current
receipts. Pursuance of these policies would be a major factor towards
ensuring the country's long-term creditworthiness. Given these developments,
and in light of the relative firmness of present projections of oil output and
oil revenues from existing fields, and of the progress to date in again
bringing order into the system of public finances, the country is considered
creditworthy for the loan proposed in this report.  The country's prospects,
investment performance and overall creditworthiness will continue to be
closely monitored.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CONGO
21.      The Bank Group's commitments in the Congo now amount to US$175.2
million from five bank loans (US$101.4 million) and ten IDA credits (US$73.8
million). Ten loans and credits totalling US$89.8 million have been fully
disbursed. Past operations have been designed mainly to assist the country's
efforts to improve its basic transport infrastructure, better exploit its
natural resources, and upgrade the educational system. Rail, river and road
transport represent the largest share of past commitments (64 percent),
followed by mining and petroleum (22 percent). Annex II contains a summary
statement of Loans and Credits as of March 31, 1983, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Several projects in Congo have incurred
problems in implementation, which have sometimes centered around the project's
design and more often around institutional weaknesses of the entity executing
the project. Annual disbursement rates for Congo have shown a substantial
improvement over the last five years and now compare favorably with other
countries.
22.      In addition to the realignment of the CFCO railway under the Second
Railway Project, ongoing projects consist of: an education project which
focusses on improving the quality of the educational system and reorienting it
to meet the country's human resource needs; a petroleum technical assistance
project to improve sector management; a river transport project designed to
increase the efficiency and capacity of river transport services and a highway
maintenance project to increase farm-to-market access and the efficiency of
road maintenance operations. With the recent conversion of the Bank's lending
terms from IDA to IBRD, a new country strategy has been designed which aims to
assist the Congo to maintain its creditworthiness and to transform its growing
petroleum revenues into a broad productive base for sustained economic
growth. The project proposed in this report is a fundamental part of the
implementation of this strategy. In addition, a proposed Wood-Processing
Project under preparation is mainly designed to increase the exploitation of
the country's timber resources as a means to diversify its exports, promote
regional development and help to ensure that the projected timber traffic for
the rail and river transport system materializes as anticipated. Sector and
project preparation work are underway in anticipation of Bank support in
Congo's key non-oil productive sectors, industry and agriculture, and in vital
water supply infrastructure.
23.      On April 14, 1981, the IFC approved its first loan to the Congo
totalling US$3.5 million to support a US$15.6 million project to modernize the



7
existing veneer plant of Placongo and to expand its logging capacity.  IFC's
investment consists of a US$0.5 million loan convertible at IFC's option into
equity shares of the company and an additional loan of US$3.0 million.
Implementation of the project is currently delayed as the company has decided
to delay expansion of production capacity until such time as it has been able
to reorganize its capital structure. IFC also approved an equity
participation in a promotional company which is currently studying the
feasibility of establishing a pulp mill in Congo. Results in the study are
*      expected to be available later in 1983.
24.      Throughout 1976-81, gross international public capital inflows
(including debt refinancing and budgetary support) amounted to about US$680
million. At the end of 1982, the outstanding disbursed debt stood at US$1,288
million, of which 10.3 percent (US$133 million) was held by the Bank and
IDA. The Bank's and IDA's share in the public debt service is estimated at
2.8 percent for 1982 and an average 2.1 percent over the 1983-87 period.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
25.      The country's recent public finance history is characterized by
substantial ups and downs in budgetary revenues. Government expenditure and
external indebtedness policies have, however, tended to amplify short-term
upward swings in resources with a minimum of attention to longer-term economic
needs or to financial prudence. For example, budgetary revenues doubled
between 1973 and 1975 as a result of Congo's first petroleum boom. Yet when
such revenues fell in 1975 due to technical failure in the oilfields, the
treasury deficit expanded fivefold to nearly half of total revenues and
plunged the country into a financial crisis resulting in large public sector
domestic and external payment arrears. A resurgence of petroleum production
and the increase in oil prices since 1980 have subsequently brought about a
dramatic turnabout in the country's public financial condition.
26.      Some lessons were learned during the liquidity crisis of the later
1970s and efforts subsequently made to better equip the Ministry of Finance to
resist pressures for accelerated expenditures and to manage a rational policy
of external borrowings. In particular, a first step was taken via a Bank-
executed UNDP-financed project to improve the performance of the Congo's
external debt management agency, the Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement
(CCA). The basic aims of that project, to reorganize the CCA and to make a
full inventory of and computerize its debt data, have largely been achieved as
scheduled.  The external debt pertaining to the central Government and debt
service projections may now be reviewed as required, inter alia for budgeting
purposes or to determine the incremental impact of new debt financing
proposals. The project has also helped the Government to adopt a policy of
ceilings on the ratio of annual debt service to projected Government fiscal
receipts.
27.      Measured against the public finance management effort required,
however, the Government's institutional capacity in this area remains very
limited. The OCA is not as yet in a position, for example, to clearly
interpret the implications of the country's debt profile or current capital
market trends. It consequently lacks the means to develop the most
advantageous borrowing strategies and to clearly formulate policies within the
country's debt capacity. The CCA must also better assert its legally mandated



8
role in the examination of financing proposals and in their negotiation. At
present, in the absence of the expertise and analytical systems required, it
is confined to playing a largely passive role in this process. This frequently
results in excessive costs of new indebtedness, inappropriate terms and an
insupportable debt burden for the project entity (and ultimately the
Government).
28.      The information and analytical systems currently used in che Ministry
also substantially curtail its ability to make short-term financial
adjustments.  Regular data an budget receipts and expenditures is weak and                    a
sporadic, cash flow plans to assure liquidity are not clearly designed and the
country's external payments and credit position is not adequately monitored.
In addition, these and other public finance parameters are only infrequently
scrutinized together to formulate or revise policies. Issues vital to long-
term public finance prospects are similarly difficult to address. While the
Studies and Planning Department in the Ministry can identify the inherent
problems in overreliance on petroleum revenues, and rapid expansion in public
personnel and recurrent costs, it lacks the skills and experience to begin to
confront them.
29.      The difficulties in managing public finances are compounded by the
Congo's large public enterprise system (paras. 14-16) which, among other
things, has an important influence on the Government's debt management and the
growth of its operating budget. In 1983, the Government is scheduled to pay
CFAF 16 billion in external debt service on behalf of public enterprises (14
percent of total repayments). Other forms of subsidies to the system are
difficult to determine with precision, but are clearly substantial. While the
CCA is expected to oversee the Government's financial relationships with the
public enterprise system, even its basic information on existing Government
guarantees of public enterprise debt is incomplete. Its capacity is even more
limited to monitor enterprises' financial condition and develop policies,
inter alia, on appropriate relending terms for funds passed on from the
Government. Given the current pressures on the Government's public financial
system brought about by the petroleum boom, the CCA and Ministry of Finance
are in urgent need of reinforcement in all these areas to maintain fiscal
prudence.
30.      Many of the general problems of absorbing and utilizing petroleum
revenues are found within the urban sector. The main issue is how to best use
such revenues to build up a productive base which can sustain economic growth
when oil revenues decline. The importance of addressing this issue
specifically in the urban-based sectors -- infrastructure, basic services and
industry -- stems from the unusually high level of concentration of population
and production in these areas of Congo. Fifty-five percent of the population
lives in settlements over 5,000 persons, most of this in Brazzaville (440,000)
and Pointe Noire (200,000) and 80 percent of GDP is urban-based.
31.      Given the relatively advanced state of urbanization in the Congo,
both the efficient functioning of Brazzaville and Pointe Noire as investment
environments and their productivity as active generators of economic growth
are likely to be important factors in the transition to more diversified
economic growth. A review of urban infrastructure and shelter indicates tha-t
the most urgent priorities are, in order, drainage and sanitation, roads,
water supply, and electricity. Urban growth has occurred without adequate



9
attention to physical planning or infrastructure investment. The resulting
low-density, scattered pattern of growth with major infrastructure
deficiencies in the two major cities is now beginning to increase the cost of
economic activity.
32.      The current five-year plan, adopted in December 1981 for the 1982-
1986 period, includes some CFAF 21 billion (US$ 62 million) for urban
infrastructure, CFAF 21 billion (US$ 62 million) for water and electricity
supply (including equipment purchase) and CFAF 21 billion (US$ 62 million) for
land development and housing. These amounts represent a ten-fold increase in
the level of investment over previous years. In relation to the needs of
these sub-sectors, however, these amounts are very low and a surprisingly
small share (6%) of total Plan investment considering the percentage of
population and GDP located in urban areas.
33.      The relatively low share of proposed urban investment, however, is
not the major constraint to improved conditions in the urban sector. The
central issue is the weak absorptive capacity of institutions responsible for
urban investment and management. Responsibility for urban investment has
recently been shifted from the Ministry of Public Works to the municipalities,
under the administrative supervision of the Ministry of Interior. The
municipalities, however, lack the technical staff, equipment, organization and
financial base to perform the key functions of the investment process: a)
technical studies and preparation, b) implementation, c) operations and
maintenance, and d) monitoring and coordination. It is therefore unlikely
that urban investment plans will be executed efficiently as anticipated
without external assistance.
34.      In addition, even if Plan investment targets were met, there is a
lack of financial planning necessary to provide revenues to maintain urban
infrastructure. Detailed analysis of the municipal finances of Brazzaville
and Pointe Noire demonstrates that local revenues have declined in real terms
over the 1976-1980 period despite annual population increases of 5 to 6% per
annum. Parallel action is therefore required in improving municipal finance
in order to avoid further deterioration of existing infrastructure and obtain
maximum benefits from proposed new urban investment to be carried out in the
Plan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.      The proposed project was identified in 1982 during a review with the
Government of the Congo's 1982-86 Development Plan. It was subsequently
prepared by the Government, consultants and Bank staff under a Bank-executed
UNDP-financed project, PPF No. 57 and an urban sector memorandum. The project
was appraised in February 1983 and negotiations held in Washington on
April 26, 1983. The Congolese delegation was led by Mr. Bienvenue Voudibio,
Charge d'Affaires of the Congolese Embassy in Washington. There is no
separate appraisal report for the project. Key events and special conditions
are listed in Annex III.



10
Project Objectives and Description
36.      The principal aim of the project would be to help improve through
institution-building the quality of the Government's public finance management
and the execution of its urban infrastructural investment program. The
immediate objectives over a four-year period of the public finance sub-project
would be to
(a) improve the management by the Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement
of existing external indebtedness and the acquisition of new
borrowings on terms appropriate to each development project,
(b) increase the Ministry of Finance's capacity to make as required
short-term adjustments in public finance operations and to
resolve structural problems vitally affecting medium-term public
finance prospects, and
(c) increase the Ministry's capacity to manage the Government's
financial relationship with Congo's public enterprise system.
The project would also refinance PPF No. 57 which supported the analysis of
data and the design of systems needed to prepare the sub-project.
37.      The immediate aims of the proposed urban development sub-project are
to:
(a) increase the capacity of technical services in the central
Government and main municipalities, to maintain existing urban infrastructure
and execute new projects in Congo's 1982-86 Development Plan; and
(b) increase municipal revenues and impro-ve financiai management
systems so as to enable them to meet the costs of maintaining infrastructure
and partially finance their investment programs.
38.      External Debt Management.  With a new organizational structure and
debt information system, the CCA staff now need to develop their skills in the
proper management of the public debt portfolio and acquisition of new debt.
The project thus provides for the collaboration of the staff in the Debt and
Investment Divisions with resident expatriate specialists in debt, financial
analysis and legal affairs (7.5 years of total services) to (a) develop a
quarterly debt reporting system analyzing the external debt profile and
articulating a public sector borrowing strategy within the country's debt
capacity, (b) generate an ability in the CCA to assess the repayment capacity
and define appropriate financing terms for development projects requiring debt
or guarantees; and (c) prepare and negotiate legal documents for international
transactions. The project would also finance 21 months of formal training in
financial analysis and commercial capital markets analysis and 6 months of
consulting services of a specialist in capital markets through a twinning
arrangement with an appropriate commercial financial institution.
39.      Public finance analysis.  Key factors which limit the Ministry of
Finance's capacity to better manage the Congo's public finances are the
absence of sound statistical and monitoring systems, and the expertise to
analyze their implications and formulate policy. These are weaknesses of
substantial concern as the Ministry must manage in an uncertain international
economy fiscal operations some five times the level of only four years ago.
The project would thus support a program to upgrade information systems and
analytical practices, in particular aimed to better monitor the financial
execution of the Government's operating and investment budgets, improve
liquidity management, and follow trends in the country's external payments and



credit position. The resident expertise of a macro-economist and public
finance specialist (4.5 years), short-term consulting services (24 months) and
formal training programs (30 months) in public finance management would be
financed for these purposes. These resources would also be used to develop a
public finance model designed to help analyze different policy approaches as
well as address structural issues vital to medium-term public finance
prospects. This studies program would at the outset focus upon seeking ways
of diversifying the Government's fiscal receipts away from petroleum,
estimating the recurrent cost impact of the public investment program,
preparing long-term debt capacity analyses and examining factors underlying
the growth in public administration salaries.
40.      Public enterprises.  The poor performance of the Congo's public
enterprise system (paras. 14-16) combined with poor information in the
Ministry of Finance on their financial condition has made public finance and
debt management all the more difficult. The project would thus help the CCA
collect and analyze basic financial data of public enterprises, then gradually
build an information system to monitor public enterprises' basic financial
condition and to evaluate requests for new debt or guarantees. This would
parallel actions now underway in many enterprises to improve accounting and
auditing systems.  It would also assist in the preparation of subsidiary loan
and guarantee agreements and policies for frequently undefined obligations
between the Government and enterprises. A total of 4.5 years of resident
expertise in financial analysis and legal affairs and 9 months of formal
training in public enterprise financial analysis are included as external
inputs in the project for these purposes. In addition, the project would help
to take a first step toward clarifying the financial and operating
relationships between the Government and selected public enterprises. It
would finance the preparation under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance of
short-term diagnostic studies of key financial and operating problems for
several public utility and service companies (water, power, communications,
and transport). This would be followed by the preparation, negotiation and
supervision of contracts, or contrat-programmes, between the Government and
the enterprise defining their respective rights and responsibilities,
particularly regarding management and investment decisions, tariff and subsidy
policies, and rehabilitation programs. The project includes 18 months of
consulting services per enterprise for this process. These exercises are also
expected to serve in the preparation of a public enterprise rehabilitation
project which would finance the subsequent capital needs of one or two of
these companies.
41.      Urban Investments and Finance.  The municipalities of Congo's two
main cities have in the past poorly performed routine responsibilities such as
maintenance of roads, drainage and sewerage networks and garbage collection.
Additional problems have arisen from the recent transfer of responsibilities
for new urban investment from the Ministry of Public Works to the Ministry of
Interior and the quality of municipal management is gradually becoming a
critical issue. The project would thus provide a total of 10 years of
resident expertise and complementary consulting services to aid both
municipalities to (a) reorganize the service departments performing these
tasks and improve supervision of their work, (b) ensure proper vehicle and
equipment maintenance, and (c) improve cost control and accounting. This
would be reinforced by assistance to the Ministry's Secretariat for
Territorial Administration (SGAT), whose staff is primarily experienced in



12
civil administration and lacks adequate training to efficiently exercise its
new oversight responsibility for urban investments. The project would provide
six staff years of resident expertise to help SGAT to (a) monitor agreed work
programs implemented by the municipalities, and (b) assist the municipalities
to establish legal and institutional measures to improve the mobilization of
local resources and financial management.  The project would also assist the
Land Registry Department (Cadastre) in the Ministry of Public Works in order
to increase the collection of land taxes, which is a major potential source of'
municipal revenue. Collections are currently extremely low due largely to a
faulty land registration system. The project would finance up to 20 months of
consultancy services, as well as minor equipment to help update and expand the
registration and collection systems.
42.      The sub-project would also focus upon the improvement of overall
urban planning and policy-making. The Urban Planning Office (CRETH) in the
Ministry of Public Works has demonstrated competence in laying the technical
groundwork for investment planning, but has yet to secure a firm participation
in the urban development decision-making process. Enhancing CRETH's
competence by introducing expertise in economic and financial affairs is
compelling to help develop an efficient urban investment portfolio. The
project would provide two years of technical assistance to help CRETH to (i)
assess the economic aspects and financial viability of proposals and (ii)
reprogram urban investments during periodic review exercises of Congo's 1982-
86 Plan. The Ministry's policy and regulatory department, DCUH, has long been
hampered by a lack of adequately trained personnel and general
understaffing. Though the staffing problems are gradually being overcome,
adequate training is still an issue. The project would provide 20 months of
expertise and related consulting services to assist and train DCUH staff to
(i) improve the existing land use, zoning and urban planning regulations, and
(ii) increase the effectiveness of project coordination and monitoring
procedures.
43.      Additional Activities.  About 15 percent of the envisaged loan and
total estimated costs would be reserved at the outset for activities
identified during project implementation. Such activities would be determined
in accordance with criteria agreed with the Government which would mainly
ensure that they would further enlarge the Government's institutional capacity
to manage its public finances and execute urban infrastructural investments.
Project Organization and Execution
44.      Overall responsibility for the project would be assured by the
Minister of Finance.  His Directeur de Cabinet would under his general.
direction assure day-to-day project management and coordination (Section 3.02
(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Terms of reference have been agreed upon to
this effect. He would be assisted by the senior resident specialist (in
public finance) who would also be attached to the Minister's cabinet and has
experience with Bank procedures. They would be supported by two full time
national staff in the Cabinet. Together they would (a) monitor project
implementation to ensure a continuing focus on project objectives, (b) carry
out the project's financial and personnel administration, (c) ensure
application of Bank guidelines and other provisions of the Loan Agreement and
(d) coordinate the programming of funds for activities to be identified. The
implementation and progress reporting for activities under each component of



13
the two sub-projects would be the direct responsibility of the department
director concerned.
45.      Detailed terms of reference for all resident specialists have been
agreed upon and four of the specialists for the public finance sub-project are
already on the job under PPF financing. Each department would be responsible
for the recruitment of the remaining resident specialists supported by the
Project coordinator. Candidates for the resident specialist positions
selected on the basis of their curriculum vitae would, as appropriate, visit
Congo for interviews prior to recruitment and the associated cost would be
financed by the project. Their contracts would include allowances for
housing, a vehicle and local travel. The Bank's approval of contracts for
resident specialist assignments and training programs would be subject to
Government having made available the required Congolese professional and
support personnel and related office facilities (Section 3.01 (b) (ii) and
(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement). Short-term consultants would be selected
with the assistance of the resident specialists.
46.      The detailed preparation and supervision of the studies and training
programs identified would be carried out with the assistance of resident
specialists financed under the proposed project. They would be subject to
prior approval by the Bank based upon supporting documentation which would
include a detailed justification, plan of execution, and supporting services
to be provided (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.      Skill requirements of Congolese staff and training program
alternatives have been identified. In general, formal training in project
financial analysis, capital markets analysis and public finance would first be
carried out in overseas institutions, then continued via seminars to be held
locally. The project provides for a training coordinator to ensure that
formal and on-the-job training programs maintain their high priority during
project implementation and their effectiveness. He would be responsible for
the detailed programming of training, supervision of its execution, evaluation
of results and follow-up. Terms of reference to this effect have been agreed
upon and the coordinator has begun work under PPF financing.
48.      The Government would make explicit provisions in its annual budgets
for funds sufficient to support the project's Congolese staff and associated
costs (Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.      The Minister of Finance would call a meeting at least semi-annually
f       of those responsible for each project component and other senior government
staff to review progress reports. Such meetings would in particular review in
consultation with the Bank the status of project activities and consider the
results of each project component, keeping account of the investments made,
staff newly trained, policies developed and institutional changes produced
(Section 3.02 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
50.      The project would include the provision of 36.5 staff-years of
resident specialists, 180 months of short-term consulting services, 86 months
of formal training and related local expenditures. Its total cost exempt of
taxes and duties is estimated at US$14.9 million equivalent. Physical and



14
price contingencies would constitute 19 percent of total base costs, which
have been prepared in February 1983 prices.  The proposed Bank loan of US$11.0
million would cover the project's foreign cost component, which accounts for
74 percent of total costs; Government would meet the remaining costs of US$3.9
million equivalent. Price contingencies on resident specialists, short-term
consultants, and training programs have been incorporated assuming an
international inflation rate of 8 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984 and 7
percent for 1985-1987. Price contingencies on local expenditures amount to 14
percent for 1983, 12 percent for 1984 and 10 percent in 1985-1987. Physical
contingencies of 5 percent have also been provided on these inputs. Average
base costs for resident specialists, including salaries, housing and other
allowances, are estimated at US$12,400 per month. The average cost of short-
term consulting services is estimated at US$14,600 per month, including fees,
international travel and subsistence.  The Government has agreed that these
costs are realistic given high local housing and subsistence costs and in
relation to those prevailing locally for expatriates having similar high
qualifications as those required for the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.      The selection of resident specialists and short-term consultants
would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance for the public finance
sub-project and the Ministry of the Interior for the urban sub-project. All
terms of reference, qualifications and contracts for their services would be
subject to prior approval by the Bank. While most short-term assignments
would demand recruitment of expatriate consultants, the credit would finance
qualified local consultant services, working either independently or in
collaboration with foreign enterprises.
52.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of total
direct foreign exchange costs of the resident specialists, short-term
consultants and training programs and 77 percent of local expenditures for
qualified local consulting services. Disbursements would be fully
documented.  The Government's contribution of US$3.9 miLLion equivalent would
finance the related local costs.
Accounts and Auditing
53.      The Cabinet of the Minister of Finance would establish and maintain
consolidated project accounts for all expenditures under the proposed
project. These accounts and supporting records would be audited annually by
auditors acceptable to the Bank and audit reports would be submitted promptly
to the Bank (Section 4.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
54.      The main benefits of the proposed project would be the development of
staff expertise and management systems required to maintain over the medium-
term a sound public finance position in the Congo's petroleum boom economy and
to increase absorptive capacity to implement appropriate urban infrastructural
investments.
55.      Three principal risks are associated with achieving project
objectives. Delays may arise in providing qualified expatriate resident



15
specialists as anticipated; similarly, difficulties may be experienced in
recruiting and retaining trained Congolese personnel. These risks have first
been addressed by having recruited under PPF financing four of the resident
specialists to help prepare the project and implement several urgent
activities. In addition, recruitment procedures for other resident
specialists were initiated following negotiations. The project provides,
however, that they would not be recruited without the prior availability of
required Congolese staff and facilities. An additional risk is that policy
and program recommendations arising from project work would not be fully
reviewed and acted upon.  The Government would in this regard regularly
account for and consult with the Bank concerning the results of studies and
recommendations pertaining to institutional changes, policies and programs
(para. 49).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.      The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of the Congo
and the Bank and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being circulated to the
Executive Directors separately.
57.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
58.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
59.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Washington D.C.                                        A.W. Clausen
May 2, 1983                                            President
f



ANNEX I
16                                                   Page 1 of 7 pages
TABLE 3A
CONGO, PEOPLES REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CONGO, PEOPLES REP.              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XH.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            342.0                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOHE
AGRICULTURAL     106.7               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  260.0       370.0     900.0                1053.2                   1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     120.2        162.0     194.9                 610.1                    713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   950.0       1208.0    1605.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.5         38.3      45.0                  28.3                     47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        3.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         10.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        2.8          3.5       4.5                  54.7                     35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      8.9         11.4      14.6                 129.9                    420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTLRE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                         41.0         42.2      43.5                  46.0                     44.3
15-64 YRS.                         55.8         54.6      53.3                  51.1                    52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2          3.2       3.3                   2.8                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.4       2.8                   2.8                      2.8
URBAN                               7.2         5.0       4.5                   5.2                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     40.2         41.3      42.3                  47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      18.2        15.8      10.4                  15.7                     12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.6         2.8       2.9                   3.2                      2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FUOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          94.0        100.0      78.0                  90.7                   100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   97.5         96.2      99.1/c                93.9                   108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          35.6         35.4      40.4/-                54.8                    71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       15.3         14.2      13.8/i                17.0                    18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     38.8         33.0      26.7                  23.9                     15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.7         53.7      59.3                  51.0                     56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          171.3        151.3     129.3                 118.5                    104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         27.0      17.0/d                  ..                     59.1
URBAN                               ..         63.0      40.0/'                  ..                    83.1
RURAL                                ..         6.0       0.0/d                  ..                    39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          6.0       9.0/e
URBAN                               ..          8.0      10.0/..
RURAL                                ..         6.0       9.0/e
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         16101.7      11071.4    7468.4/d             14185.2                  4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1297.3/f      897.9     597.7/i              2213.2                  1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            255.9/f      229.7/R   205.3/d              1036.4                   641.7
URBAN                            203.37?      298.27j   292.5 /i              430.8                   538.3
RURAL                            228.6/f      205. 0/.   173.4/i             3678.6                  2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        22.8        ..                    ..                     25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.5           ..        ..
URBAN                               ..           ..       5.5/h
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.7           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               4.0/i        ..      11.8/h
RURAL                               ..           ..



ANNEX I
17                                                  Page 2 of 7 pages
Page 2
TABLE 3A
CONGO, PEOPLES REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CONGO, PEOPLES REP.              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%GE5
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
HOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  78.0        130.0     156.0                   83.3                      88.7
MALE                 103.0        147.0      163.0                  96.1                     104.5
FEMALE                53.0        114.0      148.0                  80.4                      72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   4.0         20.0      69.0                   15.3                      39.7
MALE                   6.0         28.0       85.0                  19.4                      49.3
FEMALE                 2.0         12.0       53.0                  11.3                      29.0
WVOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  27.8                                9.8        6.4                   4.7                      10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             52.7         61.9      52.5                   38.6                     34.1
SECONDARY                           20.1        33.0       40.3                   23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.6         50.0         ..                  35.6                      43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          47.3         12.4      14.1/d                 31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.6         53.8      59.1                   71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1          1.5       2.1                   17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    1.1          0.7        ..                   19.1                      31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        0.9                   0.6                       1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        366.1        436.5     547.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    36.1         35.4      36.8                   36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               52.0         42.0      34.0                   56.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.0         21.0      26.0                   17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 38.5         36.1       34.1                  37.0                      26.0
MALE                                  50.2         47.5      44.5                   46.9                      46.2
FEMALE                                27.3         25.2      24.3                   27.2                       5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.3        1.4                   1.3                       1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
4                        URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 507.0                     279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  200.6                    178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (LS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 523.9                    403.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     190.0                  203.6                    285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                     ..                     22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                     30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 196-1; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /I 1972; /h 1974; Li Data for City of Pointe-Noire only, for 1958.
May, 1982



T-- P-1  (-l-  M) 1- ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    0110~Cl OCCIC1--ICOIC                .101......        6  0      00005  0
SM~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-   00                                C000006600C0600  C0-01~1-
,I-T  p ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~111C   0IOCOC    00   016001COC1C0C  61     O, 10
I-T I.-  -I OM  ---m   P1 0C0 10 . .0   1001  OO'6.....00CCO.CI.....601
- 1001000'C04C    p    vy61ij9001500000o   ICC CCO    OCO
10MM,                                       .10~~~~~~~~~~~0~000C0  010
jj ~  ~     ~     OCCOCCC    oooOCOllC I'lICC.1CoCo0    0010
001050   CC   Cn  C  0609CCICCC 0-T                   -  i.  00              CCCOIC  00  000T0             16  0CC0C  C    100000006056
60C  -110 ,31 6C  0CCI1.CC00001COII                  O     CCW-C                      CCI        OI --6;C          1001   00  1910--10             0060C
'05000091.00  -60 70CI   -COC-CC 100OPIC            C-1                01600IOCOCSC9CC                          006COCC0                      066
160CC   00COOC000IICCC  CCqoC  '00   COIC100  COCOCCOO  CISCI    o0CCo- oloClo olooooooooo
0;OICCCC    0 60-0  1  6Cr0011  IIOCI 01060  2010  IC00C00COC0              01   do'0             000     06       001-10000
ISOCI CC  0011 -1101000601OOCOC 00CCC1600011015$0000..........000060                   ..OC .....001C. .....           1C
'000600000060010  CCCC0COOC  ACCIO910  CCI 'CIC   0000  C  0
CCC  0 06006000OCCOOCO1CC60         Al OCI6C   CIC.P0 I-Co.0CICC           01     01   O  041 16C            01000'1CiCOAO311ftC0OC
00060000   OIOC   90000   0100CC  110  ICOOC                     -ICCCCCCCC1.61'0C61.101CCCC0CO_C0C610106
4TP10061911 -1    00P19    00600C6. 0 CC6COIC                                          1OC1C00C106q-C01C10~00                                                   CO
- xP-                  00  10       CC06   9Coo0s?O'C?001CC  11  11    616
1010  I0Co~   oo,   01C10010010100100COIICICoo SA          CCI000I CII   CIC    C 040'CCOCCCC    OICA.70.........1!lP
1010CC 091091>010094  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     1  I',00
11-149C                            '0C  06  CC101,   010611CC
00CICCC'COCO O  CCC  O 'CCII  006C   '6  1111                  CC        iCCi.           C C              C 006          '       -      01



19
Population:  1.6 million  (mid  1981)                                                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO                                        ANNEX  I
GNP per  capita:  US$900  (Bank Atlas  estimate                                                      ECONOMIC INDICATORS (1)  /a                                          PageTof   7 pages
for 1980)
Eat.      Eat.
1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
National Accounts
(In current CFAF Billions)
GDP at market Prices                    164,4      180.3      188.0      198.3     255.0      369,5      508.5      596,9
Gross Domestic Investment                64.2       55.9       50.0       54.3       65.0     137.0      165.0      180.0
Gross National Savyins                   11.9       -1.0        3.7        7.6       41,5     102.0      137,6      154.7
Imports of Goods and NFS /b             104.9      120.0      122.7     120.2      124.0      216.6      286.5      379.8
sExports of Goods and NFS /b                                                                               59,0       72.8      85.7       86.2      120.3      215.B      314.3      403.5
Gross Domestic Investment is I
of GDP                             39.1       31.0       26,6       27.4       25.5       37.1       32.5       30.2
Gross National Savinss as Z
of GNP                               7.5      -0.6        2.1        4.1       17.7       30.4
Imports of Goods and NFS as I
of GDP  lb                         63.8       66.6       65.3       6086       48.6       58.6       56.3       63.6
Exports of Goods and NFS as Z
of GDP  /b                         35.9       40.4       45.6       43.5       47.2       58.4       61.8       67.6
Annual Rates of Growth in I
GOP at market Prices (nominal)           20.0        9.7        4,3        5.5      28.6       44.9       37.6       17.4
GDP at market Prices (real)               1.0       -0.5       -3.5       -2.0       9.5       24.8       20.1        6.4
Gross Value Added bs Sector
(In current OFAF Billion)
Asriculture Livestock Fishers            21.0       21.4        0.0      27.8        0.0       36.8       40.0       45,0
Forests                                   2.8        2.9        0.0        4.0        0.0       5,5        5,9        5,5
Oil and other mining                     36.9       43.9        0.0       31.9        0.0     129.9      221.7      252.2
Industrs                                 11.2       16.9       0.0       22.6        0.0       26.5       29.5       32.8
Construction and Public Works             5,2        7.0        0.0        6.0       0,0       17.5       28.0       43.0
Transport and telecom,                   15.8       16.3        0.0       17.7       0.0       32.6       39.5       47.7
Services and Conerce                     29.4       25.9        0.0       41.3       0.0       57.7       68.6       81.4
Public Administration etc. /c            30,8       28.2        0.0      36.6        0.0       45.2       50.3       58.0
As I of total Gross Value Added
Agriculture livestock I fishers          13.7       13.2        0.0      14.8        0.0       10.5        8.3        7.3
Forestrs                                  1.8       18         0.0       2.1        0.0        1.6        1.2        0.9
Oil and other mining                     24.1       27.0        0.0       17.0       0.0       36.9       45.9       40.9
Industrs                                  7.3       10,4        0.0      12.0        0.0        7.5        6.1        5.3
Construction and Public iorks             3.4        4.3        0.0       3.2        0.0        5.0        5.8        7.0
Transport and telecoe.                   10.3       10.0        0.0       9.4        0.0        9.3        8.2        7.7
Services and Commerce                    19.3       15.9        0.0      22.0        0.0       16.4       14.2       13.2
Public Adsinistration etc. /c            20.1       17.4        0.0       19.5       0.0       12.9       10.4        9.4
_- - - - _ --_ - - _ _ _ - - _- - _- - - - - - _- - - - - -__ - - - - - - _ _- - _- - - - - - _-- - - - - - - _ _ _   _- _ _ _- _  _ _ _ - _ - _ -__ - _ -_ - _- _ - _ - _ _ _ - __ -_ -_
SOURCEICentre National de la Statistioue et des Etudes Economisues, Ministry of Plan
and Bank Staff estimates for years for which no official data are available.
In order to Preserve consistency, some adjustments have been made by Staff,
/a Fiscal Year is January I - December 31.
/b There are discrepancies between National Accounts data and those
resorted in the Balance of Payments on international trade and factor
services Payments and receipts, It is considered that the balance of
Payments data are more consistent and reliable and the figures used here
are consesuentla those taken from the balance of PaAments inforeation.
Ic This catenory includes sost importantly the value added conventionally
calculated for Public administration, but it also includes other non
market activities.
WA. CP 118 
04/24/83



20
Population:  1.6 million  (mid  1981)                                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO                                     ANNEX  I
GNP per capita:  US$900  (Bank Atlas estimate                                                                                                   Page  5 of  7 pages
for  1980)                                    ECONONIC INDICATORS 12)
Est.       Est.
1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980      1981      1982
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (IN CFAF BILLIONS)
(CASH BASIS)
Current receipts                              44.3       47.8      51.9      56.3      51.7      117.3    209.7      241.4
of which Oil taxes and rosalties         11.7       14.1      14.1      13.1      22.7      58.8    126.1       134.9
(as Percent of total)           26.4      29.6      27.2       23.2      43.9      50.1      60.2       55.9
Current expenditures                          39.2       43.1      50.8      58.0      54.8       74.4      97,7     134.5
of which salaries I wases              . 20.1       23.0      25.1      29.7      31.7      36.3       40,8      53.8
interest Paswents                1.3        1.7       2.0       5.1       3.4       8.2      12.0       20.3
Current surPlus (includind adJustments)         5.0       4.7       1.1      -1.7      -3.1       43.0     111,9     106.9
Investment expenditures                       18.2        8.5       2.5       5.0       4.5      27.0       52.0      82.0
Debt amortization                              2.5        2.8       2.0       4.5       4.5       10.0      16.2      29.0
Total capital expenditures                    20.7       11.3       4.5       9.5       9.0      37.0       68.2     111.0
Financing total                               15.7        6.6       3.3      11.3      12.1      -6.0      -43.7       4.1
(As Percent of GDP at market Prices)
Current receipts/GDP                      26.9       26.5      27.6      28.4      20.3      31.0       41.2      40.4
Total investment expenditures/GDP         11.1        4.7       1.3       2.5       1.8       7.3       10.2      13.7
Total debt service Payments/GDP            2.3        2.5       2.1       4.9       3.1       4.9        5.6       0.3
Financins total/SDP                        9.5        3.6       1.8       5.7       4.7      -1.6       -8.6       0.7
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
_ _ _ ____ _ __ __ _ __
(IN CFRF BILLIONS -- END PERIOD)                                                                                 Aug. 82
hones and auasi-mones                         29.1       33.9      34'5      36.9      44.9      61.4       92.1     103.3
Credti to the Government (net)                10.1       11.7      16.8      20.0      20.7      21.6        4.4       9.1
Credit to the Econom   /a                     29.3       38.0      38.9      39.4      45.6      56.0       94.2     115.5
(Percentaies or index numbers)
Mones t nuasi-mones /SDP                      17.7       18.8      18.4      18.6      17.6       16.6      18.1      17.3
Brazzaville consumer Price index  /b         100.0      107.2     122.7    135.1      146.1      156.7    183.3    205.0
(1975 = 100)
(Annual chanaes in Percent)
Credit to the Government (net)               119.8       16.1      43.4      19.1       3.1        4.5    -79.5      105.5
Credit to the Economs  /a                     28.1       29.8       2.4       1.3      15.6      22.8       68.2      22.6
Nones and ouasi-mones                         13.6       16.6       1.8       6.9      21.7      36.7       50.0      12.1
Brazzaville consumer Price index  /b          17.4        7.2      14.5      10.1       8.1       7.3       17.0      11.8
SOURCE:Data Provided bs various asencies of the Government of the Conso.
Adjustments and estimates are made by Bank Staff in order to make the
Presentation more complete than what is readily available, Also,
reclassification is used to make the data consistent with
standard definition of variables.
/a Includins Public enterprises.
lb This consumer Price index is first established in 1964 and does not
adeGuatels reflect the Prices increases for average families.
W.A. CP 11 B
04/24/83



Population: 1.6 million (mid 1981)                                                               21
GNP  per  capita:  US$900  (Bank  Atlas  estimate                                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO                                               ANNEX  I
for  1980)                                               ECONOMIC INDICATORS  (3)                                                 Page  6  of  7 pages
Estimates
1975       1976        1977       1978        1979       1980        1981        1982
Balance of Pasments (Billions of CFAF)
Exports of goods and non-factor services              59.0        72.8       85.7        86.2      120.3       215.8      314.3       403.5
of which Crude oil                              25.6        34.9       39.3        48.1       74.9       153.7      258.5       336.2
Ilports of goods and non-factor services             104.9      120,0       122.7      120.2       124.0      216.6       286.5       379.B
of which Oil sector                             36.9        40.4       41.9        36.9       38.0        86.1      230.4       175.3
(Resource wap:deficit with -)                       -45.9       -47.2       -37.0      -34.0        -3.7       -0,9        27.B        23.7
Net investment income and interest                    -6.8       -9.3        -8.9      -12.9       -20.4       -34.7      -55.5       -70,5
Net other factor services receipts                     0 2       -0.4        -0,4         0.2        0.7         0.5        0.0         0.0
Net unreouited private transfers                      -5.4       -5.4        -5.7       -0.9        -6,7      -13.6       -10.0       -14.5
(Balance on current account)                        -57.7       -62.3      -52.0       -47.6       -30.2      -48.6       -37.7      -66.8
Net unreouited Public transfers                        7.4        9,5         5.4        10.5        9.0        13.4       12,5        15.0
Net direct foreiwn investment and
h.  L. loans to Private sector                     20,9        22.3        29.5        7.0         2.6       16.7        23.1       44.0
Public sector  . I L. loans (net)                      8.7        13.2        8.1       32.7        13.3        35.6       10.7        92.B
:Disbursement                                   12.5       15.0        12.0       37.2        20.4        46.8       55.0       151.7
Amortization                                     3.8        1.8         3.9         4.5        7.0        11.2       27.7        58.9
Total net trade credit                                 7.3        2.7        -0.7        0.4         5.6      -15.1        28.8        -9.0
Other short-term capital (net)                         0.2       -2.5        -3.3        -3.4       -0.8         0.5       25.7         0,0
Other capital not elsewhere included                  -0.0        0.0        -0.2       -0.1        -0.1        -0.2       -0.0        -0.3
Monetary sector capital   /a                           2.8         0.7        2.2         0.8       -0.4         0.1        1.4         3.1
Errors and omissions   /c                              4.0       14.2         6.0       -1.3         4.4         8.9       -7.4
Overall balance                                       -6.4       -2.2        -5.0       -1.0         3.3        11.2       18.0
Total financins  /b                                    6.4        2.2         5.0         1.0       -3.3      -11.2       -18.0
Gross official foreign reserves                        3.2         3.0        3.4         2.4        9.7        20.9       36.8        12.9
(end-Year)
Net foreign assets (end-Year)                         -0.9       -2.6        -7.1       -7.7        -3.0         8.8       23.6         9.2
U.S.S 1.00=  EFAF (period average)                   214.3      239.0       245.7      225.6       212.7      211.3       271.7       32B.6
SDR 1.00= LFAF (period averase)                   260.1       275.9      286.8       282.3       274.8      274.9       319.B      362.8
SOURCEOData Provided ba various agencies of the Governeent of the Congo. Adjustment,
reclassification and estiaates are made ba Bank Staff.
/a Two depost banks (UCB and BCC) and Post Office.
/b Including chanses in arrearst and changes in reserves and related items,
/c The effects of exchanse rate fluctuations on asset values are not fulls
reflected in the variables used here nor in this adjustment item.
W.A. CP II B
04/24/83



Population:  1.6  million  (mid  1981)                                                 22
GNP per capita:  US$900  (Bank  Atlas  estimate                                     PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO                                               ANNEX  I
for  1980)                                         ECONOMIC INDICATORS (4)                                                   Page  7 of  7 pages
(In millions of U.S.. unless otherwise specified)
Estimates
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
EXTERNAL DEBT /a
Gross disbursements; Total                     120.6       81.9       90.5      227,5      138.3      198.0     307.0      461,6
of which IBRD I IDA                            4,0       10,2        3.3       20.1       11.2        2.9      18.5       10.4
Private creditors                    48.8      23.0       11.7      101.8       51.5      151.5      241,7     343.8
Suppliers                         48.2       19.7        5.4       19.9       25.B        9.2       47.0     135.6
Financial market                   0.6        3.3        6,3       81.9       25,8      142.3      194.8     208.2
Commitments ;Total                              95.0      236.6       84.3      157.2       99.6      319.0     544,6      421.4
of which ISRD and IDA                          0.0       38.0        8.5        0.0        0.0       35.0
Private creditors                   34.3       50.1       26.0       91.1       37.4      213.5      426.2     343.8
Suppliers                         30.4       27.1        3.6       32.6        2.4       24.0     187.2        6.5
Financial market                   3.9       23.0       22.4       58.5       35.0      189.5     239.0      337.3
Debt outstandins and disbursed; Total          373.5      421.0      510.5      778.3      B62.5      941.5   1.106.1   1,28E.5
of which Bank and IDA                         34.8       43.0       44.2       62.0       62.7       61,3      78.8       87.7
Debt service; Total                             36.4       25.7       38.3       30.9      111.2       99.0      107.6     270.9
(as X of eXsOrts)                             13.2        8.4       11.0        8.1       19.7       9.7        9.2       22.6
of which IBRD and IDA                          3.9        3.8        4.6        5.4       14.1        8.3        4.5        5.0
(as X of Total)                             10.6       14.9       12.1      17.6       12.6        8.4        4.2        1.8
Average interest rate on new loans (X)           5.2         5.8       5.1        7.1        4.6      10.2        11.1      10.8
Official creditors                             3.6        5.2        3.5        3,5        3.2        4.1
Private creditors                              7.9        7.8        8.8       10.0       10.8      13.9
Averase maturity of new loans (wears)           10.1       17.0        9.9        8,8       10.6      15.7          7.4       8.0
Official creditors                            10.6       19.6       11.2       11.2       11.5      22.8
Private creditors                              9.4        7.2        6.9       6b9         6.7        7.7
Exchanse rates
USN 1.00C  CFAF (Period av.)               214.320   238.982   245.671   225,638   212.723   211.302   271.729   328.600
USN 100= CFAF (End Period)                224.280   248.490   235.250   209.000   201.000   225.800   266-890   336.25
SOURCE) World Bank Debtor Reportini Sastes and Balance of Payments data Provided by the
Government with adjustments by Bank Staff.
/a Stock variables are measured as End-of-Period fisures, For conversion of
flow variables such as disbursements and debt service Period averase
exchange rates are used to obtain U.S. S fisures.
W.A. CP II B
04/24/83



23
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
Loan or
Credit       Fiscal                                   (Amount less cancellations)
Number       Year      Borrower      Purpose          Bank     IDA I/    Undisbursed
Ten loans and credits fully disbursed                 68.0     21.85
1349-COB     1977      Congo         Education II      8.00     -          2.00
971-COB     1979      Congo         Petroleum         -        5.00       2.51
1047-COB     1980      Congo         Railway II        -       30.00       9.90
1179-COB     1982      Congo        River Trans.       -       17.00      17.00
Total                         76.00    73.85      31.41
of which
has been repaid               31.70      0.12    2/
Total now held by
Bank and IDA                  44.30    73.73
Total undisbursed              2.00    29.46      31.41
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Invest-   Fiscal                                           Amount in US$ million
ment No.  Year      Obligator         Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
559-COB   1981      Societe des       Logging and Veneer   3.5      -          3.5
Placages au Congo
608-COB   1982      Societe d'Etude  Pulp and Paper                 0.2        0.2
de la cellulose  Products
du Congo
Total held by IFC                       3.5     0.2        3.7
Total undisbursed                        3.5    0.2        3.7
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   A loan for the Third Highway Project of $12.7 million has been signed but is
not as yet effective.



24                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of March 31, 1983)
Ln. No.             Second Education Project: US$8 million Loan of May 7,
1349-COB            1977;  Effective Date: November 29, 1977;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project provides for strengthening of educational
planning and creation of a primary teacher college, and education publications
unit, a technical teacher training department and a forestry school. Project
implementation is about two years behing schedule due to delays in contract
awards for civil works and equipment procurement. However, construction of
the five project institutions are expected to be completed by the end of
1983. The fellowship program has been satisfactorily implemented. The
Government has negotiated a contract for technical assistance with UNESCO.
Cr. No. 971-COB    Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project;  US$5.0
million Credit of April 11, 1980; Effective Date:
August 5, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project provides for technical assistance to the
Ministry of Mines and Energy and to the national company HydroCongo; a
management (diagnostic) study of HydroCongo in a first phase followed by the
implementation of the study's recommendations; an aeromagnetic survey of the
Central Basin (Cuvette), a feasibility study of a steamflooding pilot project
in the offshore Emeraude field; training and other studies. The main
components have been completed with some minor changes while technical
assistance including for legal advice, petroleum exploration and auditing is
continuing.
Cr. No. 1047-COB   Second Railway Project; US$30.0 million Credit of June 19,
1980; Effective Date: April 24, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
The project provides for completion of civil works on the
realignment of the CFCO railway, purchase of machinery for maintenance of
earthworks and consulting services for supervision and contract management.
With the exception of the long tunnel, works have progressed satisfactorily
and are virtually complete. Major difficulties have been experienced in the
excavation of the long tunnel, due to the difficult terrain and water inflows
on both construction sites. Recent progress has been hampered by severe
ground swelling on the western side requiring extensive reinforcing, and water
inflows on the eastern side requiring a lengthy grouting campaign.  These
problems appear to have been overcome and work is now advancing normally. 390
meters remain to be excavated and daylighting i's expected to take place in
October 1983, with completion of all tunnel works by September 1984. This
represents a delay of several months over previous forecasts, resulting in
additional costs. These increased costs, coupled with a shortfall in
contributions from one of the co-financiers and government measures such as
the abolition of preferential fuel tariffs for the contract have resulted in a
financing shortfall of some $45 million for which the Government is seeking
additional contributions from other co-financiers. A co-financiers conference
is being held in April 1983 to this end and to re-apportion shares of project
financing according to resulting estimates of funds available from each co-



ANNEX II
25                             Page 3 of 3
donor. The results of this conference and the consequent revised financial
situation of the project will be reviewed during a forthcoming field
mission. Operational performance of ATC has suffered a setback due to
frequent derailments, poor labour relations, delays in Government approval of
tariff increases and in payment of Government outstandings, and a tendency by
ATC to overinvest. These factors have materially affected ATC's ability to
comply with all the financial covenants of the Project Agreement. Urgent
representations have been made to the Prime Minister requesting measures to
put these issues right.
Cr. No. 1179-COB   River Transport Project: US$17.0 million; Credit of
March 10, 1982; Effective Date: August 8, 1982; Closing
tDate: September 10, 1985.
The project provides for purchase by the Agence
Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC) of new river transport equipment,
including timber barges, line pushers, tugboat, passenger vessel and
miscellaneous floating craft, rehabilitation and upgrading of river port
facilities at Brazzaville, Mossaka and Ouesso, expansion of training
facilities for river transport personnel, construction of river-training
works, purchase of data processing equipment and software, and training and
technical assistance. In addition, funds are provided for technical
assistance to the Ministry of Transport in setting up a planning unit as well
as to the Office Congolais du Bois (OCB), the Government timber marketing
Board. The project was declared effective on 8/8/82 and procurement of
equipment and civil works as well as technical assistance services are
substantially completed in accordance with Association guidelines. ATC's
river transport services are experiencing improved performance and other
project covenants are being met. Substantial progress has been made in
attracting new investors in the forestry sector, due to the improvements in
ATC's river transport services and to the new equipment for timber transport
from the northern forests.
Ln. No. 2227-COB   Third Highway Project: US$12.7 million Loan of December 21,
1982; Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project provides for a 3.5 year time slice of a
rehabilitation and maintenance program for unpaved roads in two pilot regions,
including the provision of (a) equipment for highway maintenance , workshops
and the testing of soils and materials; and (b) technical assistance for
training of road maintenance personnel and technical assistance for the
management of workshops, for highway planning and for the development of a
local construction industry. The project is not yet effective due to
administrative delays in the Government's services. However, the technical
assistance for road maintenance personnel and for the management of workshops
is in the field and bidding documents for highway maintenance and workshop
equipment have been finalized.



26                        ANNEX III
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare the project: one year.
Project prepared by: Government, consultants and Bank staff
Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: February 1982
Date of departure of appraisal mission: February 25, 1983
Negotiations completed: April 26, 1983
Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Project backstopping and supervision would be shared by the West
Africa Projects Department for the urban sub-project and the Programs
Department for the public finance sub-project.
Section III: Special conditions
A.        The Government would:
(1) appoint and maintain in the Ministry of Finance a qualified and
experienced project coordinator (para. 44);
(2) provide satisfactory evidence of the availability of Congolese
professional and support personnel and related office facilities
prior to the Bank's approval of contracts for resident
specialists and training programs (para. 45);
(3) submit proposed studies and training programs to the Bank for
prior approval with supporting documentation which would include
a detailed justification, plan of execution, and supporting
services to be provided (para. 46);
(4) separate budgetary allocation for each project component in the
Government's annual budget sufficient to support the project's
local expenditures for that year (para. 48); and
(5) review the status and results of project activities at least
semi-annually in consultation with the Bank (para. 49).



5A                                                     a/tac/e Ne eo,os =              CENTRAL  AFRICAN  RE  BLIC
acceptanCe o/ s.CO \ A '/ \ ~~~N.-.                                                                     
CAMEROON                                          '   1                                              0
_               _ I' 2                                                                                ;       _  h/4.  Doe                        2-
ESSO                 -         /MPFOND
POPULATION  DISTRIBUTION
DI5TRIBUTION DE LA POPULATION   ,.                                -                                                                              J
d           1000-2000                                                               I
Q  500-1000                                                                              l
0  250-500                                                                                                                                  /
1 00-250
NUMBER OF INHABITANTS
NOMBRE D'HABITANTS
300.000
0~~~~ ~150,000NLO
700,000
50,000                                                                       /o                                             0 
300 iO*OOo                                                               C              AD  
2000-5000
SOURCE JEUNE AFRIQUE, 1977
POPULATION  DISTRIBUTION
-<iie  ,  e}L(;  '    '~                          DISTRIBUTION DE LA POPULATION
j-                                                                                  PRIMAARY ROAD, PAVED
ARTERE PR/NC/PALEEPAVE
PRIMARY ROAD. GRAVEL AND EARTH
>/r/NgoO i         PR MEARTERE PR/NCIPAFLE, RAV/ER ET TERRE
SECONDARY ROAD, EARTH
ROUTE SECONDAIRE, TERRE
-/-- /-  /HRAILWAY /CHEMIN DE FER
4'                                                 p     MUdoub /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~y                                 MARSH IMAR'AIS                        4a'
aba                -   _ -  REGIONAL BOUNARY
K                               AVILLE                       ZI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/MITE REG/ONALE
Loa/L/b,     MC              ----    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
boolo/   ~~~~~~  ('&J'   )  )(0/RAL                                        0/~~~~~~~~LMITE INTERNATIONALE
dfIIA3,INDA<<   :><r                              ?E         f'--                         D         50        /00      150        200       250     W
/T               C>     D               -dala-Ryas               .2 1650100NKILOMETERS
OURE                       pot'                                             ~       ~       ~~~~~~                   ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 50  100  ITS
Z A REMILES
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                                                 8



