E CIGFICIAL       CREDIT NUMBER 1311 LBR
Development Credit Agreement
(FourTh Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1311 LBR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
()                         3
AGREEMENT, dated                                  , 198, be-
tween REPUBLIC OF LIBE A (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) by a loan agreement (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) dated June 2, 1978, between the Borrower and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (herein-
after called the Bank), the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the
Borrower to assist in the financing of the project described in
Schedule 2 to the said Loan Agreement (hereinafter called the
Project);
(B) the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of part of the Proj-
ect, by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter ali4
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereitafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement ccept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated Jun  30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully ;et forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions, the Loan Agreement and in the preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to one million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if.the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for civil works eligible for financing under the
Credit shall be awarded on the basis of diroct negotiations, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty da7s after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1993, and ending October 1,
2002, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 2032, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower hereby undertakes towards the
Association the obligations undertaken towards the Bank pursuap'
to Article III and Sections 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of the Loan
Agreement, with the same force and effect as if such provisions
were fully set forth herein, provided, however, that all
references to the Bank and the Loan in such Article and Sections
shall be deemed to be references to the Association and the
Credit, respectively.
Section 3.02. All action taken by, and any notice given to,
the Bank pursuant to the Loan Agreement shall, unless the context
shall require otherwise, be deemed to be taken or given also by
or to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿-4-
(a) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Loan Agreement.
(b) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the Kuwait Fund Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Kuwait Fund Loan Agreemernt.
(c) The Kuwait Fund Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(d)  Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall not apply
if: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Bor-
rower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)  the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date)$, is hereby
specified for the purposes of      Section 12.04 of    the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Monrovia
Liberia
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              4221
Monrovia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 .(WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed iA each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works for          1,070,000             95%
reconstruction
of Nyaforla
Bridge included in
Part A of the
Project
(2) Consultant                 240,000             95%
services for
supervision of
the Nyaforla
Bridge con-
struction
(3) Consultant                 340,000             95%
services for
detailed engi-
neering and
preparation of
procurement
documents for
the Kakata-Totota
section of the
road described
in Part A of the
Project
(4) Unallocated                 50,000
TOTAL     1,700,000


﻿-7-
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to suth item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds o the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  <34A.     day of
198J1
FOR SECRETARY


