Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6733-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
May 18, 1987
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restrkted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
as of February 1987)
Currency unit = Kip Nationale (KN)
Commercial Exchange Rate
35 KN = US$1
Accounting Exchange Rate
95 KN = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilowatt (kW)                 -   1,000 watts (103 W)
1 megawatt (MW)                 -   1,000 kilowatts (103 kW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)           =   1,000 watt hours (103 Wh)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)           =   1 million kilow#tt hours (106 kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)                 =   1,000 volts (10  V)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)         =   1,000 volt-amperes (103 VA)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)             1,000 kVA
1 meter (m)                     -   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                -   1,000 meters
1 square kilometer (sq km)          0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (cu m)            =   35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        -   Asian Development Bank
CEM        -   Country Economic Memorandum
EDL        -   Electricite du Laos
EGAT       -   Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ERR        -   Economic Rate of Return
GDP        -   Gross Domestic Product
Lao PDR    -   Lao People's Democratic Republic
MC         -   Marginal Cost
SIDA       -   Swedish International Development Authority
TCE        -   Tata Consulting Engineers (India)
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Programme
VPREI      -   Vientiane Plain Rural Electrification I Project
VPREII     -   Vientiane Plain Rutal Electrification II Project



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...................                              iv
I           R THE ENERGY SECTOR......................                        1
A . Overvieewr.i.w .*.... .* * 4 *00 0 0 *** * 0   *  *@00.0400. 0** 0 0 0a  1
B. Resource Endowment and Energy Cons umption....................       1
II* THE POWER SECTOR....                    ........2
A. Background..  Z...  ...  ....  ...                      ....
B. Existing Generation Facilities.c i l i t i es...................0..  2
C. Electricity Generation and Consu mption.......................       2
D. Transmission and Distribution System**********#**************        3
E. Electricity Service in the Provinces.........................e*****  3
F. Sector Issues and Strategy      r    a     t     e    gy.............................  4
--, Power Development Progra m                                          5
H. Rationale for Bank Group's Involvement in the
Proposed Project.............  ...................000..            5
II. THE BEN..ICIARY              6*...........                              6
A. Introduction               ........             6.. @       t        6
B. Organization       6............                                     6
Personnel and   S     t     a     f     f     i     n     g        8
Operation and Maintenancei n t e n a n ce................s........  9
Transmission, Distribution and Losseso.....................        9
C. Financial Managementa            g     s    m    e     nt..... ....... ....................  10
Accounting and Budgeting .................... #*            . .. 10
Commercial Systemsy......                                         10
11
Taxiens... .0........ .................. ...............          12
Taxes                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12
............. .......  ...... .....................               12
This report was prepared by Messrs. Jamil Sopher, K.C. Ling, and Karl
Jechoutek who visited the Lao PDR to appraise the project in February 1987.
The mission received substantial assistance from Mr. A.E. Sparkes, both in the
field and at headquarters.
Tnis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



-ii -
Page No.
IV.  THE  MJECT............. ..........                                         13
A. Origin and Status of Preparation....                                    13
B.   O      b      j     e      c      t      i     v      e      s        13
C. D       e s c r i p t i o n    14
D. Cost   Etme                                                    s17
E. Financing Plan.................           .                             18
F. Management and Implementation.plementati.................on. .          18
Go Procuremento ............. ............... ..e.... ........e.  19
H* Disbuxsements.e....... .. ..  . ...... m..........ee..........          21
I. Monitoring and Re              p      o     r     t      i     n        22
J.Evrnen                                                                    .....  22
V.   FINANCE                                                                    22
A. Introduction...                                                         22
B. Past and Present Financial Performance ........................         23
Valuation of Assets................ .                                25
Remittances to Govervment..e...............................          25
Recoverables from Provincial Authoritiesooo................          26
Accounts Receivablec.......                                          26
Cs. Tarif                                                                  26
D. Financing Plan...............     27
E* Future Finncce                                                          29
VI,  JUSTIFICATION .....                                                         31
A. Demand Development .....                                                31
B. Least Cost Design ......32
Cs- Economic Rate of Return      eturn.................................    33
D. Cost of Supply and Ta                  r       i       fi               34
E.       ie                                                                35
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMNATIONS ................3
ANNEXES
1.  Existing Generation Faciist i e s                                           38
2.  Energy Generation and Consumption in Vientaine Area (1977-86)...            39
3.  Generation and Sales in Champassak Province (1978-85)........-..            40
4.  Generation and Sales in Savannakhet Province (1978-85)..........            41
5.  Power Development Program of EDL, 1986-94..8 6-0*000000009 40*0000          42
6.  Terms of Reference for the Institutional Development Components             43
7.  Program for Loss Reducio..                                                  49
8.  Program For Redu-ing Accounts Receivables.......................            53
9.  Scope of Works For Provincial Electrification Components**,,,ts.            59
10.  Selection Criteria For Rural Electrification Projects*****,.*...            60
11.  Terms of Reference For Engineering Servicesrvicoo......e so9.....           70
12.  Terms of Reference For Future Development Stu d y                           12



-iii -
Page No.
13.  Project Cost     imate..........................    76
14.  Procurement P      aek                      a      g      e      s        78
15.  Disbursement Schueu                                       l      e        79
16.  EDL Financial Statements (1so9).-. .                      .               80
17.  Demand Projections... ............               ...... g0.....0..   102
&8.  Economic Benefits and Costs - Assumptions and Benefits.. t.....         106
19.  Cost/Benefit Analysis                                                   110
20.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File...e...   114
CHARTS
1.   EnL Organization                            Cha                    rt ,  115
2.   Organization Chart of Southern Provinces Electrification Project   116
3.   Project Implementation Schedule....                                      117
MAP
1. Southern Provinces Electrification Project (IBRD 20230)



- iv -
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
Beneficiary:           Electricite du Laos (EDL)
Amount:                SDR 19.8 million (US$25.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Onlending Terms:       The proceeds of the loan will be onlent by the Govern-
ment to EDL. under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, with a
20 year term, including five years of grace on repayment
of principal and an interest rate of 8X p.a. EDL will
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives
and Description:    Economic development in the three Southern Provinces,
which account for about 32% of the country's population,
20% of the land area and 39% of the country's rice
production, has been hampered, inter alia, by the
shortage of electricity. The objectives of the proposed
project are: (i) to create an infrastructure for elec-
tricity supply in the provinces of Savannakhet,
Champassak, and Saravane; (ii) together with other
international financial institutions, to support the
further economic development of these provinces and
(iii) to provide electricity to households, schools,
cooperatives, hospitals, etc. in these areas to improve
the quality of life. The project also aims to
strengthen the institutions functioning in the power
subsector, particularly EDL and (through EDL) the
southern provincial electric power authorities. The
proposed project will include a 115 kV transmission line
to connect the Xeset hydro station (to be financed
jointly by the Asian Development Bank, the Swedish
International Development Authority and the United
Nations Development Programme) to the Thai grid; a
115 kV/22 kV substation at Pakse; electrification of
areas in Savannakhet, Champassak and Saravane provinces;
a prefeasibility/feasibility study of future hydroelec-
tric development in the southern area, including a
detailed feasibility study for the upgrading and exten-
sion by about 2,000 KW of the Selabam hydro station and
the implementation of that extension if proven feasible;
an institutional development program; and consultants
services for detailed engineering and construction
supervision.



- V -
Benefits and Risks:   The economic benefits for the proposed project will
consist of: (i) savings through substitution of low
cost hydroelectric power for more expensive alternative
energy resources, (ii) provision of power for small
irrigation and agro-based industries, and (iii) rural
electrification. The proposed project is justified with
an economic internal rate of return of M1t, calculated
using an "equilibrium" exchange rate of 300 KN=US$1.



- vi -
Estimated Costs: /a                                        Local   Foreign Total
---- US$ million ----
Xeset - 115 kV line and substation                          0.85    6.05    6.90
Selabam Hydrostation extension                              0.43    3.31    3.74
Provincial electrification
Savannakhet                                               1.04    2.69    3.73
Champassak                                                2.33    5.67    8.00
Saravane                                                  0.50    1.42    1.92
Future hydroelectric development study                      0.35    1.70    2.05
Institutional development                                   0.10    1.56    1.66
Engineering and supervision                                 0.19    0.75    0.94
Total Base Cost /b                                      5.79   23.15   28.94
Physical Contingencies                                      0.40    1.76    2.16
Price Contingencies                                         0.35    1.19    1.54
Total Project Cost                                      6.54   26.10   32.64
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                         0.23   25.57   25.80
Government                                                  6.31      -      6.31
IDA Credit 1197-LA                                           -      0.43    0.43
OPEC Loan 252-P                                              -       0.10    0.10
Total                                                     6.54   26.10   32.64
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                               1988   1989   1990    1991    1992    1993
----- US$ million  e-------- --
Annual                               3.1    12.0    6.0      2.7      1.6     0.4
Cumulative                           3.1    15.1   21.1    23.8    25.4    25.8
Economic Rate of Return: 11%
/a   Based on an exchange rate of KN 95 = US$1.  At this rate, the total
project cost would be KN 3,100 million. The foreign exchange component
and the IDA credit would be 80% and 79% of the project cost respectively.
/b   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.1       The Lao People's Democraiic Republic (Lao PDR) is a land-locked
country with an area of 236,800 km  and a population of 3.6 million.
Stretching more than 1,700 km from north to south and spanning between 100 and
400 km from east to west, the country is bordered by Vietnam to the east,
Kampuchea to the south, Burma and China to the north, and Thailand to the
west. About 80% of the country is mountainous, ranging in height between 200
and 3,000 m, which makes internal and external communications difficult and
costly. The largest city is Vientiane, which is located in the Vientiane
prefecture (population 381,000). The southern part of the count.y is divided
irto five provinces, three of which have substantial populations--Champassak,
407,000; Savanngkhet, 549,000; and Saravane, 189,000. The Mekong river flows
along the western border oi the Champassak and Savannakhet provinces.
1.2       The Lao PDR is one of the poorest countries in the world with a per
capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of about US$135 per annum (1985). It is a
predominantly agrarian country, and 85% of the population lives in rural
areas.
B. Resource Endowments and Energy Consumption
1.3       The Lao PDR is believed to have rich deposits of coal,!' lignite,
iron, copper, lead, tin and other metals, many of which ;re unexploited.  The
country also has vast forest reserves with about 40% (estimated at 10-11
million hectares) of the land area under effective forest cover. About 90% of
the energy consumed in the Lao PDR is produced from fuelwood, with electricity
providing 5%, and petroleum products providing the remaining 5%.
1.4       The Lao PDR has rich hydro electric resources within its borders.
These resources, including the Mekong River, have a potential of over 18,000
MW, of which only 153 MW has been developed. Although several studies of
potential sites on different rivers have been conducted, the scattered
distribution and poor demographics of the population has made identification
of viable projects difficult. The Bank Group is executing agency for a United
Nations Development Programme (UUDP) financed prefeasibility/feasibility study
to identify the next large hydro-electric site to be considered for
development (para. 2.12).
1/ Coal has been found in at least two areas around Vang Vieng in the north
and in the Nam Pathene Basin in Khammouane Province.



- 2 -
1.5       In contrast to the abundance of fuelwood and hydroelectric poten-
tial, the Lao PDR imports all of its petroleum needs. These imports accounted
for US$10.6 million, in 1985, or about 201 of the Lao PDR's total export
earnings.
II. THE POWER SECTOR
A. Background
2.1       Electricity is readily available in Vientiane and availability is
expanding the Vientiane Plain, which are served by the country's only
substantial grid. Only small amounts of electricity are produced and consumed
in the other previnces. Outside of the Vientiane area, electric service
consists of (a) scattered small generating sets serving the small surrounding
communities, and (b) in areas along the Mekong River in Savannakhet and
Khammouane Provinces, two interconnections with the Thai grid supplying power
to small ribbons of riverfront communities. Electricite du Laos (EDL)
operates and maintains the Vientiane area grid and related facilities; local
electricity supply authorities operate and maintain electrical facilities
outside the Vientiane area. EDL is charged with constructing new facilities
for the local electricity supply authorities and with assisting those
authorities in managing the systems under their jurisdictions. In the past
this interaction has r.ot been conducted according to formalized arrangements.
B. Existing Generation Facilities
2.2       The present installed generating capacity in the Lao PDR is 167 MW,
consisting of 153.3 MW of hydro-generation and 13.7 1MW of diesel plant. Annex
1 shows details of the location and capacity of the public electric services
operated in the various provinces.
C. Electricity Generation and Consumption
2.3       The 150 MW Nam Ngum hydroelectric station, which is operated by EDL,
is the most important facility in the power sector. Domestically, that
station supplies electricity to an integrated urban and rural electricity sys-
tem in the Vientiane prefecture. In addition, because most of Nam Ngum's
production is exported to Thailand, EDL plays an important role in the economy
as the nation's leading foreign exchange earner. Revenues from electricity
sales to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) in 1986 were
about US$26.2 million, or about 791 of the Lao PDR's official freely
convertible foreign exchange income. Under the ongoing Nam Ngum Hydroelectric
Project (Credit 1197-LA and OPEC Loan 252-P) a fifth generator was installed
and successfully commissioned in 1984. So far, that project has realized the
important objective of increasing the station's energy output, thereby
maximizing exports, by reducing spillage and enabling scheduled maintenance of
generating units. The summary of EDL's operations shown in Annex 2 includes
inter alia, details of Nam Ngum's measured output, consumption of electricity
in Vientiane and resultant exports to Thailand.



- 3 -
2.4       In 1986, the total energy generated at the Nam Ngum hydro station
was 867 GWh, of which 128 GWh was consumed locally and 684 GWh was exported to
Thailand. Total system 1b.sses were 56 GWh, of which 26 GWh were due to
station use and trensmission line losses. The remaining 30 GWh were distribu-
tion losses, which amounted to 19% of domestic consumption. Compared with the
Vientiane area, electricity consumption in other areas of the country was
relatively small and accounted for only about 15% of the total electricity
sold within the Lao PDR. About half of the electricity consumed outside the
Vientiane area was imported from the Thai Grid. A summary of electricity
generation and consumption in the Lao PDR for 1986 is presented in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: ELECTRICITY GENERATION AND CONSUMPTION IN THE LAO PDR
(1986)
Generation               Consumption
Area        Source             GWh         Z                      GWh      X
Vientiane     Hydro              867         97    Vientiane         128     15
Diesel               -         -    Export            683     82
Other areas   Import               17         2    Other areas        24      3
Hydro/diesel        12          1
Total                        896        100                     835    100
D. Transmission and Distribution System
2.5       EDL's only transmission system, which runs through the Vientiane
Prefecture, consists of 90 km of 115 kV single circuit and 90 km of 115 kV
double circuit transmission lines. Both double and single circuit lines
transmit energy from Nam Ngum, via the Phone Tong substation and the overhead
Mekong River and border crossing at Thanaleng, to the Thai Grid. From the
border, the lines travel within Thailand to the EGAT substations of Udonthani
1 and Udonthani 2. Power from Nam Ngum is stepped down from 115 kV to 22 kV
at the Phone Tong (54 MVA) and Thanaleng (30 MVA) substations near
Vientiane. Subtransmission circuits from the step down substations are then
fed from 22 kV interconnected distribution substations at Sisakheth, Sok
Paluang, That Luang and Vat Tay.  The 22 kV system extends 606 km, and 400 V/
230 V distribution lines extend 553 km. Elsewhere within the Lao PDR,
electric power is transmitted from the Nam Ndong hydro station to the town of
Luang Prabang by a 10 km 6.6 kV line and from the Selabam hydro station to the
town of Pakse by a 35 km 22 kV line.
E. Electricity Service in the Provinces
2.6       Outside Vientiane, only five other provinces have a public electri-
city supply. In Luang Prabang province, electric power is being supplied from



- 4 -
the Nam Ndong 1,000 kW hydroelectric station, which was commissioned in
1971. This is supplemented by a diesel station of 675 kW installed
capacity. The hydrostation was refurbished in 1985 using grant financing
provided from the UN Capital Development Fund. In Khammouane province,
Thakhek city receives supplies imported from Thailand via underwater cables,
which cross the Mekong River, and from a 400 kW standby diesel station.
2.7       The Southern Provinces have only limited fatilities for generating
electrical energy, and therefore electrification is sparse. In Champassak
province, the Selabam hydro station, about 35 km from the main town of Pakse,
has an installed capacity of 2,040 kW (3 x 680); however, because of faulty
design and siltation, its output has been restricted at 1,500 kW. A 35 km 22
kV line transmits electricity to consumers in the vicinity of Pakse and a few
nearby villages. Selabam is too small to meet the Pakse area's demand
adequately, and the limited electriciti supplies are subject to routine hour-
of-day and district rationing. Scattered diesel generators provide high cost
energy to parts of the province and a micro-hydro station supplies the evening
load for the town of Paksong. Annex 3 summarizes growth in power demand and
sales in Champassak province from 1978 to 1985. In Saravane province the only
electrification is in the town of Saravane where two small diesel generators
provide electricity for three hours of lighting in the evening.
2.8       Savannakhet province is supplied by an underwater cable from the
Thai grid. The power distribution network is growing rapidly and covers
several small towns, villages ann industries in addition to the town of
Savannakhet. Annex 4 summarizes growth in every generation and consumption in
Savannakhet province from 1978 to 1985.
F. Sector Issues and Strategy
2.9       Greater availability of electricity is a necessary requirement for
further economic development of the Southern Provinces. The area already uses
high cost energy alternatives based on kerosene and diesel to support
substantial agricultural activity. However, these alternatives cannot be used
to drive further economic expansion. These fuels are inordinately expensive
in the area because of the frequent inaccessibility of some of the area's
remote locations; even in areas that are reasonably accessible, supplies
canr'n be reliably assured because of severely deteriorated roads.
2.10      Under its Second Five-Year Plan, the Government is giving high
priority to improvement of electricity infrastru',ture in the South. In so
doing, the Government hopes to make progress toward achieving the following
development objectives:
(a) to develop small and medium size hydro power stations within the
country to reduce dependence on imports for energy supplies to
remote areas;
(b) as and where possible, to cxport surplus power to Thailand to earn
additional foreign exchange;



- 5 -
(c)  to replace imported kerosene and diesel fuel with electricity to
achieve cost reductions and savings in foreign exchange;
(d) to increase food production with electric pump irrigation schemes;
and
(e) to permit development of agro-based industries such as rice mills,
coffee processing industries and saw mills.
G. Power Development Program
2.11      Under the Second Five-Year Plan (1986-1990), the power development
program for the Vientiane area includes the following: (a) rehabilitation of
units 3 and 4 under the ongoing Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (Credit 1197-
LA); (b) rehabilitation of the Vientiane area substations; (c) implementation
of the Vientiane Plain Rural Electrification Projects (VPRE I and II) being
financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB); and (d) extension of the 115 kV
and 22 kV transmission networks. The development program for the Southern
Provinces includes (i) construction of the Xeset Hydroelectric Project (32
MW); (ii) rehabilitation and extension of the Selabam Hydroelectric Station (2
MW); and (iii) electrification of certain areas in Savannakhet, Champassak and
Saravane provinces. The Xeset Project is expected to be financed jointly by
ADB, the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA), and the UNDP.
The other two program elements are included as components under the proposed
project. The program also includes several micro hydro stations being imple-
mented or planned, which would be financed from assistance from donor
countries (see Annex 5 for details).
2.12      To enhance export earnings, the government is exploring the prospect
of substantially increasing electricity sales to Thailand by further develop-
ment of one or more of the Lao PDR's larger hydroelectric sites. UNDP has
provided a grant of US$1,450,000 to finance the cost of consultancy services
to conduct a prefeasibility/feasibility study to advise Government which of
three sites, Nam Theun (1,500 MW), Nam Ngum II (420 MW) and Nam Ngum III (700
MW) should be developed next. The Bank Group is the executing agency for this
study, which was begun by the Motor Columbus Consulting Engineers Inc. of
Switzerland in February 1987.
H. Rationale for the Bank Group's Involvement in the Prooosed Project
2.13      The Bank Group has had sporadic involvement in the Lao power sector
since the late 1960s. Bank Group assistance began with administration of a
development fund, financed by eight countries, to construct the first phase of
the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (2 x 15 MW units), which was completed in
1971. In 1982, following a ten year hiatus for involvement in the power
sector, the Association provided US$15 million (Cr. 1197-LA) for the
construction of the third and final phase of the Nam Ngum power plant, which
included, inter alia, the installation of the fifth unit of 40 MW capacity.
The Association's involvement in that project helped to achieve a revision in
the power supply agreement between the Lao PDR and Thailand. The agreement,
as revised, raised the base selling price of USe1.05 kWh to US¢3.1 kWh
effective October 1, 1981 and included an automatic annual 9% increase until



- 6 -
September 30, 1986. The price to go into effect after October 1, 19%6 is
being renegotiated, and discussions are currently in progress. As a result of
the 1981 sales agreement, the export of electric power has become a
significant source of foreign exchange for the Lao PDR.
2.14      As part of the Agricultural Rural Development Phase III Project
(Credit 1021-LA), feasibility studies to determine the electricity demand and
to assess the least cost alternatives for the development of future
electricity supplies in the Southern Provinces were conducted by Tata Consult-
ing Engineers (TCE) of India. Based on these studies, the Government has
requested that the Association finance the foreign exchange portion of the
cost of the proposed project. Association support for the project would
provide: (a) much needed capital in a project consistent with the country's
economic development strategy; and (b) strengthening of the institutions
engaged in the subsector through a comprehensive organization, management and
finance study and through an action program for implementing the study's
recommendations.
III. THE BENEFICIARY
A. Introduction
3.1       The beneficiary of the proposed Credit will be Electricite du Laos
(EDL), a wholly state-owned enterprise responsible for generationt transmis-
sion and distribution of electricity within the Lao PDR.
3e2       Prior to 1975, EDL was a public corporation responsible for generat-
ing and distributing electricity throughout the country. After the present
Government came to power in 1975, EDL became a state enterprise reporting to
the Minister of Industry and Handicrafts. In the recent past, EDL has served
mainly as an executing and operating agency, with EDL's parent ministry having
responsibility for sector planning and policy making; approval of the Council
of Ministers is required for most planning and policy making decisions and
even some operating decisions. Recently, the Government has been evolving a
policy to give larger enterprises such as EDL greater autonomy. The Lao
People's Revolutionary Party ratified this new policy at the Fourth Party
Congress in November 1986. The specifics of how greater autonomy will be
implemented are now being determined. The impact of this new policy on EDL is
beginning to be assessed.
B. Organization
Structure
3.3       EDL is headed by a General Manager who is appointed by decree of the
Council of Ministers on the recommendation of the Minister of Industry and
Handicrafts. He reports to the Minister, usually through a Vice Minister who
has specific supervisory responsibility for EDL.



- 7 -
3.4       EDL is in the process of modifying its organization structure.  The
proposed organization chart is shown in Chart 1. Under the proposed struc-
ture, 24 different departments will report to a three-person "management team"
consisting of (a) the General Manager; (b) the first Deputy General Manager,
who is responsible for capital construction and technical matters; and (c) the
second Dputy General Manager, who is responsible for commercial and business
matters._' Each of the 24 administrative and operating areas will be led by a
department head. Although EDL has a formal structure, its operations are
conducted as informally as possible within the limits of EDL's autonomy.
3.5       Electricity outside the Vientiane area is distributed and retailed
by provincial electric power authorities, which operate independently of EDL
for most of their affairs. The provincial and local governments make policy
for these provincial electric power authorities; and EDL usually manages the
construction of fixed assets on their behalf. The institutional capabilities
of the provincial companies are, at best, very limited; although the formal
ties are loose, they do draw heavily on EDL whenever any technical expertise
is necessary. In the recent past, they have not rendered annual accounts to
EDL. In fact, little evidence of their acco:tnting capability has been
observed.
3.6       At appraisal of the proposed project, the EDL organizatio-'s
capability to cope with anticipated growth was analysed and discussed. As the
scope of its operations grow and becomes more complex technically, the number
of managerial decisions will grow dramatically. In that context, EDL's
centralized structure combined with its informal managerial arrangements,
which appear to have been suitable for EDL's current modest scope of activity,
will need to be replaced with a more decentralized structure combined with use
of formal managerial systems and procedures. As importantly, since the major
assets being financed under both this proposed project and the Xeset
Hydroelectric Project will be built in areas falling within the jurisdiction
of the provincial power companies, the proper operation and maintenance of
those new facilities can only be ensured if: (a) EDL assumes functional
control over the provincial entities, and (b) those provincial entities
benefit from any institutional upgrading provided to EDL.
3.7       On May 7, 1987, the Government issued a directive giving EDL
operating control over the provincial companies, at least in those provinces
that will receive benefits from the proposed project, in a phased manner.  At
negotiations, EDL clarified that the Government's policy was that the assump-
tion of operating control would begin as soon as was practicable and would be
2/   The nine departments concerned with long range planning, financial and
administrative matters report directly to the General Manager; the nine
departments involved in capital construction and technical matters report
directly to the first Deputy General Manager; and the six departments
'oncerned with commercial and business matters report to the second
Deputy General Manager. Notwithstanding these direct reporting
relationships, the three senior managers function as a committee and make
decisions by consensus.



completed about one and one-half years prior to the completion of construction
of assets being financed under the proposed project. EDL also indinatec that
the Government intended that this operational control be established through
EDL (a) requiring the provincial companies to furnish such regular reports as
it may require from time to time; and (b) compiling annual financial state-
ments showing the consolidated activities of all power supply operations over
which it has operational control. A comprehensive technical assistance pro-
gram for Organization, Management and Finance (OMF Study), designed to address
the broad problems discussed above as well as specific institutional
weaknesses, has been included in the p:oposed project. The particulars of the
relationship between EDL headquarters and the provincial companies can be
defined by the OMF Study. At negotiations, EDL agreed that it will: (i) by
June 30, 1988, retain consultants, according to terms of rQference and
procurement procedures acceptable to the Association, to conduct the OMF
Study; (ii) by June 30, 1990, discuss with the Association, the OMF Study's
principal recommendations; and (iii) according to a schedule acceptable to the
Association, implement those of the OMF Study's recommendations that are
acceptable to the Government, EDL and tne Association. Terms of reference for
the OMF Study, which were discussed and agreed at negotiations, are provided
in Annex 6.
Personnel and Staffing
3.8       As of December 1986, EDL's total personnel included 1,356 employees,
with training levels as follow: engineers (46); technicians (non-engineering
college graduates) (131); skilled labor (503); unskilled labor and others
(676). The last mentioned category includes drivers, typists, junior
accountants, public relations specialists, nurses, teachers, bankers, and shop
employees.
3.9       EDL will increase its staff complement significantly as it assumes
functional control over the present employees of the provincial electric power
authorities and then adds additional employees to operate and maintain the
facilities being built under both the proposed project and the Xeset
project. The levels by which EDL's staff is expected to grow is presented in
Table 3.1. These increases appear appropriate to this utility operating in
the Lao environment.
Table 3.1: EXPECTED INCREASES IN EDL STAFF RESULTINC
FROM SOUTHERN PROVINCES ACTIVITIES
Present                   Projected
employees to              employees as at
Province              be absorbed                December 1992
Saravane                    15                            70
Champassak                 152                           317
Savannakhet                132                           187



-9-
Training
3.10      EDL currently operates a training program through which employeest
who are to be considered as skilled, learn various jobs. The program is a
standard one that lasts two years and focuses on the technical aspects of the
EDL operations. In the program, employees receive training similar to an
engineering curriculum, while also learning about the KDL network and
operation and maintenance of EDL's equipment. All existing employees
described as "skilled labor" have completed the EDL vocational school
curriculum.
3.11      TCE has been employed by EDL since 1981, inter alia, to review and
revise the organization's accounting procedures and to help implement
appropriate accounting systems. Although (a) the current system is
uncomplicated; (b) basic accounting procedures are followed; and (c) financial
statements are prepared only on a quarterly and annual basis, the accounting
function at EDL is only marginally satisfactory because of an insufficient
complement of adequately trained staff. As a result, TCE has concentrated on
providing training to the accounts staff. Under this training, EDL's
compilation of accounting data has improved.
3.12      The training arrangements appear satisfactory for EDL's current
modest size and technical simplicity. However, given the scope of expected
expansion in the medium term, one of the objectives of the OMF Study will be
to routinize job content at EDL as much as possible. In turn, whatever
training EDL provides should be much more effective since it will be directed
toward implementation of simplified, well codified jobs.
Operation and Maintenance
3.13      EDL has modern plant and equipment which it has been operating
properly and efficiently. It conducts regular maintenance according to
generally accepted public utility practices.
Transmission, Distribution and Losses
3.14      The EDL system includes only 180 km of 115 kV transmission line,
which is used to evacuate to Thailand about 79X of the energy generated from
Nam Ngum. Losses within the transmission system were contained to a satisfac-
tory 1.6%. The distribution system that supplies Nam Ngum energy to local
consumers is also small, and covers areas limited to within the Vientiane
Prefecture and the Vientiane Plain. Much of these distribution facilities
were built during the last 15 years. The system itself is modern and can
support considerable expansion. In view of these favorable characteristics,
the distribution system's losses are excessive at current levels of about 19Z



- 10 -
(para. 2.4) and substantial scope exists for loss reduction.2/ During super-
vision of the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (Credit 1197-LA), EDL had
indicated that significant progress toward reduction of losses could be
realized by replacing several thousand faulty meters. New meters, which will
be financed under that earlier project, have been ordered and will be
installed systematically once delivered. At appraisal of the proposed
project, EDL developed a program of actions aimed at reducing distribution
losses to about 13X by 1993. A draft of this program, which was discussed and
agreed at negotiations, is presented in Annex 7. At negotiations EDL agreed
to implement a program, acceptable to the Association, to reduce distribution
losses.
C. Financial Management
Accounting and Budgeting
3.15      EDL's accounting system is based on conventional double-entry prin-
ciples, with income, expenses, assets and liabilities being classified accord-
ing to a code of accounts determined by the government. Basic accounting
records were first compiled in 1979, and then consisted of a general ledger, a
cash book, and sales journals for EDL's retail operations and company stores.
In 1982, TCE reviewed the accounting system and issued a report regarding
control records and procedures. Most of the recommendations have been
implemented. Quarterly financial statements, which consist of a balance sheet
and profit and loss statement, are now being prepared.
3.16      EDL prepares annual capital and operating budgets which are reviewed
with the Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts, the Ministry of Finance and the
State Planning Committee in June-July of year preceeding the one for which
they will be in effect. The budgets are then approved by the Council of
Ministers during the October-November period. Neither periodic budget reviews
nor variance analyses are conducted during the financial year itself.
Commercial Systems
3.17      EDL currently has unacceptably high arrears outstanding
(para. 5.9). In large part, these arrears are exacerbated by the system for
billing and collecting revenues from consumers within the Lao PDR.
3.18      Bills for power sold to Thailand are developed at EDL headquarters
based on meter readings taken at the Mekong River crossing. These readings
are normally taken according to a regular schedule. In the past, some delays
were encountered in developing the bills and delivering them to EGAT
authorities at Nong Khai. However, these delays have been manageable and EDL
management has succeeded in recent months in eliminating them altogether. In
3/   At appraisal of the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (Credit 1197-LA),
distribution losses were estimated at 242. Thus some improvement has
occurred during the past five years; however, considerable further
improvement is still possible.



- 11 -
turn, EGAT has been remitting payment according to the commercial terms of the
international agreement governing the transfer of power between the two
countries. Thus, although EDL carries in accounts receivable an average of
slightly more than 90 days of sales to EGAT, the period could not be shortened
substantially; moreover, because payments have been remitted regularly
according to contractually stipulated terms, these accounts receivable cannot
be considered as "in arrears". More importantly, because sales to EGAT
assures EDL of regular substantial cash inflows, the Government has reflected
a relaxed attitude toward late payments for electricity by Lao consumers
(particularly government-related consumers).
3.19      The poor and often unclear systems in use for billings and
collections exacerbate the problem of collecting from consumers aithin the
country. Virtually all consumer connections are metered; most meters are read
every 30 days, although some, based on the nature or location of the
connection, are read at 60 day intervals. The meter reader reports the
reading to headquarters where billing clerks are responsible for preparing
bills. The meter reader then delivers the bill on his next visit to the
consumer's premises after the bill has been prepared. In principle, the bill
should be prepared rapidly and delivered to the consumer within 30 days of the
reading; in practise, the bill frequently does not reach the consumer until
60-90 days after the meter is read. Mechanisms for dealing with disputed
bills are both unclear and time-consuming. Consumers wishing to pay cash may
give the payment to the meter reader immediately or on his next visit, or may
make the payment at the collection center at EDL's headquarters. Private
sector consumers would normally pay the meter reader. However, government
consumers (particularly employees) may pay with Government salary coupons; EDL
would then receive the proceeds through budgetary transfers. Typically,
substantial delays occur before the transfers are recorded.
3.20      Thus, bills were either constantly in dispute or ignored; or,
alternatively, EDL was constantly wrangling to realize transfers from govern-
ment agencies for settlement of consumer accounts. EDL has only recently
begun disconnecting delinquent consumers. It has also only recently been
developing the policies and practices for collecting partial payments while
resolving disputes. During appraisal, EDL developed a program to reduce
arrears to acceptable levels. A draft of that program, which was discussed
and agreed at negotiations, is presented in Annex 8. At negotiations, EDL
agreed to implement a program, acceptable to the Association, to reduce
arrears.
Audit
3.21      Responsibility for audit of EDL's financial statements belongs to
the Department of Finance in the Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts and to
the Ministry of Finance. Their audits comprise inspections of production
operations, fixed assets, planning, and financial activities. They also
establish the degree of compliance with labor conditions and review wages and
workers' living conditions. Under the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (Credit
1197-LA), EDL agreed to furnish reports of these audits to the Association not
later than six months after the end of the financial year. It has been
sending these reports although usually about two to three months late,



- 12 -
primarily because of delays in the audit departments of the two ministries.
At negotiations, EDL agreed to furnish audited financial statements to the
Association within nine months of the end of each financial year.
3.22      Although EDL recognizes the desirability of having an internal audit
unit, little progress has been made in identifying the personnel or the scope
of work. The major constraint is the insufficient number of adequately
trained personnel either to manage or perform this function. Currently,
internal checks conducted by accounts department staff are restricted to
periodic verifications of cash, stores, consumables, and other movable assets
such as office equipment, furniture and vehicles. These checks would have to
suffice for the time being. The development of an internal audit unit with a
broader scope of work must necessarily follow the institutional upgrades that
will result from the OMF Study.
Dividends
3.23      In the past, the entire cash surplus resulting from EDL's operations
had been payable to the Government, usually with remittances being made
monthly. As a result of the new policy to increase the autonomy of enter-
prises (Para. 3.2), EDL will be able to retain some of its after tax surplus
(para. 5.7).
Taxes
3.24      In the past, the Government has chosen to realize returns from EDL
in the form of dividends rather than taxes; therefore, EDL's past obligations
for income taxes have been minor. As a result of the reforms of larger enter-
prises (para. 3.2), EDL will accrue much more substantial income tax obli-
gations. Currently, EDL expects income tax to be levied at 25% of operating
expenses (para. 5.7).
Insurance
3.25      EDL makes no specific arrangements for insurance of its facili-
ties. The Government, as the owner of all assets managed by state enter-
prises, is responsible for meeting any losses which cannot be covered from the
enterprise's normal revenues and this arrangement has previously been accept-
able to the Association. However, for project related assets, EDL indicated
that it would ensure that contractors for civil works and suppliers of
materials would take out appropriate insurance coverage during the
construction period. These arrangements are identical to those which were
used satisfactorily under the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (Credit 1197-LA).



- 13 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Status of Preparation
4.1       The three Southern Provinces account for about 32% of the country's
population, 20% of the land area and 39% of the country's rice production.
The economic development of these provinces has been hampered in the past due
to shortages of such inputs as motive power (in the form of electricity or
diesel); raw materials; machinery; and, above all, the substantial finance
required to provide these inputs. Currently, the Government is giving a high
priority to the economic development of the Southern Provinces.
4.2       In October 1982, the Department of Electrical Energy (a unit of the
then Ministry of Industry and Commerce) retained TCE to study the electrifica-
tion of the Southern Provinces (para. 2.14). TCE's studies included a survey
of the potential demand for electricity, a technical evaluation of alternative
hydro sites in the region and & comprehensive analysis of the least cost
alternatives for the development of electric supplies in each province. The
results of the studies were finalized in a report entitled "Southern Provinces
of Laos, Rural Electrifi9qtion" dated April 1983. This and other reports
prepared by TCE in 1986,4' form the basis of this appraisal.
4.3       In parallel with these studies, a feasibility analysis for a 32 MW
hydropower project at Xeset in Saravane province was conducted by consultants
employed by ADB. The analysis indicated that Xeset could provide energy for
the electrification of Saravane and Champassak at an economic cost and that
substantial excess energy could be exported to the Thai grid.
4.4       TCE developed a transmission system optimization study, which
indicated that a line energized at 115 kV is the most economic method of
transmitting energy from Xeset to the Thai grid. This conclusion was
confirmed independently by EGAT. At a meeting held in July 1984, ADB, EDL and
the Bank Group agreed to proceed with further investigations for an integrated
project based on developing the Xeset hydro site for electrifying the two
Southern Provinces of Champassak and Saravane and for exporting surplus
electrical energy from Xeset to Thailand. At that meeting, agreement in
principle was reached that ADB together with SIDA and UNDP, would consider
financing jointly the Xeset hydro generation facilities (para. 4.7), and that
the Bank Group would consider financing the transmission and distribution
facilities. While the two projects would form part of a single program, they
would be considered as separate (and not parallel) by the two financial
groups.
B. Objectives
4.5       The objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to create infra-
structure for electricity supply in the provinces of Savannakhet, Champassak,
4/ The full list is shown in Annex 20.



- 14 -
and Saravane; (b) to support the further economic development of these
provinces, now constrained because of lack of electricity; and (c) to provide
electricity to households, schools, cooperatives, hospitals, etc. in these
areas in order to improve the quality of life. The project also aims to
strengthen the institutions functioning in the power subsector, particularly
EDL and (through EDL) the southern provincial electric power authorities, by
formalizing institutional arrangements for management and cost recovery of the
expanding system and by developing formal managerial and operational systems
and procedures (paras. 3.6 and 3.7).
C. Description
4.6       The proposed project would include:
(a) an interconnection to the Thai grid by a 115 kV transmission line
from Xeset and a 115 kV/22 kV substation at Pakse. The line, which
will be about 115 km long, will serve as the source to supply
electricity to the areas being electrified in Champassak and
Saravane provinces and also to evacuate to Thailand residual power
from the planned Xeset hydro station;
(b) electrification of rural and urban areas in Savannakhet, Champassak,
and Saravane provinces using 22 kV medium voltage lines and
400 V/230 V distribution networks, with works to include four ware-
houses, one prestressed concrete pole factory, and one wooden pole
treatment factory;
(c) a pre-feasibility/feasibility study for future hydroelectric project
developments in the southern areas of the Lao PDR, including a
detailed feasibility study for the upgrading and extension by about
2000 kW of the Selabam hydro power station;
(d) engineering and preparation of the hydroelectric development deter-
mined by tho study in (c) above to be the most feasible alterna-
tive. In the event that the selected alternative is the upgrading
and extension of the Selabam hydro power station, the construction
of the same;
(e) an institutional development program, including (i) an Organization
Management and Finance technical assistance program, and
(ii) equipment for communications, metering and loss reduction, and
billing and office equipment; and
(f) Consultants' services for engineering and project implementation.
Xeset Hydroelectric Project and 115 kV Transmission Line
4.7       The 115 kV Transmission Line linking the Xeset hydro station to the
Thai grid, as well as the electrification of certain areas in Champassak and
Saravane provinces, are justified only in the event that the Xeset station
will actually be built and that the residual energy supplied therefrom will be
sold to ECAT. On March 13, 1987, an agreement in principle was reached under



- 15 -
which EGAT would buy residual Xeset energy from EDL for a period of ten years,
beginning with commissioning of the Xeset hydro station. Initially EGAT would
pay US¢2.9/kWh (in nominal terms) for this energy. The price would be
adjusted regularly to reflect changes in the cost of production within the
EGAT system. ADB has indicated that, based on this sales arrangement, it will
consider favorably a lending operation to support the Xeset project.
Confirmation that the ADB Board of Executive Directors has approved a loan to
support the Xeset project will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit.
Province Electrification
4.8       The scope of works for the electrification of the three Southern
Provinces would include 452 km of 22 kV medium voltage lines and spurs; 286 km
of 400 V/230 V distribution networks, 144 units of 22 kV/400 V/230 V step down
transformers, housewiring and needed connections to electrify 144 villages
with a total of about 8,000 households (Annex 9 presents detailed breakdown by
provinces). This component will also include the construction of (a) a
prestressed concrete pole factory, (b) a treated wooden pole factory, and
(c) four warehouses, each to be situated at appropriate places within the
project area.
4.9       Villages to be electrified will be selected on the basis of economic
criteria, primarily closeness to the 22 kV lines, number of households in the
village, number of irrigation pumps, rice mills and other industries to be
connected and expected load density, etc. (Annex 10). At negotiations, EDL
gave an undertaking that it will apply economic criteria in selecting sites
for future rural electrification developments.
Engineering Services
4.10      As TCE was involved in the feasibility study of electrification of
the Southern Provinces (1982-83) and provided substantial project preparation
services (1986), EDL decided to continue using TCE to provide the additional
engineering services needed for project implementation. This arrangement is
acceptable in view of TCE's familiarity with the project and its satisfactory
performance in the past. (Annex 11 provides the terms of reference for
Engineering services). The total man-month required for this consultancy is
estimated at about 115, of which 75 man-months are for detailed engineering
and 40 man-months for construction management. The gross man-month rate
including travel, direct expenses, per diem allowance, etc. averages about
US$6,500.
Selabam Extension
4.11      The Selabam hydro station was commissioned in 1970.  Although built
with an installed capacity of 2,040 kW (3x680), its output has been restricted
at 1,500 kW. The station's reduced output was due in part to faulty genera-
tors, in other part to faulty design of the penstock intake, and finally to
silting of the tailrace. The UN Capital Development Fund has been used to
finance the rehabilitation of the three generators. This work, which was
completed in 1986 has only marginally improved the station's output. The



- 16 -
station was originally designed to be expandable and existing hydrological
information indicates that it can be operated at 4,000 kW without substantial
investment. The civil works needed for expansion could be done together with
the works needed on the penetock and tailrace to permit operation at the
original rated capacity. While such an extension appears favorable econo-
mically, a study, which is included as a component of future hydroelectric
development study (para. 4.12), is needed to assess the technical and economic
feasibility of upgrading and extending by 2,000 kW the generating capcity of
the Selabam hydro station. If as expected, the extension is proved feasible,
the proposed project includes a provision for implementation of the related
works; if the extension is unexpectedly shown not to be as attractive as some
other alternative, the amount of the proposed credit intended to finance this
work would be used to finance the engineering and project preparation services
needed for the selected alternative.
Future Hydroelectric Development Study
4.12      To prepare for future power projects in the southern region of the
Lao PDR, the proposed project includes a study to be carried out in the
following phases:
(a) First Phase, the consultants will make a ranking study to identify
optimal sites for future hydro power development along the Sedone
River, as well as other sites in the southern provinces. The study
would cover the Selabam hydro station extension and other sites
already identified and would include necessary field investigations
such as topographic survey, hydrological review, geological/geo-
technical analyses and hydro power investigations.
(b) Second Phase, covering conceptual design, preliminary cost
estimates, economic parameters and technical recommendations for
developing the most suitable site selected on the basis of the
techno-economic analyses.
(c) Third Phase, including preparation of a final detailed feasibility
report for the most suitable project.
(d) Fourth Phase, including services for the engineering and preparation
of the selected project. If Selabam is proved to be the most
attractive alternative, these services would also include the
detailed engineering and implementation of that extension.
The total man-months required for this study is estimated at about 140. The
gross man-months rate is estimated at about US$12,000. Terms of reference,
which were discussed and agreed at negotiations, are displayed in Annex 12.
Institutional Development
4.13      This component would include:  (a) technical assistance for an OMF
Study designed to strengthen the institutional functioning of the power
subsector (paras. 3.7 and 4.5); (b) provision of radio facilities to improve
communication between EDL and the southern provincial electric power



- 17 -
authorities; (c) provision of meters, in addition to those already ordered
under the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (Credit 1197-LA), and a meter testing
laboratory to support the loss reduction program; and (d) provision of billing
and office equipment to support the accounts receivable reduction program.
The total man-months required for the OMF Study is estimated at about 60, with
an average rate of about US$12,000 per man-month.
D. Cost Estimates
4.14      The cost of the proposed project, based on end 1986 prices is
estimated at US$32.6 million and is summarized in Table 4.1. Details are
given in Annex 13.
Table 4.1:  PROJECT COST ESTIMATE /a
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    cost as
Component                      ----(KN million)-----   ---(US$million)------        of total
Xeset - 115 kV line and
substation                   80.8    574.7    655.5   0.85        6.05   6.90        88
Selabam Extension               40.8    314.5    355.3   0.43       3.31   3.74        88
Provincial electrification
Savanankhet                  98.8    255.5    354.3   1.04        2.69   3.73        72
Champassak                  221.3    538.7    760.0   2.33        5.67   8.00        71
Saravane                     47.5    134.9    182.4   0.50        1.42   1.92        74
Future hydroelectric
development study             33.2    161.5    194.7   0.35       1.70   2.05        83
Institutional Development        9.5    148.2    157.7   0.10       1.56   1.66        94
Engineering and Supervision   18.1       71.2      89.3   0.19      0.75   0.94        80
Total Base Cost            550.0  2,199.2  2,749.2   5.79    23.15  28.94           80
Contingencies
Physical                     38.0    167.2    205.2   0.40        1.76   2.16        81
Price                         32.4    113.0    145.4   0.35       1.19   1.54        77
Total Project Cost         620.4  2,479.4  3,099.8   6.54    26.10  32.64           80
/a   Base cost and contingeu.cies (at December 1986 prices) have been calculated using an
exchange rate of KN 95=US$l.
Note,     1.   The project would be exempt from import duties and taxes.
2.   Total physical contingencies are about 7.5% of base cost; local price
contingencies are about 5.72 and foreign cost contingencies are about 4.8X
of the base cost plus physical contingencies.



- 18 -
4.15      Unit costs were based on similar projects under implementation in
the Vientiane area. Physical contingencies were calculated at 10 for all
civil works and for the 115 kV transmission line and substation, and 6% for
equipment and distribution lines and other project components. Local costs
were estimated in US dollars and converted back to Kip at an exchange rate of
US$1 = KN 95. Because all costs, including local costs were estimated in US
dollars, the price contingencies are calculated on the basis of the projected
international rates of 3.0% for 1987, 1.0% for 1988-90, 3.5% for 1991-95.
E. Financing Plan
4.16      The proposed credit of about US$25.8 million would finance about 79%
of the total project cost (98% of the foreign cost and 4% of the local
cost). About $0.53 million for engineering services being performed in 1987
(about 1.6% of the total estimated project cost) would be financed from the
balance of funds which were allocated for future project preparation under the
Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (Credit 1197-LA and OPEC Loan 252-P). The
Government will finance the remaining US$6.31 million equivalent or about 19%
of the project cost. The proposed financing plan is shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
Local Cost     Foreign Cost       Total   Percent
-----------------(1US$ Million)-----------------
IDA                              0.23           25.57          25.80      79.1
Government                       6.31             -             6.31      19.3
IDA Credit 1197-LA                -              0.43           0.43       1.3
OPEC Loan 252-P                   -              0.10           0.10       0.3
Totai                         6.54           26.10          32.64     100.0
F. Management and Implementation
4.17      Status of Project Preparation.  The project has reached an advanced
stage of preparation. Fourteen out of the total of 17 procurement packages
have been prepared; only minor revisions would be needed to reflect the scope
of works as revised at appraisal. TCE was appointed as consultant in February
1987 to provide engineering services for project implementation (para. 4.10).
4.18      Major works such as construction of (a) the 115 kV transmission line
and substation; (b) extension of the Selabam hydro station; and (c) the pole
factories will be implemented on a turnkey basis (para. 4.21). The provincial
electrification components including the 22 kV lines, 400 V/230 V lines, 22
kV/400 V/230 V step-down transformers, housewiring and connections will be
implemented by EDL's construction force, following an approach similar to that
used by EDL in implementing the ADB financed Vientaine Plain Rural



- 19 -
Electrification Project I (para. 2.11). This arrangement is satisfactory. A
project office, which has already been established within EDL, will be
responsible for the supervision and construction of the proposed project. The
organization chart for this office is given in Chart 2.
4.19      Chart 3 gives the implementation schedule for the various components
of the proposed project. In June 1987, EDL plans to issue the bidding
documents for (a) the concrete pole factory; (b) the wooden pole treatment
factory; (c) the 115 kV transmission line; and (d) the 115 kV/22 kV sub-
station. Bids would be opened in October 1987 and contracts would be awarded
in December 1987. These facilities are scheduled to be tested and
commissioned by the end of 1988. EDL also plans to proceed with procurement
for the 115 kV transmission line 'nd substation as soon as the ADB Board
approves the financing of the Xeswt Project. The procurement of equipment and
materials for the 22 kV lines will be started in October/November 1987 so that
delivery can occur in time for the construction of the 22 kV lines to begin by
January 1989. The provincial electrification components are targeted to be
completed within 48 months. The project completion date would be December 31,
1992 and the closing date of the proposed Credit would be June 30, 1993.
4.20      Fourteen months are estimated to be required for the field investi-
gation, model test and feasibility study of the Selabam extension component.
If found to be feasible, procurement for the extension will be conducted in
the second half of 1989 and construction will be started by early 1990 and
completed by end 1992.
G. Procurement
4.21      Works and goods financed under the proposed project will be procured
by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group's
procurement guidelines. Consultants will also be employed according to the
Bank Group's short listing and evaluation procedures, except that the Bank
Group has already agreed that EDL may continue to employ TCE for engineering
services and construction management (para. 4.10). Procurement for works and
goods under the project will be conducted in 17 packages (Annex 14 provides a
description of the procurement packages). Six of these packages will lead to
single responsibility contracts for the supply of goods and equipment, civil
construction, equipment installation, testing and commissioning. These
contracts include:
(a) a 115 kV transmission line (about 115 kn);
(b) a 115 kV/22 kV substation nearby Pakse;
(c)  a prestressed concrete pole factory at Pakse;
(d) a wooden pole treatment factory at Pakse;
(e) rehabilitation and extension of the Selabam hydro station; and
(f) four warehouses in the project area.



- 20 -
Much of the construction labor used for provincial electrification will be
provided by small scale force account.
4.22      During negotiations, agreement was reached that, for the purposes of
contracting for the construction of the warehouses, local competition bidding
(LCB) in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association will
apply. Use of this procedure in such cases is permitted under the Bank
Group's Procurement Guidelines (May 1985). EDL was briefed thoroughly regard-
ing guidelines' requirements pertaining to LCB.
4.23      A margin of preference, following Bank guidelines, will be applica-
ble in the evaluation of bids for equipment from domestic manufacturers. The
margin will be either 15% of the CIF bid price of imported goods or the pre-
vailing custom duties and other import taxes, whichever is lower. Provision
will be made in the bidding documents to allow partial supply for domestic
manufacturers.  Some small scale local industries in Vientiane manufacture
house wires and switches. According to EDL the quality of their products is
acceptable, but their quantity of production has been limited.
4.24      Minor equipment, testing instruments, and tools, with a cost of less
than US$100,000 per contract and an aggregate cost of not more than
US$1,000,000 in total value, may be procured by Limited International Bidding
(LIB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guideline. Spare parts and
tires for existing equipment, with a cost of less than US$50,000 per contract
and an aggregate cost of not more than US$500,000 in total value, may be pro-
cured from original suppliers through direct contracting according to terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association.
4.25      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.2 below:



- 21 -
Table 4.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                Total
ICB      LCB    Others /a   N.A.    Cost
---------------(US$ Million)---------------
115 kV transmission                  7.9                 -          -        7.9
line and substation              (6.93)                                   (6.93)
Selabam extension                    4.47                -          -        4.47
(3.96)                                  (3.96)
Provincial electrification           8.87     1.54      4.72 /c     -       15.13
(8.87)   (0.42)   (1.50)               (10.79)
Future project development
study                              -                 2.27         -        2.27
(1.99)               (1.99)
Institutional development            0.84               1.00        -        1.84
(0.84)             (1.00)               (1.84)
Engineering & supervision             -                 8.83       0.20      1.03
(0.29)               (0.29)
Total                          22.08      1.54     8.82        0.20    32.64
(20.60) lb10.42    (4.78)               (25.80)
Ia   "Others", which means other procurement arrangements, includes provincial
electrification works to be executed by EDL and consulting services for
studies and engineering.
lb   Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the proposed Credit.
Ic   This represents force account (not being financed by the proposed
Credit).
4 26      All biddings packages for turnkey contracts and goods to be financed
by the Association that are estimated to cost more than US$0.4 million equiva-
lent would be subject to the Association's prior review of procurement docu-
ments. This covers nearly all of the foreseen Asscciation-financed contracts.
H. Disbursements
4.27      The proposed Credit would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the
foreign expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials quoted on
CIF basis; (b) 100% of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured items; and
(c) 1002 of the foreign expenditures for consulting services; and (d) 50% of
the local expenditures (up to a maximum of SDR 180 thousand, equivalent to
US$225 thousand) of consulting services. For expenditures relating to indivi-
dual contracts for goods and services valued at less than US$200,000 equiva-
lent, reimbursement would be made on the basis of statements of expendi-
tures. Documentation supporting such expenditures need not be submitted to



- 22 -
the Association but should be retained in EDL's office in Vientiane and made
available for review by the Association's supervision missions. To facilitate
disbursements under this project, a Special Account with an authorized alloca-
tion of US$2.0 million, representing approximately four months' average
project expenditures would be established. Applications for replenishment
would be submitted quarterly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 501 of the
initial deposit, whichever comes sooner.
4.28      Annex 15 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Credit.
Disbursements are expected to be faster than a normal rural electrification
project because of the advanced state of preparation of the proposed project,
and because about 801 of the proposed Credit will be disbursed specifically
against the procurement of goods and services that are planned for the first
two years of the project.
I. Monitoring and Reporting
4.29      Satisfactory procedures will be agreed for monitoring the progress
of project execution and EDL's financial condition. Progress reports on
project execution will be made on a quarterly basis. Financial reports for
the project and for EDL will be furnished annually (para. 3.21). A project
completion report will be furnished by EDL six months after the closing date.
J. Environment
4.30      Transmission and distribution components of the project will be
designed and erected in accordance with current technological practices and
will cause minimum disturbance to the environment. EDL has routed the 115 kV
line and located the substations so as to have minimum adverse visual impact.
4.31      As the works at Selabam involve rehabilitation and extension of an
existing site with a low diversion weir, no environmental hazarde or resettle-
ment problems are foreseen.
V. FINANCE
A. Introduction
5.1       Because of the centralized administration of the Lao PDR economy,
EDL has little autonomy. It enjoys some operating freedom as an enterprise,
and has nominal responsibility for realizing satisfactory financial perfor-
mance. However, the Government h-s imposed tight financial regulations with
which EDL must comply, and the Government, itself, makes all decisions
concerning tariffs, investment programs, and financial resource management.
5.2       A multiplicity of exchange rates, all related to the US dollar, are
applied to Lao enterprises; thus, results of a financial analysis can vary
substantially, depending on the exchange rate used. Because a substantial
portion of EDL's revenues is realized in US dollars and most of its investment
financing is raised in foreign exchange, EDL has not experienced and does not



- 23 -
anticipate future difficulty meeting its foreign exchange-denominated capital
and recurrent expenditures. Also, EDL maintains separate US dollar and local-
currency accounts. Therefore, the financial analysis that follows has been
performed in current US dollars. For accounting purposes, the Government has
instructed EDL to value the US dollar at KN 35 until the end of 1985 and at
KN 95 from the beginning of 1986 onward. These exchange rates were used for
converting kip to US dollars in the financial analysis that follows.
B. Past and Present Financial Performance
5.3       EDL's financial performance for the period 1982-85 is given in Annex
16. Key financial indicators for the period are presented in Table 5.1.
5.4       EDL has been a strong financial performer during the past four years
and has contributed substantially to the Government's general revenues.
However, this strong performance resulted directly from a highly favorable
contractual price for power exported to Thailand. At the time the export
agreement was negotiated in 1981, the agreed export price was related to the
cost of alternative generation. Since the cost of fuel for alternative
generation was escalating rapidly, EGAT sought to stabilize this escalation by
obtaining EDL's agreement to a 9% annual increase in the export price through
1986 (para. 5.10). Subsequently, the cost of fuel used for alternative
generation stopped escalating. Therefore the automatic annual increase built
into the contract has produced windfall hard currency surpluses for the Lao
PDR and EDL. About 791 of the electricity produced by EDL in 1986 was sold to
Thailand, providing EDL with US$26.2 million in revenue and the Government
with a major source of foreign exchange earnings.



- 24 -
Table 5.1: EDL'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1982-85
Financial year ended Dec 31                  1982       1983      1984       1985
Power sold (million kWh)                       858        818       844        847
Average revenue (US$/kWh)                    0.028      0.031     0.033      0.051
Operating revenue (US$ million)               24.5       26.8      29.3       44.9/e
Total operating expenses and taxes
(US$ million)                                6.3       9.4        9.0       17.8
Net operating income (US$ million)            18.1       17.4      20.2       27.1
Net income after tax (US$ million)            17.8       16.9      19.6       26.1
Dividend (US$ million)                        17.8       16.9      19.6       24.8
Rate base (US$ million)                       36.0       70.4      67.1       69.3
Primary ratios:
Rate of return-historical assets (X)                   24.7      30.1       39.1
Self-financing ratio (x) /a                102.1       57.2     451.9      294.2
Debt service coverage                       50.0        4.1      15.0        2.9
Debt/debt plus equity (X) /b                 6.9        7.4      18.2       27.5
Dividend yield (X) /c                       23.8       23.0      28.4       40.7
Operating ratio (M)                         25.9       35.1      30.9       39.6
Current ratio (X) /d                       117.4      220.9     104.1      127.9
Accounts receivable (months)                 2.9        2.9       3.9        5.4
IA   The ratio of cash available from operations (before payment of the dividend
to the government) divided by the three-year average of capital expenditures
(the previous year, the current year, and the following year).
/b   The ratio of total borrowings divided by the sum of total borrowings plus
equity (net of any reserve for revaluation of assets).
/c   The ratio of dividends to government investment.
7d   The ratio of current assets net of cash divided by total current
liabilities.
/e   A significant portion of the increase in sales is derived from an increase
of about 15002 in the price for power sold locally. In 1982-1985 the
exchange rate applicable to EDL was US$1UKN 35. In 1986 the applicable
exchange rate became US$1=KN 95. Therefore, from 1986 onward, the extent in
US dollar equivalence of this price adjustment will be substantially
reduced.
5.5       In the future, EDL's financial performance should decline substan-
tially because the export price of electricity is expected to decline substan-
tially. Negotiations regarding EDL's price for power being sold to EGAT have
been in progress since November 1986 (paras. 2.13 and 4.7). EGAT has offered
to pay US¢ 3.0 per kWh for electricity imports from Nam Ngum and has remitted



- 25 -
payments for consumption based on that price since October 1, 1986.51 The
price which will ultimately be agreed is likely to represent a substantial
reduction from the US¢ 4.4/kWh that had been in effect until September 30,
1986. The EGAT offer did include a provision for regular (preslmably annual)
review and adjustment. The expected revenue reduction, coupled with the
anticipated higher taxes and interest charges resulting from changes in the
financial regulations governing large enterprises (para. 5.7), should mean a
significant decline in EDL's profitability, albeit to levels that are still
acceptable (paras. 5.16-5.19).
Valuation of Assets
5.6       Revaluation of assets is not an accepted accounting practice in the
Lao PDR.  At the end of 1985, EDL's gross fixed assets had an historical value
of US$104 million. The Nam Ngum facilities and the associated transmission
lines and substations comprised a substantial portion of these fixed assets.
Asset revaluation would be of limited usefulness to an organization like EDL,
which has only limited input in investment and pricing decisions, and the bulk
of whose sales are subject to the terms of a long-term international
agreement. At appraisal, a pro forma revaluation of assets was undertaken;
that revaluation indicated that EDL's gross fixed assets had a replacement
value of about US$194 million as of year-end 1985.
Remittances to Government
5.7       In the past, EDL has been required to remit all surpluses to Govern-
ment; and those remittances of surplus, though budgeted, were considered as
similar to dividends. The high export price of power has resulted in very
significant dividends, exceeding US$19 million in 1984 and US$24 million in
1985. In 1986, as part of a reform of Government enterprises, the Government
decided to assess taxes while allowing EDL to allocate a small portion of pre-
tax earnings to a major repairs provision and a small portion of-after tax
earnings to a capital investment reserve. Both the tax and the allocation to
the capital investment reserve would be related to EDL's operating expenses
(including depreciation); in turn, the allocation to the majot repairs reserve
would be related directly to depreciation. The reduced revenues resulting
from a lower export price, taken together with the reduced earnings available
for dividends and the reduced dividend rate resulting from the reforms, are
expected to lower dividends substantially from recent levels. However, aggre-
gate remittances to Government, which include taxes as well as dividends, are
projected to stabilize at about US$10 million per year.
5/   While the price for imports fron Nam Ngum remains to be negotiated, EDL
has reached agreement in principle that EGAT will import electricity from
Xeset at a nominal price of US¢ 2.9/kWh, effective when the Xeset station
is commissioned. The agreement contains a provision that the price will
be adjusted regularly based on the cost of production in the Thai grid.



- 26 -
Recoverables from Provincial Authorities
5.8       In recent years, EDL has supplied a modest aount of electrical
energy for the use of consumers in Savannakhet and Khamaouane provinces. In
fact, that energy is imported from Thailand through interconnections at
Mukdahan and 8akon Makhon. For accounting purposes, that energy is considered
to be generated at Nam Ngum and "wheeled" through Thailand. As such, EGAT is
considered to be purchasing that energy and selling it back to EDL at the
purchase price plus a wheeling charge of US 0.5¢ per kWh. Under existing
arranSgementes, EDL then transfers the energy at this cost to provincial
electric power authorities who are responsible for its distribution and
retailing to consumers. EDL had not received payments for any of the
transfers made through the end of 19851 however, it has received some payments
for transfers recorded during 1986. EDL cannot continue to carry the US$2.5
million still owing for past transfers. In March 1987, the Government agreed
to take responsibility for those recoverables reprosenting the obligations for
Savannakhet for the period 1981-1984 and for Khammouane for the period 1981-
1985. Savannakhet is to remit payments for 1985 and 1986 according to a
schedule agreeable to EDL$ similarly, Khmousne is to remit payments for 1986
according to an agreed schedule. At negotiations, the government offered a
clarification that, should Savannakhet or Khamouane fail to make the agreed
payments on time, the Government would take the necessary initiative to ensure
that EDL received the due paymnt(s). The arrangements that were made
included a provision that Savannakhlet and Mhaaouane should remain current
hereafter.
Accounts Receivable
5.9       8DL has a history of slow collection of reveaues for sales within
the Lao PDR. Even so, the accounts receivable figures do not demonstrate
clearly the severity of the problem. Exports represent more than 75X of EDL's
sales. Although EDL's accounts receivable include an average somewhat in
excoss of 90 days of sales to EGAT, those receivables are consistent with the
comuercial terms of the export agreemont because the period comprises (a) a 30
day unread meter accrual; (b) a 45 day stipulated payment period; and (c) an
average 15 day period for transfer of the payment from the US Bank, which acts
as collector under the export agreement, to applicable bank accounts within
the Lao PDR. In contrast, accounts receivable represented 172 days of local
sales in 1984 and 311 days of local sales in 1985. Consumer resistance to
paying for power mushroomed after the introduction in March 1985 of an
increase, averaging 15002, in the tariff. EDL's preliminary figures through
August 1986 suggest that collections of local receivables are not improving.
The program, which was agreed at negotiations, to reduce accounts receivables
to acceptable levels (para. 3.20) is designed to address this problem.
Restoring EDLs' credibility as collector of a properly promulgated tariff
would appear to be its highest institutional and financial priority at this
time.
C. Tariffs
5.10      EDL has an uncomplicated tariff.  Its only sales at high voltage are
exports to Thailand.  Beginning October 1, 1982, the esport price has been



- 27 -
based on an agreement which provided for (a) a base price of US 3.1/kWh; and
(b) automatic escalations of 9X per year. Under this agreement, although
ECAT's comitment to purchase all available Nam Ngum power continues through
1991, the base price and escalation clauses lapsed on September 30, 1986 and
the export price due to prevail thereafter became subject to negotiation.
Because new rates for power generated at Nam Ugum have not yet been agreed
(par&. 5.5), SCAT is still paying USO 3.0/kWh and will continue paying at that
level until a new agreement on pricing becomes effective. All of EDL's other
sales are at medium or low voltage. The tariff for local consumption does not
include a demand charge. Energy is sold at KU 5/kWh to consumers related to
government (whether employees or enterprises) and KM 7/kWh to consumers
engaged in the private sector (whether domestic or comercial). Members of
the diplomatic community are charged USC 6/kWh for consumption at their
offices or in their homes. Consumers in the Southern Provinces have been
charged, either by provincial or local electric power authorities, rates
similar to those in effect in Vientiane if receiving energy imported from the
Thai grid in Savannakhet or Khammouane; alternatively, they are charged
between KU 10 and KU 40/kWh for power generated from small diesel sets.
5.11      In the Vientiane grid, the marginal cost (MC) for the low voltage
user amounts to about US 6.5C per kWh (para. 6.13).  Thus revenues being
realised from the diplomatic community are consistent with expectations from a
marginal cost based tariff. If valued at EDL's accounting exchange rate of
KU 95 a US$1, the charges to government sector and private sector consumers
should produce revenues consistent with an MC based tariff; however, if either
a market or equilibrium exchange rate is used, revenues being realized would
only be between 25 and 401 of what would be achieved with an MC based
tariff. In the Southern Provinces, MC for low voltage consumption would be
about USC 13/kWh. This would suggest a tariff of between KU 30 and KU 50/kwh,
depending on the exchange rate used in the analysis. Consumers in' Savannakhet
and Khamouane currently receiving power imported from Thailand are being
charged substantially less than MC. However, in these areas as well as in
Champassak and Saravane, the price being paid for power generated by small
diesel sets indicates a willingness to pay for appropriately priced power.
5.12      Although the tariff has scope for adjustment to bring the structure
and amount of rates into line with MC pricing, these adjustments are not being
sought under the proposed project. In March 1985, in the wake of a tariff
increase from KM 0.4/kWh to current levels, consumer resistance to paying for
power increased, and EDL wts not furnished with adequate authority to enforce
the new tariff in the Vientiane area. The credibility of EDL's tariff and
EDL's own credibility as collector of that tariff must be reestablished,
before further adjustments to the tariff are attempted. Otherwise, tariff
reform leading to increased arrears or less appropriate charges does dis-
service to both EDL and the Lao PDR.
D. Financing Plan
5.13      EDL's financing plan for the period of project implementation,
1987-92, is provided in Table 5.2.



- 28 -
Table 5.2: EDL'S FINANCING PLAN, 1987-1992
US$ Million               %
Internal Cash Generation
Net income before interest                             106.4                  74
Depreciation and related extraordi-
nary expenses                                         31.2                  22
Operating Cash Flow                                 137.5                  96
Less
Working capital increases                                1.8                   1
Major rapairs provision                                 14.3                  10
Taxes payable                                           33.5                  23
Dividend payable                                        31.1                  22
Major repairs expenditures                               0.9                   1
Cash Available for Debt Service                      56.1                  39
Less
Debt Service
Interest charged to operations                          11.9                   8
Principal repayments                                     9.2                   7
Total Debt Service                                   21.1                  15
Cash Available from Operations                       34.9                  24
Capital Investment
Proposed project                                        32.6                  23
Other projects                                          96.0                  66
Capitalized interest                                    15.2                  11
Total Capital Investment                            143.8                 100
Balance to be Financed                              109.0                  76
Sources Of Finance
Government contribution to equity                       17.9                  12
IDA-financed loans - Other projects                      2.2                   2
IDA-financed loan - Proposed project                    25.8                  18
Government project loans                                16.6                  12
Loans from official lenders                             19.1                  13
Government working capital loans                        27.4                  19
Total Finance                                       109.0                  76



- 29 -
5.14      The proposed project, including interest during construction, repre-
sents about 27% of EDL's investment program for the 1987-1992 period. The
proposed credit is expected to meet 18% of EDL's total financing requirement
for the period. At negotiations, the Government agreed to onlend the proceeds
of the proposed credit to EDL for a term of 20 years (including five years of
grace on repayment of principal) at an interest rate of 8.0%. EDL will bear
the foreign exchange risk. Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with terms
satisfactory to the Association would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit. Another 21 of EDL's financing requirements for the period
will be financed by the Association's Credit 1197-LA.
5.15      During the project period, EDL expects to meet about 24% of its
overall investment needs from internal cash generation. About 13% of EDL's
investment requirements are expected to be met from other loans from official
lenders.  The  ema ining 43% of EDL's investment program would be financed by
the Governmentsl (12% through grants and 31% from project or working capital
loans). EDL has the capecity to absorb the considerable additional debt
expected to be raised during the period. The debt to total capital ratio (net
of any reserve for the revaluation of assets) was 221 at year-end 1986. It is
expected to rise to approximately 46% by 1991 and remain at that level through
1994.
E. Future Finance
5.16      Projections of EDL's financial performance for the period 1986-94,
together with assumptions underlying those projections, are presented in
Annex 16. Key financial indicators are presentad in Table 5.3.
5.17      Between now and 1994, EDL has planned an aggressive investment
program. In addition to the proposed project, the investment program for this
projection period (1986-1994) includes the Xeset Hydroelectric Project
(variously estimated to cost about US$30 million), nonexport geteration and
transmission projects (estimated to cost about US$24 million) and other
distribution and miscellaneous projects (estimated to cost about US$38 mil-
lion). The total investment program for the years 1986 through 1994,
including physical and price contingencies, is estimated to exceed US$150 mil-
lion. This total program appears to be optimistic, both in terms of EDL's
implementation capacity and the Government's resource constraints. If EDL is
projected to remain in sound financial health assuming higher than likely
levels of investment, its financial performance will be even better at the
more likely lower investment levels.
5.18      During the projection period, EDL is expected to realize acceptable,
though irregular and declining levels, of financial performance. The rate of
return on historically valued assets is expected to drop from current levels
of 23% to an average of 13% during the 1987-94 period. Although irregular,
the self-financing ratio is expected to average 70% throughout the period,
6/ The Government would be obtaining substantial amounts of these funds
through either grants or soft loans, primarily from bilateral sources.



Table 5.3: PROJECTED KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1986-94
Financial year ended Dec 31                         1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991         1992       1993    1994
Power sold (million kWh)                              811     824      865      864      866     963    1,033    1,037    1,039
Average revenue (US$/kWh)                           0.040   0.033   0.034   0.036   0.037   0.037    0.039    0.041    0.044
Average revenue - constant prices                   0.040   0.032   0.033   0.034   0.035   0.034    0.035    0.035    0.037
Operating revenue (US$S00O)                          34.7    29.5    32.4    33.8    35.1    39.4         43.7      46.9      50.9
Total operating expenses and taxes (US$"000)         17.7    19.0    21.1    22.7    24.0    25.8         28.4      31.0      33.4
Net operating income (US$'000)                       21.0    14.7    16.4    16.5    16.9    19.8         22.1    .24.0       26.1
Net income after tax (US$'000)                       15.1     8.5      7.4      6.7      6.4     8.2       9.5       6.6       7.8
Dividend 'US$'000)                                   13.1     6.4      5.0      4.2      3.8     5.3       6.3       3.2       4.2
Total remittances to Government                      17.0    10.6    10.1       9.6      9.5    11.6      13.2      11.3      12.8
Rate base (US$'000)                                  71.2    68.9    74.4    87.0    93.8   104.7    130.6    152.7    175.1
Primary ratios:
Rate of return-historical assets (2)               23.9    15.3    15.2    12.7    11.9    13.0         11.7      10.4      10.0
Rate of return-revalued assets (2)                  9.3     4.5      5.0      4.5     4.4      5.6       5.6       5.2       5.1
Self-financing ratio /a (%)                       128.7    74.9    58.8    40.8    31.2    29.5         64.7      81.0    199.0
Debt service coverage                               1.0     7.3      4.2      3.7     2.6      1.3       1.3       1.2       1.2
Debt/debt plus equity /b (X)                       21.6    22.5    31.7    38.9    42.8    45.7         47.0      46.6     46.5
Dividend yield /c (2)                              19.7     9.5      7.8      6.2     5.1      7.1       8.9       4.9       7.3
Operating ratio7X)                                 39.6    50.1    49.6    51.3    51.9    49.7         49.3      48.9     48.7
Current ratio /d (2)                              131.2   121.7    94.4    83.0    83.6   104.6    109.7    112.5    124.9
Accounts receivable (months)                        4.9     5.0      4.7      4.4     4.0      4.0       4.1       4.2       4.4
Accounts payable (months)                           0.1     0.1      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.2       0.1       0.0       0.0
/a  The ratio of cash available from operations (before payment of the dividend to the Government) divided by the three-
year average of capital expenditures (the previous year, the current year, and the following year).
/b  The ratio of total borrowings divided by the sum of total borrowings plus equity (net of any reserve for revaluation
of assets).
/c  The ratio of dividends to Government Investment.
7d  The ratio of current assets net of cash dividend by total current liabilities.



- 31 -
down from current levels exceeding 1001. Remittances to the Government in the
form of taxes and dividends are projected to decline from current levels to a
stable level of about US$10 million per year. Despite these declines, EDL's
financial performance is expected to remain satisfactory, assuming:
(a) adjustments in the tariff every two years to maintain its real US dollar
value; (b) gradual declines in losses applicable to consumption within the Lao
PDR to 131 by 1991; and (c) gradual declines in accounts receivable applicable
to sales within the Lao PDR to about 180 days by 1990. This performance,
however, could be jeopardized if EDL fails to improve its collections (paras.
3.20 and 5.09).
5.19      EDL's financial performance can vary substantially as a result of
(a) the choice of exchange rate to be applied to EDL's accounts; and
(b) decisions concerning the amount and timing of EDL's remittances of taxes
and/or dividends. The uncertainties surrounding these parameters limit the
usefulness of conventional financial performance targets. Still, in the
interest of fostering b*6ic financial discipline and to assure EDL's financial
health, at negotiations, EDL agreed that it will take steps, including but not
limited to proposing increases to its tariff and implementing approved tariff
adjustments, to cover its operating costs (excluding depreciation), net
increases in working capital, major repairs expenditures, debt service, and
government tax obligations, and meet 20X of its average annual investment
program from internal cash generation. Also, EDL agreed that it will refrain
from incurring additional debt unless a reasonable forecast of revenues net of
cash operating expenses, increases in working capital, major repairs
expenditures, dividends, and Government tax obligations are sufficient to meet
1.1 times its aggregate debt service obligations for each year during the term
of the debt to be incurred. In addition, at negotiations, the Government
agreed to take whatever steps are necessary, including but not limited to
adjusting electricity rates, to enable EDL to meet the agreed self-finaacing
and debt service coverage ratios.
VI. JUSTIFICATION
A. Demand Development
6.1       For purposes of project analysis, the three Southern Provinces under
consideration have been treated as two self contained subproject areas:
(a) Savannakhet Province; and (b) Champassak and Saravane Provinces.
Savannakhet is connected to the Thai grid at Mukdahan by an 11 KV underwater
cable with sufficient capacity to accommodate significant load growth on the
Lao side. As a result, extension of the distribution network in the province
has been proceeding rapidly in recent years. The shortage of generating
capacity in Champassak and Saravane, on the other hand, has not allowed any
consumption growth for some time. Isolated hydro and diesel capacity is used
fully, and potential demand is severely suppressed. Consumption in Pakse and
Saravane towns (the main load centers) is subject to frequent cuts at peak
times.



- 32 -
6.2       Present electricity consumption in the three provinces is predomi-
nantly in residences and government offices (about 55-75%), followed by small
industries (about 20-40X). Where public electricity supply has not yet
penetrated, more expensive alternatives are in evidence. Small industries,
agroprocessing establishments, and wealthy households have installed diesel
engines or generators. In selected locations, costly alternatives for private
neighborhood supply can be observed. In general, the use of alternatives to
public electricity supply (diesel, kerosene) is hampered because the supply of
petroleum products to more remote areas of the Southern Provinces is not
reliable. The poor condition of the roads in the South results in erratic
supply and extremely high prices of diesel and kerosene. Because of the lack
of adequate local storage capacity, frequent shortages of fuel occur when
roads become temporarily impassable or supply bottlenecks appear. Private
fuel imports across the border with Thailand appear to be common; in these
cases, inflated handling premiums are usually shouldered by retail consumers.
6.3       Once the resource constraint that hampers investment in generating
capacity (Champassak and Saravane) and distribution networks (all three pro-
vinces) is overcome, demand can be expected to develop rapidly. The replace-
ment of numerous existing diesel motors and generators is likely to yield
immediate benefits, while new residential and small industrial connections are
likely to materialize as soon as the perception of shortage is removed.
6.4       Annex 17 provides the assumptions and detailed forecasts for demand
development, based on extensive field surveys, in the areas covered by the
proposed project. The emphasis is on residential and industrial use of
electricity. Major new lift irrigation schemes are unlikely to materialize in
the medium term. In Savannakhet province, the expansion of the grid is
expected to yield an increase in consumption from the present 11 GWh per year
to more than 20 GWh within 10 years. In the area covered by the project in
Champassak and Saravane provinces, the present suppressed demand of about
6 GWh is expected to rise to about 26 GWh in the new grid.  These estimates
cover replacement of alternatives, new connections, and increased consumption
per connection.
B. Least-Cost Design
6.5       Given the scattered nature of settlements in the Southern Provinces,
the distribution network layout is limited to load centers with sufficiently
dense connection potential. Long transmission lines to load centers with only
modest potential will be avoided at this early stage of electrification.
Limited supply from smll diesel and minihydro generation will have to suffice
for the more remote areas for some time to come.
6.6       The power source for the supply of Champassak and Saravane provinces
will be the planned 32 MW (expandable up to 45 MW) hydro plant at Xeset, which
is designed as an export project. Power from the station would be evacuated
via a 115 kV transmission line to Thailand through Pakse. Given Xeset's
proximity to Saravane, the town itself, close-by load centers, communities
with sufficient load demand along the transmission line, and others within a
radius of about 50 km around Pakse will be connected to the grid. The source
of supply to satisfy expanded demand in Savannakhet is the Thai grid, with



- 33 -
increased amounts of power being imported through the existing Mukdahan-
8avannakhet link.
6.7       In each case, the proposed power source is the least-cost solution
to obtaining incremental supply for the particular distribution network.
Domestic hydro alternatives are inefficiently small, remote, or in too early a
stage of investigation. The exception is the existing Selabam plant which can
easily be expanded to double its present capacity. This expansion, however,
would cover only up to five years' growth of domestic demand and would have to
be supported by imports well before that. The proposed Xeset project,
designed to export the surplus generated beyond the consumption in Champassak
and Saravane provinces, constitutes the least-cost alternative to supply the
area, based on the economies of scale provided by the opportunity to export.
The alternative of Selabam expansion only, supplemented by imports from
Thailand, would require a reduction of the project area to load centers close
to Pakse as transmission to Saravane could not be. economically supported. In
the case of Savannakhet, the proposed project can take advantage of the
existing transmission cable from Thailand to justify the expansion of the
network at low incremental cost.
C. Economic Rate of Return
6.8       Separate cost/benefit analyses have been conducted for the two self-
contained subprojects: (a) Savannakhet; and (b) Champassak and Saravane.
Analysis of (a) is based on continuing present arrangements for supply from
the Thai grid. Analysis of (b) is based on supply from Xeset and Selabam and
includes benefits from the export to Thailand of an expected surplus.
6.9       Costs and benefits were adjusted to bot-der price equivalent terms by
using CIF prices, an estimated standard conversion factor, a shadow wage rate
reflecting the split between money wages and remuneration in kind, and an
economically adequate "equilibrium" exchange rate. Fuel prices for alterna-
tive energy sources at the margin were derived from free market observation
and economic cost of delivery to retail consumers (Annex 18).
6.10      The economic benefits of the proposed subprojects consist of
(a) consumer cost savings through electrification compared to alternative
sources of energy, both existing and anticipated; and (b) revenue from exports
of electricity to Thailand. Consumers' valuation of energy supply is
estimated to decline to grid supply cost at the margin (Annex 18) according to
a downward-sloping demand curve. An estimated agreed export price expressed
at constant 1987 levels, of about USJ 3.0/kWh for firm energy from Nam Ngum
(or USi 2.7/kWh for secondary energy from Xeset) represents an estimated CIF
cost of electricity imported from Thailand of USi 3.5/kWh.
6.11      The economic internal rate of return (ERR) for the base case is
about 111 for the Savannakhet subproject, and also about 11X for the
Champassak and Saravane subproject (including the cost of Xeset construction
and benefits from exporting). The consolidated ERR for the project is
therefore llX. Annex 19 provides details of the cost/benefit analysis. If
additional potential lift irrigation schemes (which have not been taken into
account in the base case because of present lack of funding) materialize, the



- 34 -
rate of return increases to about 121 in Savannakhet and only marginally in
Champassak/Saravane. If an estimated export price of US 3.5/kWh rather than
USi 2.7/kWh is assumed, the ERR for Champassak and Saravane improves to about
141, while the ERR for Savannakhet decreases to about 10. A similar
decrease, to about 9.51, occurs in Savannakhet if demand is about 101 lower
than projected. The impact of a domestic demand decrease in Champassak and
Saravane is small, given that the residual energy is being exported. If the
second stage of Xeset (increasing capacity to 45 MW) is not implemented, the
ERR for Champassak and Saravane declines to about 101.
6.12      In fact, aggregate benefits from the proposed project could be
substantially more than has been quantified. Economic losses arising through
present underutilization of existing productive capacity or through quality
loss, attributable to a lack of reliable energy sources, could be
considerable. The benefits of eliminating these losses have not been
quantified, and would increase the rate of return if taken into account.
Similarly, the benefits of increased convenience of electric lighting is not
quantified but would increase the rate of return. Furthermore, the bulk of
future industrial activities expected to use electricity would probably go
ahead based on diesel power in the absence of the proposed project, thereby
implying substantial savings as a result of its implementation. In this
sense, the assumption of a linearly declining demand curve may be overly
cautious, and benefits may be significantly higher.
D. Cost of Supply and Tariffs
6.13      Marginal Cost.  All electricity consumption in the Lao PDR is
intimately linked to exports to or imports from the Thai grid. Essentially,
electricity in the Lao context is a traded commodity with an agreed border
price that determines opportunity cost at the margin. Any incremental
consumption within the Lao PDR in any of the separate grids directly implies a
marginal loss of export earnings or an incremental import expenditure. MC in
general, therefore, is equal to the agreed price between EGAT and EDL at the
border substation (at the appropriate voltage). It is possible that the
ongoing renegotiations of the price of Nam Ngum power will result in an export
price to Thailand of not less than US) 3/kWh at 115 KV, and a re-import price
to the Lao PDR at 22 KV that is USi 0.5/kWh higher than the export price (the
differential representing a wheeling charge and the cost of losses in
Thailand).
(a) Vientiane grid. The MC at the 115/22 KV substation is the foregone
export price of about USi 3/kWh. Assuming distribution rystem
losses improving to about 13% in the medium term, and distribution
system cost of about USi 3/kWh, MC for the low-voltage user amounts
to about US) 6.5/kWh. In terms of local currency valued at an
equilibrium exchange rate of KU 300 * US$1, this amounts to
KN 20/kWh for peak users. Off-peak users (i.e. industries and
pumps) would incur lower MC, as the share of their consumption
occurring during the evening peak is negligible.
(b) Thai grid-supplied areas (e.g. Savannakhet). The MC at the 22 KV
distribution substation is the border import price of an estimated



- 35 -
US 3.5/kWh. Assuming 13% distribution losses, and an average
incremental cost of the distribution system in Savannakhet province
of about USi 9/kWh, MC at low voltage is about USi 13/kWh or
Ku 30/kWh for peak users.
(c) Xeset-supplied grid. MC at 115 KV is tne foregone constant 1981
export price of USd 2.7/kWh (or alternatively, USW 2.9/kWh in
nominal terms in 1991). Distribution system assumptions similar to
those in Savannakhet yield an MC at low volcage of about USW 12/kWh
or KM 37/kWh for peak users.
(d) Isolated small diesel grids. MC at a utilization rate of about 4
hours per day would be about USi 20/kWh or KY 60/kWh at generation,
of which fuel cost would account for about USi 16 or KM 48 (Annex
18). Distribution costs and losses in compact isolated systems are
unlikely to be high. Peak users would therefore incur a cost of
about KM 60/kWh and off-peak users about KU 48/kWh.
6.14      Private Alternatives.  Residential, commercial, and small
industrial/pumping energy users are observed to use alternative sources of
energy where public electricity supply is not available. Economic costs of
these alternatives range from USi 18-25/kwh, or KY 53-75/kWh (Annex 18).
6.15      Compared to the economic marginal costs estimated above, tariffs
that are recovered from consumers vary widely.
(a) Vientiane area: tariffs for retail consumers range from KM 5 to
7/kwh on average. At the accounting exchange rate of KM 95 a US$1,
this equals the MC of US) 6/kWh. However, at an "equilibrium"
exchange rate of KM 300 - US$1, it is well below peak MC.
(b) Southern Provinces: tariffs are charged either on a metered basis
at KM 6-10/kWh, or on a basis of KM 200-300/bulb/month. The latter
is the equivalent of about KN 17-25/kWh. At an "equilibrium"
exchange rate of KM 300 - US$1, the tariffs are well below the
estimated MC at peak.
E. Risks
6.16      The primary risk inherent in transmission, distribution and
substation projects is delay caused by acquisition of land. EDL has already
acquired the right to the necessary land for the 115 kV transmission line, 115
kV/22 kV substations and 22 kV lines, the warehouses and the two pole
factories. The proposed project contains no other unusual or inherent
risks.
6.17      The proposed project's principal locations are considered secure
areas by UMDP. Missions from numerous multilateral and bilateral inter-
national organizations have visited these areas without incident in recent
years.



- 36 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements with the Government
7.1       During negotiations, agreements regarding the following were
obt&ined from the Government:
(a) The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be onlent to EDL for a
term of 20 years (including five years of grace on repayment of
principal) at an interest rate of 8X. (para. 5.14); and
(b) The Government would take steps, including but not limited to
adjusting electricity rates, to enable EDL to meet the agreed self
financing and debt service coverage ratios (para. 5.19).
Agreements with EDL
7.2       During negotiations, agreements regarding the following were
obtained from EDL:
(a)  EDL would:  (i) by June 30, 1988, retain consultants, according to
terms of reference and procurement procedures acceptable to the
Association, to conduct the OMF Study; (ii) by June 30, 1990,
discuss with the Association the OMF Study's principal recommenda-
tions; and (iii) according to a schedule acceptable to the Associa-
tion, implement those of the OMH Study's recommendations that were
acceptable to EDL, the Government, and the Association (para. 3.7);
(b) EDL would implement a program, acceptable to the Association, to
reduce distribution losses (para. 3.14);
(c) EDL would implement a program, acceptable to the Association, to
reduce arrears (para. 3.20);
(d) EDL would furnish audited financial statements to the Association
within nine months of the end of each financial year (para. 3.21);
(e) EDL would take steps, including but not limited to proposing
increases to its tariff and implementing agreed tariff adjustments,
to cover its operating costs (excluding depreciation), net increases
in working capital, major repairs expenditures, debt service, and
Government tax obligations, and meet 20% of its average annual
investment program from internal cash generation (para. 5.19); and
(f) EDL would refrain from incurring additional debt unless a reasonable
forecast of revenues net of cash operating expenses, increases in
working capital, major repairs expenditures, dividends, and Govern-
ment tax obligations are sufficient to meet 1.1 times its aggregate
debt service obligations for each year during the term of the debt
to be incurred (para. 5.19).



- 37 -
Undertaking from EDL
7.3       In the agreed minutes to negotiations, an undertaking should be
obktined from EDL that it would apply economic criteria in the selection of
sites for future rural electrification developments (para. 4.9).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.4       The following will be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit:
(a) Confirmation that the ADB Board of Executive Directors has approved
a loan to support the Xeset project (para. 4.7);
(b) The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and EDL, stipulating that the proceeds of proposed Credit would be
onlent according to terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 5.14).
Recommendation
7.5       Subject to the above conditions, agreements, and understandings
being reached, the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for an
IDA Credit of SDRs 19.8 million (US$25.8 million equivalent) to the Lao
People's Democratic Republic.



- 38 -                             ANNEX I
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Existing Generation Facilities
Installed
capacity
Location                      Type         (MW)              Remarks
Vientiane Province
Nam Ngum                    Hydro        150.00       2 x 15 MW (1971),
2 x 40 MW (1978) and
1 x 40 (1984)
Sokpaluang                  Diesel         8.00      4 x 2 NW (1971)
Luang Prabang Province
Nam Ndong                  Hydro           1.00      3 x 336 kW (1970)
Luang Prabang               Diesel         0.68       2 x 100 kW (1971)-83)
1 x 235 kW (1979)
1 x 240 kW (1960)
Champassak Province
Selabam                    Hydro           2.04      3 x 680 kW (1969)
Pakse                       Diesel         0.24       1 x 240 kW (1970)
Champassak                  Diesel         0.10       1 x 100 kW (1982)
Paksong                     Hydro          0.04       1 x 40 kW (1985)
Savannakhet Province
Savannakhet                 Diesel         1.00      4 x 250 kW (1970)
Saravane Province
Saravane                    Diesel         0.40      2 x 200 kW (1985)
Houaphanh Province
Houaphanh                   Hydro          0.15       1986
Phongsaly Province
Phongsaly                   Hydro          0.05       1986
Others                        Diesel         3.30
Total                            167.00



ANNEX 2
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Energy Generation and Consumption in Vientiane Area, 1977-86
Year                        1977      1978       1979       1980       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985      1986
Maximum Demand (MW)         13.5      13.2       14.4       17.6      20.0       27.2       29.5       31.2       31.6      32.7
Generation (GWh)
Hydro (Nam Ngum)       256.14    298.99    898.06    886.20    846.47    910.45    863.37    890.97    906.62    867.30
Diesel                   0.18       0*17       0.01          -         -          -          -          -         -          -
Import from Thailand    01.4        0.40          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -
Total             256.64    299.56    898.07    886.20    846.47    910.45    863.37    890.97    906.62    867.30
-                 -- - -                                                   -_  - -    ,--
Domestic Sales (GWh)
Domestic & others       58.77      58.71      58.78     72.47      92.40      92.33    109.31    114.47    118.65            -   w
Industry                 6.22       4.96       4.63      10.00     10.90      10.58       9.90       9.58      6.67          -   %
Agriculture                  -         -       2.49       2.73      2.70       4.46       4.80       5.05      5.06          -
Total              64.99      63.67     65.90      85.20    106.00    107.37    124.01    129.10    130.38    128.10
Exp -rt  to Thailand
(GWh)                  176.86    221.90    790.66    766.41    708.70    749.76    694.41    709.71    716.28    683.56
System Losses of Total
Generation (M)               5.7       4.7        4.6        3.9        3.8       5.8        5.2        5.2        6.6        6.4
Distribution Losses
GWh                          -         -          -      32.56     46.52      33.81      29.37      26.32      38.57     30.00
% of total domestic
consumption               -          -          -       27.6      30.5       23.9       19.1       16.9      22.8       19.0
No. of consumers               -          -         -    25,086    25,956    26,654    28,177    29,902    31,052    32,790
Source: EDL.



ANNEX 3
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Energy Generation and Consumption in Champassak Province, 1978-85
Year                             1978       1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984       1985
Maximum Demand (kW)             1,190      1,140     1,140      1,100      1,130     1,150      1,350      1,350
Generation (GWh)
Hydro                          4.38      4.42       4.63       4.89      5.51       5.85       6.56       6.77
Diesel                         0.04      0.04       0.05       0.03      0.02       0.01       0.02      0.02
Total                    4.42       4.46       4.68      4.92       5.53       5.86      6.58       6.79
Sales (G;Wh)
Domestic                       1.29      1.36       1.87       1.80      2.23       2.43       2.64      2.28
Industry                       0.19      0.62       0.55       0.61      0.68       0*79       0.83       1.10
Agriculture                       -         -          -       0.01      0.01       0.04       0.01       0.05
Government services            1.88      1.55       1.01       1.46       1.24      1.33       2.20       2.43
Total                    3.36       3.53       3.43      3.88       4.16       4.59      5.68       5.86
System Losses (GWh)              1.06      0.93       1.25       1.04       1.37      1.27       0.90       0.93
No. of Consumers                3,860     3,716      4,046      4,081     4,127      4,202      4,269     4,391
Source: EDL.



ANNEX 4
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Energy Generation and Consumption in Savannakhet Province, 1978-85
Year                             1978       1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984       1985
Maximum Demand (1W)             1,350      1,500     1,980          -     2,000      2,700      3,380      3,370
Generation (GWh)
Diesel                        0.04          -          -      0.01       0.01       0.03       0.01      0.03
Import from Thailand          4.87       5.41       6.20      6.43       7.99      10.23      13.35     13.69
Total                    4.91       5.41       6.20      6.44       8.00      10.26     13.36      13.72
Sales (GWh)
Domestic                       3.09      3.46       3.80       3.90      4.91       6.48       8.93      8.67
Industry                       0.56      0.72       1.02       1.11      1.23       1.44       1.37       1.59
Agriculture                       -         -       0.05       0.05      0.07       0.12       0.31      0.29
Government services            0.05      0.04          -          -      0.04       0.03       0.04      0.03
Street lighting                   -         -          -          -         -       0.23       0.26      0.23
Total                    3.70       4.22      4.87       5.06       6.25       8.30     10.91      10.81
System Losses (GWh)              1.21      1.19       1.33       1.38      1.75       1.96       2.45       2.91
No. of Consumers                3,845     3,964      3,958      3,983     4,120      4,475      5,168      5,427
Source: EDL.



ANNEX 5
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
EDL's Power Develo Ment Program, 1986-94
(U4S million)
Year ending December 31                  1986    1987    1988    1989    1990        1991    1992    1993    1994   Total
Proposed IDA Project
Southern Province
Electrification                       -      0.64   11.88   11.00    5.07       2.12    0.59      -        -      31.30/a
Ongoing Nam         gu dro ProJect
UoaL 3 ana 4 Kenablitatlon             0.50    1.30    0.20      -        -         -       -        -       -       2*00
Vientiane Substations Rehabilitation   6.50    1.00        -        -       -         -       -        -       -       7.50
Vientiane Plain R.E. I                   0*20    0*10      -        -       -         -       -        -       -       0.30
Vientiane Plain R.E. II & III            1.00    1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    9.00
Xeset Hydro Project                       -        -      0.40    5.60    8.40       8.80    2.50    2.50      -      26*20
115 kV Transmission Project               -       -       0.60    4.60    7.10       2.30    0.10      -       -      14.70
Nan Ngum to Vang Viang
Vientlane to Paksana
22 kV Feeder (Thakheh to Phountiou)       -       0.20    2.50    1.80    2*20       0.50     -        -       -       7.20
Nonexport Hydro Projects                  -       1.00    2.60    3.10    2.30        -                -       -       9.00
Other Capital Expenditures               0.50    5.60    5.00    3.70    1.40        1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   20.20
Total                         8.70   10.84   24.18   30.80   27.47    15.72    5.19    2.50    2.00  127.40
/a On 1986 price levels.
Source:  EDL.



- 43 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Institutional Development Components
A. Strengthening of Financial, Accounting, Budget and Control Functions
Objective
1.        The objective of this technical assistance component would be to
assist Electricite du Laos (EDL) to review its financial, accounting, budget
and control systems and strengthen the implementation of these system both at
the Vientiane headquarters office and at the various Southern Provinces'
accounting units.  To meet this objective,, DL management will ensure that the
consultant receives mximum coordination and cooperation of staff involved in
the financial, accounting, budget and control functions.
Approach to be Used
2.        The consultant's primary emphasis should be on training and
assisting EDL in implementing systems and procedures. To the degree that the
consultant is being asked to review, adjust, design, or develop systems and
procedures, the consultant should make maximum use of systems and procedures
and procedures already in place. Adjustments should be recomended only in
cases where existing systems and procedures can be shown to be inadequate in
the Lao context, or where a need to standardize or routinize a function may be
demonstrated. Otherwise, the principal purpose of the review will be
codification of practices currently in use.
Scope of Work
3.        The scope of work for strengthening the financial, accounting,
budget, and control functions would includes
(a) formal training for existing staff at the headquarters' and Southern
Provinces' accounting units;
(b) preparation and supply of the materials needed for training;
(c) visits by the consultant's staff to accounting units in the Southern.
Provinces to review the implementation of the systems, and to give
guidance (as needed) to managers at headquarters for improving
implementation of the systems by those Southern Provinces accounting
units;
(d) design and development of systems and procedures for budget and
control;



- 44 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
(e) provision of training in the use of systems and procedures for
budget and control;
(f) provision of guidance to EDL management in the use of financial
information for decision-making purposes; and
(g) as a result of experience gained during the training and initial
implementation periods, recommend changes in the financial, account-
ing, budget and control procedure being followed.
Terms of Reference
4.   (a)  prepare, with EDL, a detailed program for providing the requisite
training;
(b) review and recommend necessary bdjustments to the organization and
staffing of the finance and accounting wings of EDL. This part
should be carried out in close coordination with the Management and
Organization component;
(c) design and discuss with EDL's management the procedures, formats,
forms, etc. to be implemented. Special attention should be given to
the development of systems and procedures for the budget and control
functions. To the degree possible, the Consultant should make use
of the existing forms and procedures, or simplifications thereof;
(d) provide formal training to the EDL Finance and Accounts Staff in the
implementation of existing and proposed financial, accounting,
budget, and control systems and procedures;
(e) make visits as needed and as agreed with EDL, to the Accounting
units in the Southern Provinces to review the progress of implemen-
tation of the finance and accounting systems and to give on-the-spot
guidance and advice;
(f) ensure that forms and registers recommended for use are properly
completed and th't: procedures developed for financial accounting and
information systems are properly followed;
(g) assist EDL Accounting Staff in the closing of accounts and formula-
tion of a Consolidated Financial Statement for 1988;
(h) furnish guidance to EDL management in techniques for reading
financial reports in order to derive the maximum information
therefrom;
(i) assist EDL management in the use of financial reports for
anticipating problems;
(j) furnish monthly and quarterly reports to EDL management describing
activities to date and matters to which attention will be given
during the coming period;



- 45 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
(k) at the end of the financial, accounting, budget and control
components, furnish a report describing inter alia matters that
require continuing attention; and
(1) maintain at all times a proper liaison with the Organization and
Management component.
B. Organization and Management Study
Objective
5.        The objectives of this component would be to:
(a) recommend suitable and effective organization and management struc-
tures, policies and practices to enable EDL to manage its functions
both in the Vientiene area and in the Southern Provinces. In deter-
mining the organization structures, special attention should be
given to ensuring that formal organizational structures are
established that will enable EDL to exercise functional control over
Southern Provincial electric power authorities;
(b) recommend a staffing pattern based on consideration of optimized
staff size and making maximum use of (i) EDL's existing staff
resources; and (ii) those existing staff resources of the power
companies in the Southern Provinces;
(c)  review the existing internal systems and procedures, rules and regu-
lations, and reporting, both technical and financial, with a view to
formalizing delegation of responsibilities, lines of communications,
and flow of information. Special assistance should be paid to
developing lines of communication and reporting between EDL head-
quarters and provincial subsidiaries, and
(d) assist EDL in the implementation of proposed recommendations.
To meet these objectives, EDL management will need to ensure that the
consultant receives maximum coordination and cooperation from EDL staff and
from staff at the southern provincial electric authorities.
Approach to be Used
6.        The consultant's primary emphasis should be on training and
assisting EDL in implementing systems and procedures. To the degree that the
consultant is being asked to review, adjust, design, or develop systems and
procedures, the consultant should make maximum use of systems and procedures
already in place. Adjustments should be recommended only in cases where
existing systems and procedures can be shown to be iniadequate in the Lao
context, or where a need to simplify or routinize a function can be
demonstrated. Otherwise, the principal purpose of the review will be
codification of practices currently in use.



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
Scope of Study
7.   (a)  review the existing organization and management structures of EDL
and provincial power companies and recommend changes where necessary
in order to enable EDL to exercise funntional control over the pro-
vincial companies;
(b)  analyze the structure of all major functional units taking into
account their tasks and their inter-organizational relationships;
(c)  assess the staffing pattern and recruitment requirements in order to
determine and classify the various posts required for EDL as a whole
and for the provincial units individually;
(d) review the structure and activities of EDL's headquarters and
provincial commercial and administrative depa-tments to assure their
appropriateness and efficient operation;
(e)  review EDL's technical practices and develop sysems and procedures
aimed at making those technical practices uniform;
(f)  prepare reporting system for operation management, planning, and
monitoring; and
(g)  prepare a program for implementing those changes and recommendations
that are agreeable to EDL and the government and assist EDL in
carrying out the program.
Terms of Reference
8.        The consultant will in particular:
(a) Analyze the weaknesses, if any, in the present organization
structure of EDL headquarters and suggest adjustments thereto,
keeping in view:
(i) the purposes and objectives of the organization;
(ii) functional areas to be covered;
(iii) specialization and division of work;
(iv) line and staff functions and reasonable span of control for
senior officers;
(v) extent of centralization and decentralization that may be
appropriate within the Lao context; and
(vi) the need to formalize reporting relationships and lines of
authority.



- 47 -
ANNE 6
Page 5 of 6
(b) Analyze the organization structure of the provincial power units and
recommend changes, keeping in view those considerations itemized in
sections (a)(i) through (a)(vi).
(c) Develop structural interrelationships between EDL headquarters and
the provincial units that would enable headquarters to exercise
operating control over those provincial units.
(d) Prepare a staffing proposal based on the recommended organization
structures and interrelationships, and assess the extent to which
the provincial units would need support from headquarters to fulfill
their required functions and duties.
(e)  Prepare complete job specifications and job manuals setting out
suitable qualifications and experience for various categories of
employee.
(f) Analyze EDL's technical practices and operating procedures as well
as those in use in the southern provincial electric power
authorities.
(g) Recommend changes to those technical practices and operating
procedures aimed at maximizing the uniformity of parallel technical
functions within EDL and the provincial electric power authorities.
(h)  Analyze the current information systems and recommend adjustments
thereto, or alternatively introduce management information systems
appropriate to EDL's size and stage of development, which will
include inter alia:
(i)  information to be collected, where, when and by whom;
(ii)  design of various reporting formats for different functional
departments including construction, generation, transmission,
distribution, commercial, personnel, statistical and administra-
tive
(iii) flow of reports;
(iv) procedure for synthesis and analysis of reports;
(v)  procedure for follow-up action; and
(vii) comprehensive review of organization, practices and procedures
used by EDL's commercial and administrative departments.
(i) Review and suggest improvements to EDL's (i) administrative
procedures; and (ii) internal control systems, rules and regula-
tions. The areas to be covered by the review would include, but not
be limited to, establishment procedures, adequacy and direction of
communication flow and gaps therein, inter-departmental relation-
ships, and duplication of actions.



-48 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
(j) Prepare an Implementation Schedule for the various recomendations
and a description of the assistance required during implementation.
(k) Furnish quarterly reports to EDL management describing activities to
date and matters to which attention will be given during the coming
period.
(1) At the end of the Organization and Management component, furnish a
report describing matters that require continuing attention.
(m) Maintain at all times a proper liaison with the Finance, Accounting,
Budget and Control component.



- 49-                           ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Electricite du Laos
Program for Loss Reduction
Introduction
1.        Electricite du Laos (RDL) will form, not later than Match 31, 1987,
a task force to reduce distribution losses in all jurisdictions under EDL's
control. The task force,will be headed by a senior EDL engineer who will
report direr-ly to the General Manager. The task force will be authorized to
implement systems and procedures aimed at identifying and correcting irregular
connections while recommending policies for dealing with illegally connected
consumers.
Immediate Action Plan
2.        The Task Force will implement the measures, defined in Attachment A,
as the initial steps to be taken under this program; the steps will be taken
in accordance with the implementation schedule provided in Attachment B.
Elements of the Program
3.        The main responsibility of the task force will be to implement a
continuing action program to reduce losses. This task includes, but is not
necessarily limited to, the following:
(a) review of the meter reading system, number and location of main con-
sumer groups, operations of metering unit, maintenance and calibra-
tion of meters, and estimation of hardware and software requirements
for the management of an efficient metering system. Where warran-
ted, unusable meters should be replaced with new meters being pur-
chased under the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (Credit 1197-LA).
(b) systematically on an area by area basis, conduct periodic inspec-
tions of all service lines within EDL's area of jurisdiction, iden-
tify and correct irregular connections. this inspection would be
conducted according to a regular schedule with inspection crews
being rotated from area to area such that the same inspectors would
not have sole responsibility for specific service lines;
(c) together with the task force seeking to reduce accounts receivable,
review of the organization of the billing and collection system,
monitoring and control procedures, hardware being purchased under
the computerization program, and software requirements for an effi-
cient billing and collection system, and make changes to the billing
system to ensure its accuracy and effectiveness; and



-50-                            ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
(d) review of connection/reconnection policies and operational prac-
tices, penalties for illegal connections, analysis of proposals for
improvements/reorganization of these functions, and implement penal-
ties as a credible cure for irregularities.
Reporting
3.        Every six months, EDL management will prepare for review with the
Association, a concise report that will contain:
(a) a brief sumary of the main problems and findings;
(b) a detailed description of suggested projects/programs that could
further reduce losses; and
(c) an estimate of the quantity and cost of equipment and software
systems, which could be financed from the proposed project, which
EDL would like to use.
Task Force Preparation
4.        The Task Force will prepare for this assignment by requiring the
following:
(a) updated consumer connection/reconnection and meter records;
(b) updated information regarding billing and collection policies,
practices and performance data; and
(c) meetings with all relevant parties, jointly and severally, involved
in the metering, billing, collection and financial departments for
the purpose of obtaining needed coordination between units.
IDA Assistance
5.        The Association would consider favorably financing modest expendi-
tures for software systems or technical assistance that EDL may request for
use in implementing this program.



-51-                       AME 
Attachment A
Immediate Action Plan for Reducing Losses
Toward achieving the above objective the following action plan has
been formulated by EDL:
(a) A Technical Inspection cell consisting of one engineer with twelve
support staff is formed to study and formulate the plan of action to
reduce transmission/distribution losses.
(b) Augmentation of meter reading staff to ensure monthly readings
during 23rd to 5th of the next month. This would ensure fairly
simultaneous reading of all consumers, to check with monthly read-
ings at supply points. This procedure is expected to give a fair
assessment of actual losses in the system. Random spot check of
meter readings will also be introduced.
(c) It is proposed to establish a program for testing of meters of
consumers at least once in two years. This would ensure correct
working of meters.
(d) It is proposed to establish one or more central meter testing labo-
ratories with adequate meter testing facilities to enable large
scale testing of meters on a regular basis to cover item (c) above,
as well as test new meters to be connected under VPRE I and VPRE II
scheme. A sepsrate proposal would be presented to IDA to provide
finance for acquiring necessary testing facilities.
(e) It is proposed to collect statistical data on heavily loaded load
centers to study the loading pattern which would pin point areas
which would require modification to reduce losses. After this
study, necessary steps iuuh as reconductoring of transmission/dis-
tribution lines, improvement of power factor, balancing of load on
all three phases etc. will be carried out.
(f) It is proposed to introduce power factor restriction on large con-
sumers. They would be required to improve the power factor to 0.95
to 0.98 level either with their own provisions or incorporation of
the same by EDL at their expense.
(g) All future NV consumers would be required to provide metering at 1W
level to ensure that the cost of transformer losses is to consumers
account. Alternatively, EDL is contemplating a minimum additional
charge to HV consumers to compensate for transformer losses.
(h) EDL is collecting data on the connected loads on each of the trans-
formers. After completion of this, it is proposed to replace very
lightly loaded transformers with smaller rated ones to reduce no
load losses. It is expected that this program can be completed by
end 1988.



ANNEX 7
Attachment 8
LAOS
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATEON PROJECT
Tentative Program for Reducing Losses in the Syster
Description                                         1987      1988      1989       1990      1991       1992      1993      1994       1995             Remarks
Replacement of faculty meters                      2,500     3,000     3,000        500
Shifting of meters outside the houses              2,500     2,500     1,500
for access to meter reading
Establishment of meter testing facilities                   ----                                                                                  Require consultancy
services and funds
from foreign agencies
Collection of data of complete system             --       
and loads and optimization study
Replacement of old service connections              0.20      0.50       1.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0
KM        KM        K          of        KM4       KM         KM        Km        KM
Replacement of transformers to match loads       --------------
Installation of static condeAsers                                    ---------------------------------------------------                          Quantities and time
schedule for thia
wilt-be decided based
on the distribution
study.
Reconductoring of HV lines                          2 km      2 km      4 km       4 km
zeconductoring of LV lines                                            ___________________________________________________________
Addition of lWh meters at transformers                 2        10         6          2         2          2         2         2          2
substatlons and modification of cabinets



- 53 -                           ANNE  a
Page I of 3
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Electricite du Laos
Program for Reducing Accounts Receivable
Introduction
1.        Electricite du Laos (EDL) has formed a task force to reduce accounts
receivable in all jurisdictions under EDL's control. The task force is headed
by a Deputy General Manager who reports directly to the General Manager. The
task force would be authorized to implement changes in EDL's billing
procedures so as to make bills more accurate and their rendering more timely
while recommending methods of enforcing collections.  The task force will have
as its objectives: (a) significantly improving the collection of current
billings; (b) making arrangements to collect over time, a significant part of
past arrears; and (c) making arrangements to write down that portion of past
arrears that it considers uncollectable.
Immediate Action Plan
2.        The Task Force has already identified measures, defined in
Attachment A, as the initial steps to be taken under this program; and the
targets, defined in Attachment B, as the immediate quantifiable objectives of
this program.
Elements of the Program
3.        The main responsibility of the task force will be to implement a
continuing action program to reduce accounts receivable. This task includes,
but is not limited to the following:
(a) Verification that all connected customers have accounts and are
being billed;
(b) Segregation of accounts receivable into those outstanding for more
than one year and those outstanding for less;
(c) For accounts receivable outstanding for more than one year, develop
terms for settling these arrears over time. Arrangements should be
made to write down any portion of these arrears which are to be
forgiven as part of the settlement;
(d) For accounts receivable outstanding for less than one year,
determine which of those are not collectable. Arrangements should
be made to write down those accounts; in the event that those
accounts are still receiving power, they should be disconnected as
rapidly as possible;



- 54 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 27of 3
(e) Ensuring that all installed meters are functioning properly and that
malfunctioning meters are replaced;
f) Ensuring that reading of meters is done accurately and regularly;
(g) Development of a program to rotate meter readers so as to avoid
collusion between them and consumers;
(h) Modification of billing procedures to simplify the development,
rendering andltracking of bills and monitoring of payment;
(i) Development of procedures, such as the use of banks or small
*   neighborhood EDL offices, to simplify cash payment. of bills;
(j) Development of procedures to simplify the offset of government
related receivables, including receivables for electricity sold to
government agencies and government employees, against remittances to
government (this would involve the government making adjustments
through corresponding reductIons of budget allocations to agencies
representing consumers);
(k) Monitor closely current billing and collection;
(1) Develop a policy (and procedures for implementation of that policy)
to persuade defaulting consumers to meet their current obligations,
including current bills and agreed remittances against past arrears;
(m) Develop a program to use EDL's senior management to persuade large
government agencies and importint commercial enterprises to meet
their current obligations;
(n) Develop a policy (and procedures for implementation of that policy)
to disconnect defaulting consumers who could not otherwise be
persuaded to make their payments in a timely manner; and
(o) Develop a policy (and procedures for implementation of that policy)
of periodic tariff reviews, to be conducted at intervals of not less
than once a year, to assure the financial appropriateness of tariff
levels while also avoiding the need for sudden steep tariff
increases.
Reporting
4.        The task force will develop and ensure that the following reports
are produced. These reports would be available to the Association for review
and comment:
(a) every month, a schedule identifying all accounts receivable (numbers
of receivables and the financial amounts represented thereby)
according to time outstanding and to customer category; and



55 _                         ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
(b) every six months, a brief report providing analysis of the current
status of accounts receivables and suggested methods for reducing
their sixe and scope.
Task Force Preparation
5.        The Task Force will prepare for this assignment by requiring the
following:
(a) Updated consumer connection/reconnection and meter records;
(b) Updated information regarding billing and collection policies,
practices, and performance data; and
(e) meetings with all relevant parties, jointly and severally, involved
in the metering, billing, collection, and financial departments, for
the purpose of arranging needed coordination between units.
IDA Assistance
6.        The Association would consider favorably financing modest
expenditures for software systems and/or technical assistance for use in
implementing this program.



-56 -                         ANNEX 8
Attachment A
Immediate Action Plan for Reducing of Receivables from Consumers
Several areas have been identified in an effort to reduce outstand-
ings to acceptable levels. These are discussed below:
(a) Opening of additional cash collection centers. Up to December 1986,
EDL had only one cash collection center situated at Sisaket. In
January 1987, six new cash collection centres have been opened in
major municipal areas viz Saythanee, South Vientiane, Nasaythong,
Ban Keun in Vientiane and Num Ngum region and Kilometre 52 region in
the VPRE zone. This will facilitate collections from consumers in
various areas away from the main collection center at Sisaket.
(b) Bills become due for payment within 30 days of service. Consumers
failing to p^y within due date will be served weekly reminders for a
period of three weeks. Consumers failing to pay within their dues
within 60 days from service of bill will be liable for
disconnection.
(c) In case of Government employees, it is proposed that the employer
will adjust the amount of electricity bills against the salary of
the employees and pay periodically consolidated amounts to EDL.
(d)  In case of Government agencies, Ministries, etc. payment will be
obtained from the Bank against budgetted allocations made available
to them.
(e) In case of State Enterprises and large industrial consumers, it is
proposed to enter into agreements stipulating the time period for
payments of bills by transfer from their bank accounts.
(f) The reasons for the delay presently experienced in preparation and
submission of bills is under close scrutiny and various measures
such as delinking of operations of meter reading and bill
submission/collection, increase in staff and supporting transport
vehicles, reducing bottlenecks in bill preparation, are under active
consideration.
(g) An exercise has been undertaken to identify old outstanding which
are considered irrecoverable for various reasons so that the
Ministry may be approached for writing off these outstandings.
(h) The electricity tariff will be reviewed more often by EDL to avoid
steep adhoc increases leading to an increase in the arrears. In
order to make it easier for the consumers to clear the arrears EDL
has decided to accept payments in installment.
(i)  Since January 1987, EDL has reorganized the staff available into
five subdivisions, one of which will be responsible for meter
reading and preparation of billing data. This is expected to result
in faster and more efficient billing.



ANNEX 8
Attachment B
Page 1 of 2
LAO S
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Programs for Arrears Realization from 1987-90
Plan for 1987
1st semester  2nd semester       1988
Category                              Jan-June       July-Dec      Mar-June  1989  1990                 Remark
State agencies                           20%            6n%           20%                  After realization of the past
arrears the permissible time for
future outstandings will be 60
days.
State enterprises                        30%            60%           10%
Public and individuals                   20X            5(%
State employees                          28%            252           25%
Diplomatic corps and agencies            452            80%
Irrigation pumping stations                             70%           30%
Irrecoverable debts                                    IO(%                                It has been proposed to obtain
permission from Ministry to write
off these arrears.
Provincial debts                         50%            50%



AME  8
Attachment B
Page 2 of 2
.
LAOS
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELF.CTRIFICATION PROJECT
Programs for Arrears Realization from 1987-90
Amt. of arrears          Ptan for 1987
on  1.12.86     Ist semester  2nd semester
Category                            x 10  (Kips)        Jan-June       July-Dec       1988    19R9    1990       Remarks
State agencies                         75,820             3.3128        10,32R       15,164
State enterprises                      22,245              7,873        15,747       2,625                                    0
Public and individuals                148,349             51,922        51,922      44,505
State employees                       222,523             55.611        55,631      55,631  55,630
Diplomatic corps & agencies              1,468               697           697           74
IrrigatLon pumping stations            31,749                  -        22,224       9,525
Irrecoverable debts                     6,497                            6.497                               Amount to be
written off.
Provincial debts                      153,670             76,835        76,835            -       -       -



ANNEX 9
- 59 -
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Scope of Works for Provincial Electrification Components
Works                                  Savannakhet    Champassak       Saravane
22 kV medium voltage lines
and spurs (km)                            191            186            75
400 V/230 V distribution lines (km)          90            144            52
22 kV/400 V/230 V transformers (no.)         45             72            27
Villages to be electrified (no.)             45             72            27
Households to be electrified (no.)        3,000          4,000         1,000
Pole factories
Concrete pole (no.)                         -              1             _
Wooden pole treatment (no.)                                1             -
Warehouses (no.)                              1              2             1
Source: EDL.



- 60 -                           ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Criteria for the Selection of Rural Electrification Projects
General Principles
1.        The focus of planning should be on integral rural energy development
rather than on rural electrification alone.
2.        Rural energy and electrification should be considered as one compo-
nent of overall rural development policy, recognizing that simultaneous provi-
sion of energy, infrastructure, credit, equipment, and production inputs is
necessary to make economic development happen (Attachment 1).
3.        Rural electrification should be shown to be part of the least-cost
way to satisfy an area's energy needs. This means that the most economical
solution of the energy supply is a combination of central-grid supply, isola-
ted generation, renewable energy, etc., with a rural electrification project
as an important component of the integrated package.
4.        As integrated rural energy program packages can differ in the
quality of energy supplied, it is necessary to maximize the present value of
net benefits of such a program. Within this framework, a thorough economic
_ost/benefit analysis needs to be performed for the rural electrification
component, bearing in mind that the main benefits of electrification are
derived from the use of lower-cost energy as compared to alternatives
available to consumers.
Steps in Project Selection
5.        Step 1:  Screening and preselection of areas.  This permits a rank-
ing of potential projects before engaging in full cost/benefit studies. It
allows substantial savings in analyst/consultant time and resources at the
prefeasibility stage. The following screening techniques can be employed:
(a)  Scoring by assigning values to selected key parameters ("NRECA
method"). Based on available data and analysts' judgments, expected
benefits (substitution, production increases, employment, social
benefits, domestic resource use) and expected costs (network, supply
options) are assigned values, say from 1 to 5, weighted by the scale
of the benefit. Each area thus obtains a composite "score" for
benefits and costs, and can be ranked by using this simplified bene-
fit/cost ratio.
(b)  Regression analysis.  Based on a sample of past projects, the actual
observed rate of return is related to characteristics of the area
(population density, existing production facilities, infrastructure,
etc.) thought to influence the success of the projects. The result-



- 60                             ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Criteria for the Selection of Rural Electrification Projects
General Principles
1.        The focus of planning should be on integral rural energy development
rather than on rural electrification alone.
2.        Rural energy and electrification should be considered as one compo-
nent of overall rural development policy, recognizing that simultaneous provi-
sion of energy, infrastructure, credit, equipment, and production inputs is
necessary to make economic development happen (Attachment 1).
3.        Rural electrification should be shown to be part of the least-cost
way to satisfy an area's energy needs. This means that the most economical
solution of the energy supply is a combination of central-grid supply, isola-
ted generation, renewable energy, etc., with a rural electrification project
as an important component of the integrated package.
4.        As integrated rural energy program packages can differ in the
quality of energy supplied, it is necessary to maximize the present value of
net benefits of such a program. Within this framework, a thorough economic
.ost/benefit analysis needs to be performed for the rural electrification
component, bearing in mind that the main benefits of electrification are
derived from the use of lower-cost energy as compared to alternatives
available to consumers.
steps in Project Selection
5.        Step 1:  Screening and preselection of areas.  This permits a rank-
ing of potential projects before engaging in full cost/benefit studies. It
allows substantial savings in analyst/consultant time and resources at the
prefeasibility stage. The following screening techniques can be employed:
(a) Scoring by assigning values to selected key parameters ("NRECA
method"). Based on available data and analysts' judgments, expected
benefits (substitution, production increases, employment, social
benefits, domestic resource use) and expected costs (network, supply
options) are assigned values, say from 1 to 5, weighted by the scale
of the benefit. Each a.rea thus obtains a composite "score" for
benefits and costs, and can be ranked by using this simplified bene-
fit/cost ratio.
(b) Regression analysis. Based on a sample of past projects, the actual
observed rate of return is related to characteristics of the area
(population density, existing production facilities, infrastructure,
etc.) thought to influence the success of the projects. The result-



- 61 -                           ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
ing empirical relationship can then be used to rank potential new
project areas by expected rate of return.
(c) Discriminant analysis. Past projects are separated into feasible
and infeasible groups, and their characteristics examined. New
project areas that display characteristics of the infeasible group
are ranked below those with characteristics conducive to feasibil-
ity.
6.        Step 2:  Demand projections for selected high-ranked potential proj-
ect areas. Based on thorough "area energy audits" (field surveys, etc.), a
detailed forecast for all major energy end-uses is prepared (lighting, cook-
ing, motive power, pumping, etc.)* The demand projections should take into
account:
(a) existing uses of alternatives;
(b) economic development potential;
(c)  population and income growth;
sd) existing if complementary facilities; and
(e) current and projected energy prices, and price elasticity of demand.
7.        Step 3:  Least-cost design of the energy supply package.  Based on
the demand projections, the least-cost combination of energy sources to
satisfy demand is designed, bearing in mind all relevant alternatives. Withih
the least-cost energy supply solution, a subset of least-cost design is the
rural electrification component. Cost minimization of this component will
include:
(a) focusing on the differences between options (i.e., grid supply,
minihydro, isolated diesel, renewable);
(b) optimizing rather than maximizing the reliability of the system by
assessing the trade-off between outage cost and network cost as
valued by the consumer;
(c) selecting the optimum size of the project area by taking advantage
of the economies of scale;
(d) establishing rules of thumb for decisions whether or not to connect
individual villages;
(e) optimizing the timing of investment; and
(f) taking advantage of available computer software for optimizing of
network design.
8.        Step 4:  Economic cost/benefit analysis of the project.  The cost/
benefit analysis of the designed rural electrification project should be con-



-62 -                           AWNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
ducted in economic terms, i.e., using shadow prices that eliminate distortions
in the economy, and quantifying all costs and benefits related to the project,
both directly and indirectly. Benefits should be primarily based on cost
savings arising from substitution, and on consumers' valuation of incremental
electricity supply. Attachment 2 illustrates the methodology and data
requirements for a typical cost/benefit analysis. The resulting internal rate
of return should be at least equal to tho estimated opportunity cost of
capital in the economy, say 10-12X.
9.        Step 5:  Financial impact of the project.  Having established the
economic feasibility of the project, the impact of its implementation out the
financial performance of the utility needs to be eamined. Using anticipated
tariffs (which should be consistent with the demand forecast), the financial
internal rate of return should be calculated. If it is unsatisfactory, tariff
increases or a redesigning of the project to a lower standard should be
contemplated.
Project-Specific Measures
10.       In order to build up a database on rural socioeconomic characteris-
tics for later use in screening of potential project reas, EDL would collect
the following village data in the course of implementation of the proposed
Southern Provinces Electrification Project and, preferably, also in the
Vientiane Plain:
(a) population;
(b) number of households;
(c)  number of persons per household
(d) number of schools, health centers;
(e) number of shops and rice mills;
(f) number of pumps;
(g) land owned per household;
(h) appliances owned per household;
(i) number of livestock per household; and
(j) annual cash income per household.



- 63 -
=NEX 10
Attaghment I
(RD)
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RD
determines
RN
RURAL
ENERGY      CY         OTHER RURAL DEVELOPMENT     --
(R N)                   INVESTMENTS/POLICIES
linkage
coefficients
4?
F    ~I                                                  I <   I   -__ 
R.E.      Forestry      Pet. Products       Biogas             i
el          e2              e3 i4                          etc.
I            I                                I    
Procedure:         Minimise  pi ei for given quality-weighted RD
CY - complementarity between rural energy and
other investments, social policy etc.
CY is determined by the coefficients linking
non-energy policies to el, e2 etc.
Prgramming A2Droach to Rural Eneray Provision



-64 -                        ANNEX 1O
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
Economic Analysis of a Rural Electrification Project
Methodology
1.        The method selected for economic analysis is a cost-saving approach
that attempts to quantify net benefit for users of the supply system. In this
approach, electricity is considered as one alternative source of energy and
compared to other energy sources yielding the same result, such as diesel
motors for industry, diesel pumps for irrigation, and kerosene for domestic
lighting.
2.        The cost-saving approach implies that new electricity consumers in
rural areas are switching from alternative energy to electricity, or if elec-
tricity would not be supplied, many would obtain alternative energy sources.
It is possible that, had electricity not been provided in the areas, some
rural electricity consumers who have obtained electric connections might not
have purchased an alternative power source. The underlying assumption is a
downward sloping demand curve for rural energy inputs with respect to price.
Required Information
3.        Definition of Project Area.  This includes a clear geographical
indication of the total area that is to be covered, with explanations of the
selection criteria used. The socioeconomic and other considerations that
enter into the project area definition should be listed.
4.        Demand Forecasts.  Expected development of numbers of connections,
overall consumption growth, and maximum demand, by consumer category. Assump-
tions for demand forecasts should be area-specific and take into account expe-
rience gained so far in electrified areas. Assumptions about the effect of
expected measures restricting unlimited use of irrigation pumps to off-peak
times should be specified.
5.        Incremental Tariff Revenuet  Year-wise revenue from sales, by con-
sumer category (identify kWh sold). The existing facilities and sales in the
project area should be identified and their incorporation into the future
structure discussed.
6.        Physical Works.  Details of works to be performed, amounts of
materials to be installed, by category (i.e., conductor types, transformers,
switchgear, insulators, poles, etc.) (a possible format is suggested in
Appendix 1).
7.        Investment Costs.  Economic:  a separate presentation of costs
should split each component into CIF cost, domestic transport, local mate-
rials, equipment charge, skilled labor, unskilled labor (all excluding taxes
and duties if possible, and expressed in constant prices), and should adjust
each local component to border prices (shadow price) if necessary and possible
(Appendix 2).
8.        Recurrent Cost of Installed Facilities.  Economic: marginal cost of
electricity at the supply voltage (the cost/kWh consumed should be adjusted



-65-                 ~~~~~ANNEX 10
- 65 -                        Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
upwards to reflect line losses to retail level), operating and maintenance
cost incurred including all additional investment due to demand growth. All
costs expressed in constant terms and split into CIF and various local ele-
ments and shadow-priced as under (7).
9.        Private Costs Related to Project and Alternative
(a) Private costs (excluding electricity charge) associated with the
proposed project and incurred by retail consumers, including house-
wiring investment in electricity-using facilities and equipment, and
their maintenance.
(b) All costs associated with satisfying the same energy requirement
from alternative energy sources in the absence of the project,
including investment in diesel pumps and engines, kerosene leaps,
etc., and their operation, maintenance, and fuel needed to achieve
benefits similar to project.
(c) Both project-related and alternative private costs expressed in
constant terms, split into CIF and various local elements and shadow
priced (e.g., fuel at realistic international price). (A suggested
format is shown in Appendix 3.)
10.       Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Project.  Using an appropriate
lifetime of the project, and correlating demand growth with needed investment
up to an appropriate cut-off point, the cost and benefit streams are as
follows:
(a) Cost Streams: para. 7, investment cost; para. 8, recurrent cost and
cost of power; and para. 9(a) private cost (excluding tariff).
(b) Benefit Stream: para. 9(b) private cost of alternative, adjusted to
reflect a realistic mix of valuation of energy supply by the con-
sumer. This should involve the attaching of a value equivalent that
lies between the cost of the oil alternative and the assumed minimum
willingness to pay (the proposed retail tariff level plus capital
and O&M costs for running the electric alternative). If a signifi-
cant part of expected electricity demand is due to conversion of
existing or expected alternative energy sources (diesel pumping,
kerosene lighting, etc.), this share of project output should be
valued at full alternative cost as in para. 9(b). The remainder,
i.e., demand that would not be present in the absence of the proj-
ect, should be valued at less than full alternative cost but more
than minimum observed value, depending on the shape of the demand
curve. A suggested method is shown in Appendix 4.
11.       The net present value at a range of discount rates between 8% and
12Z, and the internal rate of return of the project should be calculated.
Sensitivity analysis should deal with the variation of major components of the
cost and benefit estimates.



AMU 10
- 66 -                        Attacbment 2
Appendix 1
Table: Physical Targets by Year
Target                               Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Substations (no.)
11 kV lines (km)
etc.
Domestic connections (no.)
Agricultural connections (no.)
etc.



AMh   10
- 67 -                       Attachment 2
Appendix 2
Economic Cost Data
1. Tables Economic Cost of Project (constant market prices)
Year 1                        Year 2
Local      Local            Total exc1.
CIF transport materials Labor duty & taes CIF etc.
Preconstruction
expenditure
Buildings, roads
Equipment/material
Substation con-
struction
Line construction
Construction con-
nections
etc.
2. Table: Economic Cost of Project (constant CIF-eguivalent prices)
As above, with local items adjusted to border-equivalent costs by
using appropriate adjustment factors, that adequately approximate the elimina-
tion of duties, taxes, and other distortions from the domestic prices. Labor
should be shadow priced to reflect the differential between the domestic wage
and the estimated value of marginal product of labor in alternative uses. if
it is not feasible to estimate individual adjustment factors, a standard
conversion factor ad a labor conversion factor should be used.



ANN   10
- 68 -                         Attachment 2
Appendiz 3
Private Costs of Project and Alternative
Private Investment and Maintenance Cost Connected with Rural Electrification
1.        Domestic Lighting
(a) Annuitize capital cost of house wiring and lighting fixtures, using
life of equipment and appropriate interest rate.
(b) Estimate annual maintenance and replacement cost of domestic light-
ing facilities.
2.        Irrigation Pumping
(a) Annuitize investment cost in pumpset, pumphouse, installation and
wiring, using life of equipment and appropriate interest rate.
(b) Estimate annual maintenance and spares cost for pumping equipment.
3.        Small industrial and commercial consumption should be treated in the
same manner as domestic and agricultural use.
Total Private Cost Related to a Nonelectric Alternative to the Project
4.        Domestic Lighting
(a) Annuitize capital cost of kerosene lighting considered equivalent to
the expected output of electric lighting, using life of equipment
and appropriate interest rate.
(b) Estimate annual maintenance and replacement cost of equipment.
(c) Estimate fuel consumption per kWh equivalent, and value at realistic
international price.
5.        Irrigation Pumping
(a) Annuitize investment cost in diesel pumpset, pumphouse, and instal-
lation, using life of equipment and appropriate interest rate. Note
that rated horsepower of diesel engine may have to be larger than
that of electric to produce same water output over time.
(b) Estimate annual maintenance and spares cost for pumping equipment
(including a provision for operator labor if this is considered
necessary for diesel rather than electric).
(c) Estimate fuel and lubricant consumption per kWh equivalent, and
value at realistic international price.
6.        Alternative energy sources for small industrial and commercial use
should be treated in the same manner.



- 69-                           ANNEX 10
Attachment 2
Appendix 4
Valuation of Economic Benefits
1.   (a)  Maximum value attached by the consumer to supply of, energy for a
particular purpose = full value per connection equivalent of the
alternative to electrification (Appendix 3, section 2).
(b) Minimum observed value attached by consumer to supply of energy for
a particular purpose   tariff revenue plus capital and-O&M costs for
running the electric alternative per connection for the relevant
consumer category. This should be based on the tariff structure
expected to be implemented.
2.        If the share of incremental kWh under the project attributable to
conversion of existing alternative sources of energy or replacement of expec-
ted alternative is xX, then this share of annual kWh consumption should be
valued at the Maximum Value of the alternative. The remainder (100-xZ) should
be valued at a level between the Maximum and Minimum Values, implying a
downward-sloping demand curve for energy supply.
(a) Straight-line demand curve: the value of the incremental kWh is set
at the average of the Minimum and Maximum Values (representing, on
average, the consumer surplus under the demand curve).
(b) Concave demand curve: the value of the incremental kWh is set at
the average of the Minimum Value and the value according to the
straight-line curve under (a) (representing 50% of the straight-line
consumer surplus estimate).
(c) Step demand curve: the value of the incremental kWh to set at the
Minimum Value (conservative estimate).



ANE  11
-70-                          Page 1 of 2
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Engineering Services
Objectives
1.        The objectives of these services would be to assist Electricite du
Laos (EDL) in procurement, engineering and design, construction supervision
and management, and start-up, testing and commissioning of the packages
including pole factories, 113 kV transmission line and substation, and
province electrification components.
Scope of Services
2.        The scope of services to be provided by the Consultants is outlined
as follows:
(a) Discussion with EDL and EGAT (Electricity Generation Authority of
Thailand) for the details of interconnection (115 kV transmission
line);
(b) Revision of bid documents for transmission line, substations, pole
factories and distribution system equipment and materials;
(c)  Evaluation of bids and submissions of purchase recommendation for
award of contracts;
(d) Assistance to EDL in preparation of final contract documents for
entering into contract with suppliers;
(e) Review and approval of vendors' drawings;
(f) Factory inspection of equipment and materials manufactured by
suppliers and turn-key Contractors;
(g) Construction management for the turn-key packageos, viz. 'PSq' pole
factory, wood pole treatment factory and 115 kV transmission line
and substations, and warehouses;
(h) Supervision of commissioning of pole factories, transmission line
and substations; and
(i) Assistance to EDL in supervision of the distribution system
construction, inspection of materials on arrival at site and advice
on proper storage.



AMUl 11
- 71 -                      Page 2 of 2
Procedures to be Followed
3.        The procedures to be followed by the Consultants for the execution
of the services are given herebelow:
(a) Procurement procedures as set out in the Association's Guiaelines
for Procurement.
(b) Codes and practices laid down by the Government of Lao PDR and other
standards specified to achieve a safe and reliable system.
(c) Maximum use of locally available labor and material.
(d) Prompt submission of reports and documents needed by EDL and IDA.
(e) Preparation of detailed architectural, structural, electrical and
site layout drawings required for the project.
(f) Use of bar Charts of CPM techniques for project monitoring.
(g) Obtaining of EDL's comments on draft specifications, designs and
reports.
(h) Clearance with EDL and the Association of draft bidding documents
before tendering.
(i)  Provision of necessary assistance to DL in drafting procurement
contracts.
(j) Establishment of test procedures for the project and review of field
test report.
(k) Provision of assistance to EDL in technical discussions with EGAT
regarding interconnections.



ANNEX 12
-72-                             Page 1 of 4
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Future Hydroelectric Development Study
Objectives
1.        The objectives of this study are:  (i) to make a ranking study for
the identification of a most optimal site for future hydro development,
including the Selabam hydropower station extention and all sites already
identified in the Southern provinces; (ii) to prepare a final detailed
feasibility report of that site; and (iii) to provide consultants' services
for engineering and preparation of the selected project, or alternatively for
the engineering and implementation of the Selabam power station extension.
Scope of Work
2.        The scope of work to be carried out by the Consultants will be
performed in four phases as described below:
First Phase - Prefeasibility Study
(a) Field Investigation
The Consultants will augment the available data by carrying out
field investigations, including preliminary geological inspections
and topographical surveys of the potential sites and will confirm,
where possiblet, the existing meteorological records pertaining to
the catchment areas. The Consultants, during their field
investigations, will establish the availability of construction
materials in each site's vicinity, and will cost-out the transport
to site of these materials in sufficient quantities. The
Consultants will be expected to confirm to the extent possible, the
sites' geological conditions.
(b) Studies related to Selabam extension are: (i) laboratory hydraulic
model tests at the Asian Institute of Technology and (ii) analysis
leading to recommendations for improvements required for the
existing intake and the tailrace.
(c) Site Analysis
The Consultants will include, inter alia, in their analysis of each
site, its accessibility, any adverse ecological aspects and
resettlement problems, any problems likely to result from the site's
geological, seismic and tectonic conditions, and any potential
riparian issues involving tributaries of international waterways (in
this case, the Mekong River). The Consultants will also consider
the effect of upstream development on the existing Selabam power
station.



ANNEX 12
- 73 -                         Page 2 of 4
3.        Second Phase
(a)  Basic Layouts and Desi n
Based on their choice of the most suitable locations,
configurations, and structural types of the dam to be constructed,
the Consultants will prepare basic site layouts and designs of the
tunnel and/or penstock and/or surge-chamber and the hydromechanical,
generating Pnd electrical equipment, in so far as necessary to
evaluate and compare the costs of development various combinations
of energy and power capacities at each site. The study will
highlight individual likely difficulties and costs associated with
developing each site, such as access for heavy loads, access for
construction and maintenance of the associated transmission line,
resettlement costs, silting of the reservoir, and karstic faults in
the dam and power station vicinity. For each site, separate and
precise analysis will be made of the physical contingencies that the
Consultants recommend for inclusion in the site development cost
estimates to take account of uncertainties. The Consultants will
produce a construction schedule for each scheme analyzed, and a
forecast of (i) capaciZy and energy each scheme is likely to
deliver, (ii) any irrigation and downstream benefits such as
increases in low flows, and any resultant increases in the output of
the existing Selabam facility.
(b) Sequence of Site Development
Based on their review of the existing and collected data and the
basic designs produced, the Consultants will identify realistic
sequences of site development. Cost of production as well as cost
of delivered energy and power whicn will include the appropriate
transmission link associated with each site, will be identified.
The study will clearly identify the feasible least-cost sequence of
developing these alternative sites.
(c) Reporting
The Consultants will prepare an interim report covering the
recommendations for the most suitable site based on techAo-economic
analyses.
4.        Third Phase:  Feasibility Study.  After review by Government of the
recommendations of the interim report, the Consultants will proceed with a
full feasibility study of the scheme which Government selects. The work to be
carried out during this phase is summarized, but is not limited to, in the
following:
(a) detailed topographic investigations including topographical maps of
the project area to a scale of 1:1,000; and establishment of
triangulation points and bench marks where necessary through the
area;
(b) detailed hydrological investigation and flood analysis;



- 74 -ANNE  12
- 74 ~                     Page 3 of 4
(c) detailed geotechnical/geological investigations covering structural
geology, seismics, hydrogeology and construction materials.
(d) market survey and load forecast, including analysis of the
possibility for exporting surplus energy to Thailand;
(e) an optimized plant layout for the recommended site, including
analysis of dam-type and design, hydraulic steelwork design and
dimensions; plant type, design and capacity and number of
generators; intake trash-rake, and silt diversion and evacuation
equipment; substation layout; and coimunications and protection
equipment;
(f) reservoir and catchment area evaluation, analysis of tree and scrub
content in reservoir area and recommendations for removal; analysis
of reservoir permeability and evaporation and associated
reprecipitation;
(s) sedimentation study;
(h) construction planning and schedule including critical path analysis;
(i) environmental impact study including a concise analysis of the
likely ecological effects on water, flora, fauna, fisheries, and
local population upstream and downstream of the site and reservoir;
a schedule and recommendations including costs for the resettlement
of villagers in the reservoir area;
,j) cost estimate and disbursement schedule; and
(k) economic justification analysis, including benefits and risks.
5.        Fourth Phase.  The Consultants will carry out the following services
for the selected project:
(a) detailed engineering and design; and
(b) preparation of bidding documents for the procurement of equipment
and materials and for civil works construction.
6.        During this phase, if the Selabam extension is proven to be the most
attractive alternative, the services would also include the following:
(a) Invitation for prequalification of bidders;
(b) Preparation of bidding documents for supply and construction;
(c) Evaluation of bids and submiision of purchase recommendations for
award of contract;
(d) Assistance to EDL in preparation of final contract documents;



AMUX 12
75-Pe  4 of 4
(e) Review and approval of Contractor's drawingos
(f) Factory inspection of turbine generator, associated auxiliaries,
transformers, control panels and other electrical equipment;
(g) Construction supervision; and
(h) Supervision of start-up testing and comissioning of the Unit.



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
- 76 -
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate /a
(US$1000)
Local           Foreign         Total
Xeset 115 kV Interconnection
Transmission lines (115 km)              458.0          4,155.0        4,613.0
Substation                               389.0          1,891.0        2,280.0
Subtotal                           847.0          6,046.0        6,893.0
Selabam Hydro Station Extension            429.0          3,312.0        32741.0
Provincial Electrification
Savannakhet
22 kV lines                            362.0            918.0        1,280.0
400 V/230 V lines                       98.3            152.0          250.3
Extension of existing substation        27.1            181.0          208.1
Disbribution transform^:rs              30.0            397.0          427.0
Construction equipment atid tools       26.3            532.0          558.3
Warehouses                             316.1            120.0          436.1
House wiring and connections           180.2            386.0          566.2
Subtotal                         1,040.0          2,686.0        3,726.0
Champassak
22 kV lines                            348.0            891.0        1,239.0
4OOv/230v lines                        156.9            234.0          390.9
Disbribution transformers               47.3            618.0          665.3
Construction equipment and tools        32.3            646.0          678.3
Concrete pole factory                  568.1          2,038.0        2,606.1
Wooden pole treatment factory          445.1            577.0        1,022.1
Warehouses                             505.0            192.0          697.0
House wiring and connections           226.3            478.0          704.3
Subtotal                         2,329.0          5,674.0        8,003.0



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
- 77 -
Local          Foreign         Total
Provincial Electrification (cont'd)
Saravane
22 kV lines                            140.2            369.0         509.2
400 V/230 V lines                       69.3            101.0          170.3
Disbribution transformers               17.6            231.0          248.6
Construction equipment and tools        26.2            524.0          550.2
Warehouses                             189.1             72.0          261.1
House wiring and connections            56.6            126.0          182.6
Subtotal                          499.0          1,423.0        1,922.0
Future Hydroelectric Development
Study                                      350.0          1,698.0        2,048.0
Institutional Development                  100.0          1,560.0        1,660.0
Engineering and Supervision                188.0            752.0          940.0
Total Base Cost                  5,782.0        23,151.0       28,933.0
Contingencies
Physical                                 398.0          19763.0       2,161.0
Price                                    349.0          1,191.0        1,540.0
Total Project Cost              6,529.0         26,105.0       32,634.0
/a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



ANNEX 14
- 78 -
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Procurement PackLes
Package                                                           Type of con-
number                      Description                          tract proposed
1         ASCR and AAC conductors                            Conventional
2         22 kV and 400 V lnsulators and hardware            Conventional
3         115 kV transmission line (supply & erection)       Turnkey
4         115 kV/22 kV substation (supply and erectioi.)    Turnkey
5         22 kVIQ.4 kV transformers                          Conventional
6         Service connections and house wiring               Conventional
7         High tensile steel                                 Conventional
8         Portland cement                                    Conventional
9         Heavy engines and vehicles                         Conventional
10         Transmission line construction
equipment and tools                             Conventional
11         Prestressed concrete pole factory                  Turnkey
12         Wooden pole treatment factory                      Turnkey
13         Pour warehouses                                    Turnkey
14         Selabam station rehabilitation and extension       Turnkey
15         Communication facilities                           Conventional
16         Meter testing laboratory equipment and meters    Conventional
17         Billing machine and office equipment              Conventional



ANNEX 15
- 79 -
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Electricit6 du Laos
Credit Disbursement Schedule
Assumptions              Loan Signing:             August 1987
Effective Date:           October 1987
Closing Date:             June 30, 1993
IDA fiscal year       Disbursement (USs min)           Percent disbursement
and semester         Semester    Cumulative    Project    Regional profile /a
1988
December 31, 1987        -            -            0.0              1.0
June 30, 1988           3.1          3.1          12.0              3.0
1989
December 31, 1988       5.0          8.1          31.0              9.0
June 30, 1989           7.0         15.1          58.0             17.0
1990
December 31, 1989       4.0         19.1          73.0             29.0
June 30, 1990           2.0         21.1          81*0             42.0
1991
December 31, 1990       1.5         22.6          87.0             55.0
June 30, 1991           1.2         23.8          92.0             67.0
1992
December 31, 1991       1.0         24.8          95*0             77.0
June 30, 1992           0.6         25.4          98.0            85.0
1993
December 31, 1992      0.4          25.8         100.0            91.0
/a Based on Regional profile for power projects; no profile is available spe-
cifically for rural electrification projects in the Disbursement Profiles
updated in October 1985.



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 20
- 80 -
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Table of Contents
Key Financial Indicators                         2
Income Statement                                 3
Flow of Funds Statement                          4
Balance Sheet                                    S
Derivation of Average Tariff                     6
Annual Investment Program                        7
Capitalization Values                            8
Fixed Asset Formation                            9
Financing of Investment                         10
Borrowings Summary                              11
IBRD Loan Parameters                            12
Government Finance                              13
Sales and Generation                            14
Direct Cash Flow                                15
Dividends and Reserves                          16
Receivables and Payables                        17
Assumptions to Financial Projections            18



Electricite du Laos - Financial Statements - 1982-19S4                                                                18-ay-S7
LAD PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT                                        Page 2
ELECTRICITE DU LAS                                                       of 20
ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATENENTS
Key Financial Indicators
(USS Nillion)
Financial Year Ended Dec. 31          1982     1983      1984     1985     1986     1987      19B8     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993     1994
~~~~~~~~- -                                              ------tal--------------- proiections-  - -
POEF SOLD  (%kWb)                      858      819      844       047      81l      824      865       864      866      963      l017     1037     1039
AVOERAE REVENUE (US$IkNh)            0.029    0.031    0.033    0.051    0.040    0.033    0.034    0.036    0.037    0.037    0.039    0.041    0.044
AVG. REVENUE - CONSTANT PRICES                                            0.040    0.032    0.033    0.034    0.035    0.034    0.035    0.035    0.037
OPERATIN6 RENnUE                      24.5     26.8     29.3      44.9     34.7     29.5      32.4     33.8     35.1      39.4     43.7     46.9     50.9
TOt. OP. EIP. & TAtES                  6.3      9.4      9.0      17.8     17.7     19.0     21.1      22.7     24.0     25.8      2B.4     31.0     33.4
MET OPERATING INCOME                  18.1     17.4     20.2      27.1     21.0     14.7      16.4     16.5     16.9     19.8      22.1     24.0     26.1
NET INCOI  AFTER TAX                  17.9     16.9     19.6      26.1     15.1      8.5       7.4      6.7      6.4      8.2       9.5      6.6      7.8
DIVIkENO                              17.8     16.9     19.6      24.9     13.1      6.4       5.0      4.2      3.8      5.3       6.3      3.2      4.2
TOTAL RENITTANCES TO 6OYT.            17.8     16.9     19.6      24.B     17.0     10.6      10.1      9.6      9.5      11.6     13.2     11.3     12.8           Projected
RATE BASE                             36.0     70.4      67.1     69.3     71.2     68.9      74.4     87.0     93.8    104.7    130.6    152.7    175.1               oe
IW8-1"4
I'IIRARY RATtOS:
RATE OF RET.- HIST. ASSETS                  24. 1    30.11    39.11    23.92    15.31    15.21    12.7n    11.92    13.02    11.72    10.4?    10.02                 12.52
RATE OF RET.- REVAL. ASSETS                                              9.3?     4.52      5.02     4.5t     4.41     5.6?      5.6?     5.2.     5.12               5.0O
SELF FINANCIN6 RATIO              102.11    57.2?   451.92   294.2?   128.7?    74.9?    58.82    40.9       31.22    29.5      64.n     81.0?   199.0t              72.52
D£0t SERVICE COVERAE               50.0      4.1      15.0      2.9      1.0      7.3       4.2      3.7      2.6       1.3      1.3      1.2      1.2                2.9
DEBTIDEST PLUSS EBUITY              6.92     7.42    18.22    27.5?    21.6?    22.5?    31.7       38.n     42.02    45.7?    47.0?    46.6?    46.52               40.22      I
DIVIDEND YIELD                     23.82    23.02    28.41    40.72    19.n       9.5?      7.8?     6.2?     5.12      7.12     8.92     4.9?     7.32               7.12
OPERATn G RATIO                    25.92    35.1?    30.9      39.6?    39.6?    50.1?    49.6U    51.31    51.92    4.n 7       N .32    4.9     4.n                4.9?
CURRENT RATIO                     117.42   220.92   104.1?   127.91   131.21   121.7n    94.42    83.01    83.62   1O4.62   109.7?   112.52   124.91                104.3?
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE - NMS.          2.9      2.9      3.9       5.4      4.9      5.0       4.7      4.4      4.0       4.0      4.1      4.2       4.4               4.4
ACCOUNTS PAYADLE - IONTIS           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.3      0.3      0.3       0.2      0.1      0.0      0.0                0.2
38S     US1|::5   SSs:2235-      5X=  -5            5355 _                           5 5          5       5 5          5 5         5       -=5                             255



Electricite du Laos - Fioanca:l Statements - 1IS2-1lS4                                                               11-Nay-U
Intcn Statement                                                     Pap 3
fI. thousas d)                                                        4f 20
Finastial Year Eaded Dec. 31          1982     1953     1914     195      1916     197      tS        1919     mo       1991     1992     193       194
-s---- ----- --------------                                         ---Projtis----               
Total Seneration  (lhikh              910      863       99I      907      916      go       920       921      924     1025     1062     1104      1112
E.L Generation (ilKi.)                 to10     9        8t       907      865      U,5      tes       905      95      l0      1057      1073     1073
Bross l.orted Pur  (KklUl               0        0         0        0       21       16        15       16       19       20       25       31        39
Losses (1)                              62       6%       6U        72 9n             71        62      7n        72       6        6%      6U         n
Pwr Sold  (lVIhW)                     959      St1       so       847      91l      324       96       964      36       963     1017      1037     103t
Awr      l Reve""   (US$1)          0.029    0.031    0.033    0.051    0.040    0.033    0.034    0.036    0.037    0.037    0.039    0.041    0.044
S3X:S:#SS  F:lZ-#=SS=al   ga                                                                                                                Assgn SS~SM
Intowe from Eletricit  Sales        24217    25214    27811    42934    32563    27115    29715    30701    31721    35541    391        42t0      45479
Other lnace - Excl. a Sale            220      1591     1423     194      2173     2434     26        3053     3419     392S    4299      4903    5380
PTIINII;IWE                         24457    26    2924    4474    34736   2M548    3240    3753    35140    3937               4        412    50659
OPTINI   ERPEISEE
Salaries ad Alloanes                                                      2616     3371     385       4371     4669     490      5407     5n7       6035
Slt Prtbhasts                                                              931      547      543       574      678      723      932      1206     156
Other Cash Operating fEpenses        2966     6006      5640    13554     6031    t653      7159    7T         7449     5226     890     9324     9651
epreciation                          337?    3403       30       4226     4166     4241      4522              S4       5660     62                 752
Total  lperating fEpenss             6343      9409     9046    17790        2    14812    16062    17303    19244    1         21540   229        2419
OPERATI!U SURPus                    13114    1737    20209    27094    20         14?3?    15        16451    16B96    1SU2    22127    239        20
urn22sX8:a.2m                      w     _       s         X                                                                                                                           meat C _         
Total Interst Payets                  269      523       572       49     1721     2014     27        3944     51284     MI21    6991     7151      6930
Items) Interest Capitalized                                               1713     1921      944      1941     294      3458     4060      902     7i9
IUTEEST  Mi     TO WERATIOK           269      523       571      949       69       U      I90B     2002      2235     2788     2927     624      6141
Najer hars Provisimo                    0         0        0        0     1916     1951     2806      2279     2506     2604     25       36        3474
INlINE BEFUE TI & DIVIES            17046    174    19637    2614        1899     12700    12371    1214      12155    14420    16305    1466      16450
Gveameut Tu                                                               34       4212     5017    S541       5746     6238     6841     9061      1602
IEt IClE aO TAX                      17846    16874    19637   26146    15064      H4U      7         6748     640      8192    9U        607       74
xs    :3                s=a
Dividead Payable to S6wer t         17846    16674    19637    24826    13104      6390     S5        4248     3759     5342     67       3202      4162
NET INCII                               0         0        0     1320     1960     2097     2318      250      2650     2940     312      3406      U68
Adj. to Depr. for Prev. Years       12?34                        2254
Extrawdinary Espnse                                                       2477
ICIINE        ADM ERUTS1           -22734        0         0     -934     -517     2097     2311     2500      2650     2840     3121     3406     36B7
TrAsfer froe Got. Eqaity            12734         0        0     2254     2477        0   *   0          0        0        0        0        0         0
TR    . T CIIM. 1W. IIES                0         O        0     1320     1960     2097     2316      2500     2650     2940     3128      340      3697
xt ac:s:ca  : : :::a=:#X:51_s_  __



BetriCitt dB LAOS - Fitaiud  StatmOts - 1962-194                                                                         lfB -?
nIa of Finds Statemt                                                     Pa, 4
(US1  Thouand)                                                          of 20
FMnail  tea Endd  ec. It               1982     1963      1984     I9       t16       1W        191      1         19       19        112      13          9
-       -     ktua-- -                                               --rjetio -
at  wneem    ige Ilnteret             18114    179      2020      279       20       147       15       165       189      19912    22127    23963    260
Ow. and Dbl. Etrarwd. Ehp.            16111     3403      3406     640       416      4241      422      49         48      50        6294     66        752
OETING CMSH FlOl                      34226    206       M1       374    25150    1978    2081    2144            22344    25472    21421    50649    3617
Lss) lli   Cital tr.                  2940      169    -41         93       -7       -140     -412    -2616         *       5105      4719     1681    1too
(less5       kpa irs9rs¶nsiam            0         0        0         0      1916     1951     20        229      2506      2604     29        306       3474
hes  TnsPaal                                                                393       4212     5017      5401     574       6238     634       6061     0602
s   DiimIt            l              17046    174    19637    24626    13104          6        5035      4246         9      342     6337      320       4162
fls)MjrImar   xed                                                             1500   10          150      ISO       15       150       1SO      150       150
CAS  AVAIL. fIE DEBt SERVICE          134       2137      1349     2766      6765     7660    1300       1967      9195     60        74Z0   149    161l2
OUlt SEIPUtC
Itwrest Cbage  to Owations             269       52       571        49        6        36      190      2002      2235     273       292n     62        6141
Principal bpaymts                                                            6763      963      1173      118      1242      196      2639      621      ns
Total Debt Servite                      269      S23       571      94       61       1051      3001     3192      3477     4753      55       12465    1335
CASN ANIL. FEtID   ETIWIS             13171     1614      7977     1817        6      66        9930     6775      571       1290     1915      2024     2906
CAPITAL INES1T53
Proposd Project                                                                 0      649    12030    10655       4        2706      2125         0        0
Oter Proiects                         3370      249    10737       5146      9570    1138    1406    22771    26019    1614             05     3181      2634
Capitalized Intrest                                                          1713     1929       64      1"1       2949     345       4060       02       73l
bAsl Capital lvest t          2      3703      249    10737       5146    11M       13963    26830      57    332         22518    11841      400       3422
LM    tDK  FIIE              f        lst7531    94       2760     33       11349              169I50    26792    21520    21038      9926     20S        616
5111CES Of FIP331
Cwt. Contributis to Euitt            55l         -31    -2691    -9389       42       2605      -358     382       7760     369      -1661    -324      4078
bovt. tonfr. for Ad         ts        12           0         0     2254      2477         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
II  Fit. Los. - Oer Pjets                        187       005     645        550     2022       228        0         0        0         0         0        0
IDA Finaed La. -   .   Prj.                                                     0        0    10340      9230      3022     1793      1411         0        0
couveaat Projec  Loas39                                                                  0      1500     2400      530      490       2600     2000         0
Loas fro  Offici   Leoders             S0                 S3        1909     1100      111      1328      3599     4164     5536      2501      1518     104
6svunot lrkg. Caita lons               497       19       -197     116        231      503      29T      529       6607     571       5         219      4146
TOTAL FtlS71E                        73243       38       7471     3426    1047       6247    '15    26940    2763    21611    10501           248       t122
CASH IKE. (MEM) FOE YES                2711     -4        4711       97      -32    -1090       -96        1        153      57        576       40        55
OPENING MAKMEE                          30      3031      ZSU      729       739      6513      52       4457      465       475         1     57        6316
CLOSING 1iE                            3031     2586      7M       73"94  U613        5423      4457     40        4753      533      5907      6316     6822



iectficite du Laos - Financial Statements - 1982-1994                                                                19-Bay-87
Balance Sheet                                                     Page 5
(ss Thousand)                                                         of 20
As At Dec. 31                1992      1983     1994     1985     1996     19"7o 98           1989       9      199l      1992      t3 
-ctull - -----  ------------8ro jKti OnS-------
ASSETS
FlIED ASSETS
6ross Fixed  ssets                  89560    89729    99820   104077   104227   107817   124075   142504   148056   17593   211925   232421   271016
(Lesslktaumlatd  Depreciation       175I4    20957    2463    30943    35009    39250    43772    49770    54218    59978    66172    72037    80389
Net Fixed Assets                     72006    68771    65457    73234    69218    68568    80303    93734    V3838   115515   145753   159593   190627
Mork in Progress                     2606      486    15531      6420    17703    28227    39000    56289    84123    79254    54712    38450       3427
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                  74611    757    80999    79654    86921    96795   119303   150022   177962   14769   200466   198033   194054
MURREINT ASSETS
Casb                                 3031      2586     7297     7394     6513     5423      4457     4605     4758     5331      5907     6316     6822
Inventories                          2183      1011     236      4537     4541     4905      5183     5235     5287     6077      61       6950     7194
Accounts Receivable                  5811      6557     9591    20189    14327    12355    12662    12284    11810    13248    15068    1646    186b
UnadJusted Advances                 14900      1903     1891     3029     1780      1233     1097     1006      942      1234     1427      988     1205
Rcoeables from Governmnt                0         0     1671     2477        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
TOTAL CUM   T ASSETS                25926    12057    22837    37626    27160    23916    23399    23130    22797    25890    29017    30411    33889
TOTAL ASSETS                        100537    85714   103926   117280   114081   120711   142702   173152   200759   220659   229482   228774   227943
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
:2z==_--- _=  --2       _ = -
EOUITY
6overneent I"estment                75006    73420    69029    60934    66374    67179    64990    68623    74028    75268    70862    669         57296
Iajor Rpairs Reserve                   420     1974     3674     5634     7401      9201    11132    13281    15637    18091    20836    23752    27076
Capital Investment Reserve                                       1320     3281      5378     7696    10196    12946    15686    18814   22219    25906
Revaluation Reserve                                                 0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
TOTAL NET NORTH                     75426    75394    72703    67889    77056    81759    83718    92101   102510   109045   t10512   11066    110278
IDA Fin. Lns. - Other ProjeKts                  187     5192    11677    12227     3284    12547    11581    10616      9651      8686    M7        6756
IDA Finanted La. - Prop. Proj.                                               0        0    10340    19569    22591    24389    25800    24080    22360
Governmant Project Loans                                                  1390      1380     2880     5290    10590    1533    17842    19100    19428
Loans from Oflicial Lenders                      SO     5405     7314     8414      9530    10651    14043    18819    23716    25586    25546    25057
6overn ent Wrkg. Capital Loans       5611      5794     5597     6763      231      734      3681     9494    16033    21500    26201    26569    2799
(less) Current Maturities                                                 -965    -1173    -1189    -1242    -1965    -2638    -6216    -7215    -5640
TOTAL DORROUIUSS                     5611      6031    16194    2575     21287    23756    3B910    59726    76674    91953    9789    96401    9600t
CURREWT LIABILITIES
Current flturities of L. T. D.                                             965      1173     1189     1242       65      2636     62u6     7215     560O
kccounts Payahle                                                 2323     3312      4140     8756    11257    10162      6426     2102     1301     1130
Othe Curent Liailities               19500     429    M29    21314    11462         9       10129      82      9448    105"      12054    131      1955
TOTAL CURRENT LIAILITIES             19500     42B9    1492     23637    15738    15197    20024    22325    21575    19662    21072    21M        2165
TOTAL LIAOS. AND NET  IRTH          1O0537    85714   103826   117280   1M40E   120711   142702   173152   200759   220659   22942   228774   22794
-     G     e=a*2:a:u 2::22       =::= 3 2=t zs-                             =                _    _      A=



Electricite du Lus - Financial Statftents - I12-199                                                          I-l4r87
Derivation of Averine Tariff                                          Pae 6
lUS$ Thousanl                                                     ef 20
Financial Year Ended Dec. 31                                          t916       7 9   1l    1969    1O          l9t    t1W2      199      169.
~~~~Projections -                        ------~~ ~
SALES To THIAILANA
Ida. Mgua:
Poser Sold (611l                                                      656      632      667     644      620      592     562      52B      488
Average Price (US$I&UI03
3an.- Sept. Prire                                                 0.044   0.030   0.030   0.031   0.031   0.032   0.032   0.034   0.04
Oct.- Des. Price                                                  0.030   0.030   0.031   0.031   0.032   0.032   0.034   0.0S    C.Y1
Average Prite for Year                                              0.040   0.030   0.030   0.031    0.031    0.032   0.032   0.034   0.034
Sales from lUa  Of"                                                 26462   19560   20174   20010   t9340   18764   18063   17716    1644
leset and Selabu:
Power Sold iGUh\                                                        0        0        0               0       92     138      147      137
Average Price (US/Iklhl)
Jao.- Sept. Price                                                                                   0.029    0.029    0.029    0.031   0.031
Ott.- Dec. Price                                                                            0.029   0.029       N    0.O      0.031    0.033
Averge Price for Year                                               0.000   0.000   0.000   0.007   0.02    0.02S   0.030   0.03t   0.0m2
Sales from eset and Selabas                                             0        0        0       0        0    270B    4112    4543    4320
on
PeoEU SALES To t ILAN&                                               2642    1900   20174   20010    140   21472   22115  M23             296 
SALES  ITHIN LA PAR
SAveranmt Related tonsuetion                                           132     146      163      182     204      231     263      302      346
Average Price IKip/bklb)                                              5.0      5.0      5.2     5.2      5.3      5.3     5.6      5.6      6.0
Average Price (USIttIbI                                             0.053   0.053    0.054   0.054   0.056   0.056   .05         o.05     0.0
SALES To 6ovuEIIT C UiERS                                            6950    7697    8894    9997   11330   12318   154t   t7u    2t832
Private Sector Can,aton                                                23       25       2?       30      34       so       43      SO 
Average Price ltipltI)                                               7.0      7.0      7.2     7.2      7.4      7.4     7.8      7.8      B.4
Averge Price 1t IkUh)                                                0.074   0.074   0.076   0.076   0.078   0.07    0.082   0.02   0.08B
SES TO PRIVATE SEMTOR                                                 1703    187!    2056    22B0    2607    2952    3578    417    50on
Aipionatic ComAity Cons.                                                t           O        B             9        9       tO      10       11
verwage Price (US/kS)l                                               0.00    0.060   0.062   0.062   0.063   0.063   0.064   0.067    0.0o2
SAES T O PtlIaTic COIUIITy                                             438     460      500     525      562      590     656      6?       775
TOTAL S       3ltilt liO PLAD                                         9091   10032   11450   12701   1499    1661   19725   22572   276?q
TOTAL SALES F EMETY                                                  35553   2892   31624   32?11t   3          37332   4900   442   48643
AlS3_;_ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _---                                  - -    -- - -
TOTAL E tY SOLO                                                       si1      824      us      34       86       963    tlot     1037    1o0
GM 5B   IEOE N 1                                                       86  - 81           20     921     924    1025    1082    1104    1112
NaE  REVEUE IUsliibi                                                 0.040   0.033   0.034   0.036   0.037   0.         0.039   0.041   0.044
#m~2mgaazim                                                      ma  _z _m.              a     m aa~                aa        m     m



ElKtricite du Laos - Financial Stateunts - 1982-194                                                                 IHb-8
haual lovestsent Progras                                               Paqe 72
(US$ Thousand)                                                      of
Total  Etnend. tot. Exp.
Fiancial Year Ended Dec. 31                Project           19ore   l96-  198U    1987     18       199      19%O    19I       IM       193      I199
Cost  1986       9-4 --------                    ---njections------------
#5:  m         S=z nmS z--
Foreign Escalation Rate                                                 0.000    0.030    0.010    0.010    0.010    0.035    0.035    0.035    0.035
Foreign Escalation Factor                                               0.000    0.015    0.035    0.046    0.056    0.080    0.118    0.157    0.197
Local Escalation Rate                                                   0.000    0.030    0.010    0.010    0.010    0.035    0.035    0.035    0.035
Lcal Escalation Factor                                                  0.000    0.015    0.03S    0.046    0.0%      0.080    0.118    0.157    0.197
PROPMES MJECT
Foreipn Cost Comnent:
Savamnatket Rural Electrif.                2686              2686                        1343     1074      269
iar&vPane $ ar a EIK ri .                  NSI2t             1423                         7l       m        142
leset - 115kV Line I Subs.                 6046              6046                        3023     2411      605
Silabam                                    3312              3312                                  153      591     1401     1167
Future Project Devsl. Study                1698              1698                         750     80        35       33
Institutional levelpaopat                  1560              1560                        503      730       327
Eogineeriag and Supervision                 752               752               530        60       60       60       42
Foreip Base Cost                          23151             23151        0      530      9228     9154     2596     1476     1167        0        0
PhYSiCal COat}lguacy                       1763              1163        0       32       615      592      204      145      117        0        0
Price Contioqency                          1191               1191        0        8      348      3        157      129      IS1        0        0
__   _     _    __       _____                       _    __      _     ______________            -----__--------
total fioreign Cast                          26106             26106        0       570    10251     q U44    2956     1750     1435        0        0                               0o
LoKal Ca.t Coppmpot:
Savannatht Rural El etrif.                 1040              1040                         194      200      270      219      167
Champask Rural Electrif.                   2329              2329                         927      612      291      23       263
Saravu  Rural ElKctrif.                     4                 49                            9       8       214      107
Iset - llSkV Une ISus.                      847               947                         254      424      169
Selabas                                     429               429                                   43      11       193       77
Future Projet Dwel. Study                   350               350                         tOO      100       50       50       SO
lostitutioml Bvelhopt                       100               100                          35       35       30
Egiineriog ad Supervisioo                   in                188                 73       23       23       23       23       23
LoKal OMCust                               5792              S           0        73     1612     1526     1163      928      50         0        0
ltysinil  otioeoq                           39a               39         0        4       107      110       et       S7       w         O        O
Price Cmtim *                               349               349        0         l       60       J4       70       it       71        a        O
Total Lal Cost                                6529              6S29        0        79     1779     1711     1314      9        691        0        0
TOTAL"Wm        RBIECTCOSElT                C 3 5 1            3265         0      69    12030    10t5        427O     2706     2125        0        0
B_ _l ~~U38



Electricite du Laos - Financial Stateuents - 1182-19?4                                                                  18-Iay-87
OTHER PRIECLIS
Hydroetertric Generation
Noe-export Projects                          90O^               9000               1000      2600     3100      2300
teset Project                               27200      1000   2620C                           400     5600     8400    9800        2500      500
Other Projects                                  0
total Hydro ase Cost                           36200      1000    35200         0     1000      3000     V7OO    10700    9800        T-00      500         O
transuissiam PrO jEctS
NhR-export Proiectk                         14700              14700                          600     4600      7100     2300       lCO
Other t0Project                                 0                  0
Other ProJects                                  0
Total Trasuission Bse Cost                     14700         0    14700         0        0       600     4600      7100     2300       100         0        0
Nistellansmus Projects
NAa Niue 11                                16150    14150      2000       500     1300       200
Substation Reb4ilitation                     7500               7500      6500     1000
Yintiame t                                   6300      6000      300       200      100
Vientimae R.E. It & III                      9000               9000      140      1000      1OOO     1000      1OO0     1000      t040     1000      1000
he DonglSelabas Rebab.                       3600               3600       500     3100
Vientainu UMan                               7800               7800         0      800      1.00     t000      1000     1000      1000     1000      1000
8iltings                                     8800               800                1700      4000     2700       400
Thakhek-Pbountiou                            72O0               7200                200      2500     1800      2200      500
Risc. Projects kWe Cost                        66350    20150    46200       8700     9200      8700     6500      4600      2500     2000      2000     2000
Otber Projets  ae  Cost                       117250              96100      8100    10200    12500    19000   22400    13600         4600      2500     2000
Pbsical Cotingecy                               9610               9610       870     1020      1230      1980     2240      1360      460       250      200
Price Cutiecy                                   5667               5667         0       t16      476      9"1      1379      19        595       431      434
TOW.L COST-GME  PROECTS                       132527    21150   111377       9570    11388    14006    22771    26019    16154        565S      3181     2634
a2rnu_aacm                                  = e_ = =:e:za
IWEML IWESTENT PROM                           165161    21150   144011       9570    12037    26036    3326    302          1859      7         3101     2634
U U23:S25 Z=- = #                                       B    3 = u::#                      C5l- - -



Electricite du Laos - Finaocial Statesents - 1982-1994                                                                 l8-Nay-87
Fixed Asset Formation                                                  Page 9
(US$ Thousand)                                                         o4 20
Financial Year Ended Dec. 31          1982     1983      1984     1985     1986      1987     1988     1989     1990      1991     192      193       19I4
Actual - ----A-  -  - Proictuals------ - --=----===M-=
HISTORICAL VALUE
BROSS FIXED ASSETS
Opening Balance                               89560    89729    89820   104077   104227   107811   124075   142504   14805,6   175393   211925   232421
4dditiofs:
Capitalizations                              16q       91    14257         0     3440    16108    18279      5403    27187    36382    20345    38445
%ajor Repairs Expenditure                      0         0        0      150       150      150      150      150       150      150      ISO       150
Historical Gross Fixed Assets                 89729    89820   104071   104227   107817   124075   142504   146056   175393   211925   232421   271016
ACCUIULATED DEPR£CIAtION
Opening Balance                               17554    20957    24363    30843    35009    39250    43772    48770    54219    59878    66172    72837
Annual Depretiation                            3403     3 46      4226     4166     4241      4522     4998     5448      5660     6294     6665      7552
Adi. to Depr. for Prey. Years                     0         0     2254
Closing Balance - Historical                  20957    24363    30843    35009    39250    43772    48770    54218    59878    66172    72837    80389
_5__#=_YSYY8Y=SSSYYSSS=                    =S= Z===Y                              == ===      .==YY-                YY#-=---
NET FIXED ASSETS - HISTORICAL                 6P771    65457    73234    MM218    685b8    80303    93134    93838   115515   145753   1583   190627
REVALUATION
M-=#====8
Revaluation Factor                                                        1.000    1.030    1.010    1.010    1.010    1.035    1.035    1.035    1.035
Gross Fixed ssets:
3pening Balance                                                 179640   193897   199869   205545   224102   245049   259400   297265   346140   379836
Additions                                                     14257        0     3492    16180    18370      5430    27663    37019    20701    39118
Najor Repairs Expenditure                                         0      150       150      150      1SO      150       150      150      150       150
Revalued Grcss fixed ssets                                      193897   194047   203510   221884   242622   250628   287213   334434   3669l1  419103
Accusulated Depreciation:
Opening Balance                                                  48726    54344    6396      72754    81900    91%57   104381   117935   132687   148402                               co
Annual Depreciation                                               7872     77S9     8068      8335     8751     9294      96      10265    10697    119B4
Adj. to fepr. for Prev. Years                                     2254
Revil. kccumlated Oepr.                                          54344    62103    72033    81089    90651   100851   113941   129200   1438    160306
%--M:5:=8YS   C:--t::==                     Y-=:S== Y::-Y =   =8 -                               8
MET FIED ASSETS - REVALUED           .                          139553   131944   131477   I49    151M    149777   173266   206235   223607   251717
OS FIZEb ASSETS                                                 104077   104227   107817   124075   142504   148056   175M3   211925   232421   271O01
ACCULTED  EIIIATIM                                               30843    359    39250    43172    497         54218    59W1      661M     78        0
NET FlED AMS         1 ERTIN                                    73234    69218    68M       80303    9374    93        115515   1457     18    1967
REVAUIATION RESERVE                                                  0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0
AWNUAl. DEPRECIATION                                              4226     4166      4241     4522     49"      548       50         9      66         52
#:::==:2 II: PXRORESS
Opeing Balane                                                              4420    !7703    2B227    3O        M2        84123    7925     54712    3o
Aditions:
COStructio                                                              9510    12037    2036      32       3029    19859       7M       3181      243
Interest Capitalized                                                    1713     1929       844     19l      2949      349      4060      902       7
(less) Capitalizations                                                     0     34       16109    18279     5403    276       3432      45    384
Yearly InKrease                                                           17283    10525    10O77     17289    27335    -4869   -24542   -16262   -35023
N--K TN PW SS                                                             17703    282       30       M8       84123    79254    54712    385         3427
z S~ 2~                                   n      S3XCUSa                                                 U        3      Z



Electricite du Laos - Financial Statesents - 1982-19"4                                                               19-fy-8B
Firncti  of lonvestmet                                                 Pap 10
Kh" lltion)                                                          of 20
Fiancie  Toa Ended Dec. 31                                                19B6     1907      19       19       19"0     1l    192         193      1
_iz ojetions--
TOTAL CST10TIE CUST                                                      9570    12037    2606    3362       30289    161i      7780     3161     2634
INTEREST WITALIZED                                                        1713     1928  8U4         1941      294      34       40        902     m78
TOTAL INESTNT                                                            11293    139R     261       3567    332       2238118 I16    40B3         3422
hWKES OF FlUME
Interal Cadh kmratim                                                       -66     6623     9930     6775      5718     1280     1915    2024      2801
lbt Cash Ntmations                                                        -082   -1090      -96        14o      153      573      57       409      us5
CASK AVIL. FRHOINOERITIIIS                                                 815    7710    10695       82        W        707     19 1_15           2
ALMICE TO Kf FIUICED                                                     10467     6247    15905    2140    2673    21611    141          2463      1122
IA Finacd LA. - Pr. Proj.                                                    0        0    10340     9230      3022     1793     141         0        0
IA Fin. La  - Othr ProJects                                               550     2022      223        0         0        0        0        0        0
Siwut Prject Loa                                                          130         0     1500      2400    5S00      4900    260       2000 
Loas fro  Off cial Ledwers                                                1100     17il     1328     359       4984              2506     1513     10 
6nero ut Irkg. Capital Los                                                 231      503     2947      92       60       5791" 543         219      4146
TOTsL LOf                                                                 321      34       163    2l10       1913    17916    12162      5717    500
6ott. Cuotributim  To Equit                                               42       205      -5         8       760      364    -UAll   -39    -407
6nt. Trasfr. for Adjo=ts                                                  2477        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0
NET  OUITY INEA                                                           720      2605    -35        S        760      369     -1661    -324     -4073
TOTAL FINAICE                                                            10467     6247    15995    2690    2773    21611    1001         2168     1122
-mm



Electracite du Laos - Financial Statewts - 1902-194                                                                         1aWy
9Urroin  S_y PIap  it
1US fillien)                                                             Of 20
Fimoacial Year Ende  Inc. 31                                                  5956      116       119       1139     1190      111      1192      19        1994
Piotmd                                    Ogteg k-  31 _ _%___<roXti
IWIIE   tS F1U  E   tLA
inm                                                                                        0              10340  t196   221   249   no    20
tdditims                                                  am                     0         0    t13        923       302        7        m1l         S 
lStwest E uee                                                                    0         0         0        0         0         O        0      195       tUE
Capitatied latefst                                                               0         *       41i    u1%        us         Mt      mm           o         O
Aeliratiin                                                                       0         0         0        0         0         0         0     112r      1 t
Clouag  kt                                                                        6        0    1030      159    22591    24359            0     2         2230
MAL "A1 CM. - no5 POlL
tIpemiq Sat es.                                                             11417    12227    1329       12547    11551    1010        901       91        1M
00t m                                                                          5502s      2        225        0         0         0         0   0              0
toternst      ee0                                                                                   9      139       15        1116     16ug       92        3
InIvt Caiaized                                                                1336      2400         0        0         0         0         0        0         0
Aurtiz   0                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~0 905  965       96        95       915       95         65      9t5
el  am                                                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~2221    1324    1251  115  10616    961       301       711        11
Baum                                                                    420       20 42 60 4200           4     2K      420       4116      4052      No45
Mditteat                                 0                  ~    ~ ~~          ~~        ~~        ~~       ~~        ~~~0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0
WiendlEze                                                                63        63        03       03        03        03        i   61    0        59
Closing Salasce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pa34 a
Mar tti" aa     ti2d                                                                    tit? s s   as a
Catere   fst                                                                                                                                                                                       IS;1S tW   *3t
bist  ottizad                                                                   44       133       223      305       i1
lArtiugtinW                                                                                                                               36         7    3
Clatill Mom ---- ----------                                I1t"     2211V      5        421      520       4M5       457       4165     351
AIA  151. 91 - -59      I1I
D*eniam balamc                                                                             0                  0         0         0      its      la11      lo5
Oditin                                                     4743                                                                1143L     am        2        144
l twnt Es_uno1
Iti qn £l^1t                                                                                                                         PA 106    ^    SV
krti: tin
eng   alattce                                                                    0         0         0        0         0      115S       1?      39        474
MAN MV. -   - 15357
oening hima"c                                                                              0      1000     1109    3SW         793    £227       u105      IZ
Natio 1n300                                                                                0       19      219       4         43         21 2M 6S
ltwtit ho"°l
Interest iE212e201smeS                                                                                                                             127      1199
Iterest Citttiztd                                                                          0       106      24        569       91      1n
kertiatien                                                                                                                                         910       904
Clouin  Balace                                                                   0         0      1139     356       193    1227        I        us        £176
Wm FWD - to W
he q Balnce                                                                   3114      3114      3114     296       261       2491     2         2076  I 3
411m it         t                                             0
Interest E ns                                                                                     246       224       200      5in       104       IS        14
ntearet Cpitalized                                                            213        112
hert%2atiO                                                                                         28       2         20        2                  206       206
Clouing Batanc                                                                3114      3114      2906     249       2491      223      206       150       1061
LOWS MMN OFFPU 1d.DEl
*-Useg Balnco                                                                 7314      8314    1053      15051    1103       19519    24716    2651       2656
Naltious                                                  22743               1500      1157      1325     3599      4954     553       26        1515    1to6
Intweret Expens                                                                 63        63       306      25        271       651      610      130       1713
Interest Capitalized                                                           29        332       329      59        943      1022     1390       24        337
Omortuatln                                                                       0         0      203       266       206       633      633                ISO156
Ctlsin  Blan                                                                  3414      M530    116S1    150        1"51      24116    20        26          7
sarnaum      muaaan.-                                                      83         *       s     a m           i     i    in          z     .     a



Electricite du Laos - Financial Statesents - 1982-1994                                                                    18-Iay-87
GOVERNHEWT PRIL.CT LDANS
Opening Balante                                                                  0     1380      1380     2880      5280    10580    15334    17842    19700
Additions                                                199Bf                1380        0      1500     2400      5300      460      2600      2000         0
Interest Expense                                                                0         0         0        0        66       64       132       240      461
Interest Capitalized                                                           33        66       102      196       314      557       662      658       451
mortization                                                                      0        0         0        0         0        46       92       142      272
Closing Balance                                                               1380     1380      2880     5280    10580    15334    17842    19700    19428
GOVERWENT VRK6. CAPITAL LNS.
Opening Balance                                                              6763       231       734     3661      9494    16033    21500    26201    26569
Additions                                                33889                 231      503      2947     5829      6607     5783      5643      2199     4146
Interest Espense                                                                6        23       106      316       611      693      1122      1223     1244
Interest Capitalized                                                            0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
Ahortization                                                                 6763         0         0       16        69       315      942      1831     2716
Closing Balance                                                                231      734      3681     9494    16033    21500'   26201    26569    279m
TOTAL LOAWS
Opening Balante                                                             25754    22252    25929    41099    60967    79639    95590   105115   104615
Additions                                               105211               3261      3641    16343    21058    19913    17916    12162         5717     5200
Interest Expense                                                               6?        86      190B     2042      2235     2788      27        6249     6141
Iaterest Capitalized                                                         1713      1928       844     1941      2949     3458      4060       902      788
bortization                                                                  6763       965      1173     1l89      1242      1965     2630      6216     7215
Closing Balance                                                             22252    24929    41099    60967    79639    95590    05115   10461S   102601
CAPITALIZED INTEREST
Opening Balance                                                                  0     1713      3219     2085      3591     6132      7058      647t     4782
Additions                                                                     I173     t928       844     1941      2M4       3458     4060       902      788
Capitalizations                                                                  0      421      1206     1208       408     2532      4649      2591     5213
Closing Balance                                                               1713     3219      2857     3591      6132      7058     6471      4782      358
=33::SS=C3=-5353-tS        =S--2-AC=-5C==::Y=- __-533=--55=X:==-=---=3                                                                     qo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.
I



Electricite du Laos - Financial Statements - 1992-1994                                                                     18-May-87
IDA Credit Parameters                                                    Page 12
(USS Thousand)                                                           of 20
Financial Year Ended Dec. 31                             USS                  1986     1987      1998      l989     1990      1991     1992      1993      1994
Aggr.                                             -- Proiectioiis-        --
Proposed Project                                         32635                   0      69    12030    10855        4270     2706      2125         0        0
Project Cost - Foreign Coep.                             26106                   0      570    10251      9144      2956      1750     1435         0         0
Project Cost - Local Component                            6529                   0       79      1779     1711      1314      956       691         0         0
IDA Financed Expenditures                                25800                                  10340     9230      3022      1791     1411         0
PROPOSED LOAN                                                     Rate
Opening Balance                                                  0-----                   O         0    10340    19569    22591    24389    25800    24090
Capitalized Interest                                      7183      8.00I                 0       414     1196      1686      1679     2008
Interest Expense                                                                          0m 0               0         0        0                1728     1720
Amortization                                                                              0         0         0        0         0        0      1720      1720
Closing Balance                                                                           0    10340    19569    22591    24389    25900    24080    22360
IDA FtNANCED LONA  - NAN NUM
Opening Balance                                                             11677    12227    13284    12547    11581    10616         9651      8686     7721
Additions                                                                      550     2022       228        0         0         0        0         0         0
Interest Expense                                                                                 1498     1399      1287     1176      1064       952      840
Interest Capitalized                                                          1386     1480
Abortization                                                                            965       965      965       965      965       965       965      965
Closing Balance                                                              12227    13284    12547    11581    10616        9651     8686    M71        6756
IDA FIN. LOAN - OTHER PRWOECT
Opening Balance                                                                                              0         0         0        0         0        0
Additions                                                                                                     0        0         0        0         0      0
Interest Expense                                                                                                                                    0        0
Interest Capitalized                                                                                         0         0         0        0
Ramrtization                                                                                                                                                  °
Closing Balance                                                                                               0        0         0        0         0         0
TOTAL IDA CRS. - OTfER PRJS.
Opening Balace                                                               11677    12227    13284    12i47    11581    10616        9651    tU6        M7
Additions                                                                      550     2022       228         0        0         0        0         0         0
Interest Expense                                                                 0        0      14"      139       1287     1176      1064       92       840
Interest Caitalized                                                           1386     1480         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
Amortization                                                                     0      96S       965      965       965       965      965       965      965
Closing Balance                                                              12227    13284    12547    11581    10616        9651     8686      Ml       6756
TOTAL INTEREST EIPENSE                                                           0        0      149       1399     1287      1176     1064      2947     2697
TOTAL CAPITAL12ED INTEREST                                                    1386     1480       414      1196     1686      1979     2008         0         0
TOTAL AIWRTIZATION                                                               0      965       965       965      965       965      965      2685     2608



ESCetricita de Lass - Fiaaecial Statmsots - 1982-194                                                                W-arIp?
Sowraat Fisce                                                        PMp 13
W    Tasuds)                                                         of 20
fiasil  yew 1.4 Dec. 31                                                   193      1t7      13  1 9            1990     199      19       19       1
ininzainzumun*zaa ~     ~       *mapU2t*
-  LS~~~~~~ft
heuiag lance                                                                 0     1311     1K        no    S2W        Iwo80    15m     1J66     1m
Aiditim                                                                   13I         0     156      240      5300      43       20       MO
lterets
twU?IIoL                                                                 33       66        6        6       6         44        0        5       5
tlSl IrAw=                                                                         °                n    n    n    n 4                            Z
194  kawo f7                                                                                                  2       72        7         6       6
1938 kawas 2k 
1939 kade.                                                                                                            111       1
I"I
1994 bairn                                                                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  4    ,2 24    1
I9*e@ p         aptt*Ea33   (A   102   1%    31    w                                                                          132   21   4@1
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 i2 f                                                    Xn2  92
awqat. £aptallzui loterust                                                                                     314       147      942      la       m
meX_ 63. CwITI L
opaiti" U.1 Idv                                                           us        23   1 3           mu                                20       2Slt X
lAbntti129
Mtrasts
9  kalle                                                                  6       It       11      1         9        7         4        4        2
1917 baGs                                                                         12       24       24       22       11        1        12        9
1933 kraima                                                                                i1      141      141       131      II         1       71
1939    l=a                                                                                        1*to     230     230        217      22       i
19   ra                                                                                                     1N         ?       317      2        2
191kale.                                                                                                           13        1       23       VI3
194  radols.                                                                                                                                   100
rA t. Istoret E us                                                                   23      10       S1        61l      33      1122    123       124
a st: Cepitaltui- ltus t                                                         0        0 0      0        0        0        0
tartixatisal
193  bralr                                                                                          16       3        33 n                        35
1I"7 bralem                                                                                                  31       1   72             12       12,
193  baWM                                                                                                            211       42                421
1939 barlS.                                                                                                                    414      33       313
1990 bramels                                                                                                                            41       944
1"t91 b     tas                                                                            4O3
orept# mkiaaum                                                            6743        0        0       II       69       35       94      1331    271*
C "ing Iblo                                                               231      74S W                     MM"4 tAS  2151    21a      :mI      2w
Opasag tllacs                                                            609      68141    70744    70338    7627     34830    3112      31044 3N2M15m
Ailitims - Proj Catructia                                                 6979     45       301      831    10702       6751     1733      151        0
Adities - lrmaors                                                         2477        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
teuti as                                                                  2250     2290     32       269      2942      3057     39        m       4073
vat clho                                                                  72       2605     -YI      53        7760       94    -1611   -32       -4073
6OVEIINI       TN£1El l141    70744    70303    71270    34O3                                                         37724    30 64      M335    73737
suumsamz,a                                                            aaXJ:mn                           uam uuuaana



EJKtricite is Laos - Financial Statients - 1912-194                                                                134yi7
Sales ad hosatis                                                     Pqe 14
(k5lb B  i3 W)                                                     of 20
111140tiA  1w  Wad SK. 1                                        1t       1        t1?      t1w      13        t9W     144    t19       t13        114
mmkt.-                                     r - - - -b  ms
Viostimse oArm
sovt    atoo                                                  0        IIS 119  13       I        1U       10t      209               262      29
Private Camuasr                                                1?       19       21       24       27       3   34        3    0        42       47
blplutic                                                        7        7        4        a        a        I t              te       10       1U
Total listio   ire  Soles                                        130      155      174      1ll      202      226      252      23l2     35       322
$atbmo Prodiocom
ermost blatd                                                            15       13       14       15       1t       21       29       4        53
Priro Cumrn_                                                             4        4        '        3        4        4         *        I       to
botA loSl.Pr wlo  San                                                      It       17       tt       to       2        20        35       9        U3
_L  Pr. Ode s -  lb         ._                                             I     IU 17  13   13       14       1        17       22       7         U
EL On - UaTEU1nSS                                                           0        4        4        4        4        9    13    20    21
[K GM         SunN'I   SPtE"                                             1t5       13       1to      230      23       201       294      21       73
31371. Us  - a GM
bat  of L1OS                                                             22.1      0.01    IL.0    1701    1l0.0       15.t     U 14.0?    MU     13.01
VlmtmmeliatriLLoasm                                                        34       35       33      Ni         36    S           39       41       46
bot. Po. Diatrib. tog                                                       0        I        I        1         I        1        2        3        4
T" ohot.Lo o - Og- $o.                                                     34       10       33       U        37       39        Os       43       49
mm - WmES M1  LUl M2
mI          1   -.L  E  7 S UtIMLIZ t S 
lae of bus                                                                3La      3.0      La1      3.01     3.0      3.01      Lot1     La       3.3
in". La  a Reign on                                                        it   U9                    n         Is   21   2n    26   N9
w    a _04                                                                du   &V    67   64   62e    M5  M    67   in
bft=i"  t_I                                                                          2        2        2        2        t2                 3        41 1
MU        5                                                                2t       It       Is        u        n        20        5       31       5
"K' isu u7                                                                          v        56       S    M             a        is       a
_             _         _ 5tISS                                            5t  52            M         7       M       I2        M5        47   n 2
IOA   E_   3llLe                                                        01       32       35       354      34       903l    1est      107      103
iL NaMrMn I= do
NuI.                                                                   305       M3      9W       M1       NO       SE       96       NO        M
SlSe til                                                                1111       9I ne?                                                        15B t   il2 s n2
use!"                                                                                                               noS 5              2 1      M
setu U5  Ul zo w e5 B
UL Umnil                                               us~~~~~~~~~54  3so  45      M1       935    1lo5       05      1073     107
ongu                                                                   150 IS   150      ISO      Is0      150       150      10       1n       10
lndt                                                                                                                          32        32       2
selaha                                                                            2        2        2        2        2        2         4        4
_            _ _w  S_                                                         _ y n_             _  _ _  _  _ _  __  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _
EZb WZl IfOr"SE
aL UAILLE C        ltY                                             0      150      152      152      12       152       152 12    4       141     t06
-s---rn_



ElUtricite da Ls - FiaaKial Statueos - 12-1994                                                                     1I-lh1-97
Direct Cast Flom                                                   tap 15
(15  ihos                                                            of 20
f1eanclal Yea Ende OKc. St                                                1994     19B7     1989     139      1990     191       1192     1993     1194
rn         r5-a*mm tn2mna-nimmnnim 
Lcat Ctat E5calatian Fctwr                                               1.000    1.015    1.05    1.044    1.04      LOGO    1.118    I.17    1.197
IENUTtill aW sum (Buh
ulalPa                                                                  945      40       900      900      90       900      900       00       00
lent                                                                      0        0        0        0        0      100       152      152     152
Sula"                                                                     0        5        5        5        5        5        5        21       21
Other 5S11flt                                                             0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0      -0
Gross  maatim1                                                             3s       965      05       905      905      1005     957    1073       10t3
SAIES  Nm  .LUANCESC
EDL naapa    - opm4g  alane                                               tt 9      3S9     1687     19n      1947     1962      1942     2022     2022
AIditius                                                                    19      29       135      125       IS                40
TMTAL  AMIPOER CUUENIT                                                    1398     1B7      1822     M7       192      1962    2022       2022     2022
Avg. Salaries I Illns.                                                   1.885    1.99     1.999    2.118    2.245    2.390   2.S23    2.674    2.034
Salary Inflation                                                         1.000    1.%40   1.00    1.060    1.064    1.060    1.040    1.060    1.060
AVEME SLRYI AL.OMA1ES                                                    1.95    1.993    2.11U    2.245    2.390    2.523    2.674    2.834    3.004
TOTAL SALRIES AD ALU CES                                                  2646     3371     385      4371     UN       49       5407      5731. t45
BULK PUICAES (1k3)                                                          23       14       15       14       19       20        25       31       39
Sale Pr. - Espwrts tUS$IkWh)                                             0.040    0.030    0.030    0.031    0.031    0.032    0.032   0.034    0.034
Ih0eliag Charge (US$1kH)                                                 0.005    0.005 0.0         0.0      0.005    0.005    0.05    e,         0.005
COST OF BUL  PURCHASES                                                     i3       547      543      574      S76      723       932     120e     1516
ADINIISTRAT 19
btasuustration - 194 Prices                                               1359     I7       1673     1907     1931     1946      1944     2006     2004
lcrese In gm  Rate                                                      1.014    21S      1.00  S.0S        L.OOS    1.000    1.031    1.00t    L.00
Adaiuistratioi - Ibas sCt                                                 177     1473     1007     1931     1944     1946      200      200t    20
TIAL AIUISIRAtION                                                         137      169      1571     2019    2055      2102     2242      2320     2401
G:S:C=:2:===       t=SSS                                                         GG=C
OIPE3ArIO ASD 11IWLEIANCE
Operation I Saint. - 1986 Prs.                                            4651    4U55      4832     5107     5107     S107     5472    'iS6S      055
Scope o4 Increuas                                                        1.001    1.049    1.04     1.000    1.000    1.110    1.O62    1.015    1.000
Operation  * Haint. - as  Cost                                            4655     4882     5107     510.     5107     5472  S 965        055 tO55
OPERATION It &AINTEI(CE                                                  4655      4955     S27      5340     5393     4124     64       7004      7249
iwoh REPAIRS ROVISIEm
Historical A       Depreiaun                                              4166     4241     4522    4999      544I     54O      4294      6665     7552
Najer Rpairs Factor                                                         46U      44?      464      44?      4        441       44t      46?      4
IAD REPAIRS PROVISION1                                                    1916    1951      2080     2299     2506     2404     295       M        3474
OTilE CASM  OPER0ATIl EXPESES                                             031      663      7159     7359    7448      9224    30         9324     9651
*2Sug3gg23~3gZsa:St:saa                                              s:s             g        _         _       _                         _



Electricite du Laos - Financial Stateaents - 19B2-19q4                                                                    18-may-87
Dividends and Reserves                                                    Page 16
1USS Tbousand)                                                           of 20
Financial Year Ended Dec. 31                                                  1986     1987      1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994
-- - --------       -- - - ------ - ---Projections- ---------------
DIVIDEND
Capital Investment Allowance                                                  1960     2097      2318     2500      2650      2840     3128      3406     3687
NET INCOME AfWER TAX                                                         15064     8488      7353     6748      6409     8182      9464      6607     7848
(less) Cap. Invest. Provision                                                1960      2097     2318      2500      2650     2840      3128     3406      3687
DIVIDEND                                                                     13104     6390      5035      42U      379       542U    6331       3202     4162
MAJ0R IA1I7ENANCE RESERVE
opening Balance                                                              5634      7401      9201    11132    13281    15637    W8091    20836    23752
Additions                                                                     1916     1951      2080     22"9      2506      2604     2695      306      3474
Expenditures                                                                   150      ISO       150       150      150       150      150       150       15
WOR NAINTEAUNCE RESERVE                                                      7401      9201    11132    13281    15637    18091    20           231S2    27076
CAPITAL INVESTHENT RESERVE
Opening Balance                                                               1320     3281      5378     7696    10196    12846    156U6    18814    22219
NMt Additions                                                                 1960     2097      2318     2500      2650      2840     3128      3        3687
CAPITAL INVESTHENT RESERVE                                                    3281     5379      7696    10196    12846    15686    18814    22219    2590b



Electricite du Laos - Financial Statements - 1982-1994                                                                   18-May-87
Receivables and Piyables                                                  Page 17
(US$ Thousand                                                           of 20
Financial Yewr Ended Dec. 31                                       1985      1906     1987     1998      1989     l990      t991     1 12      193      1"4
(kt.) -                     ----- ---Projetions------
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
Sales to GovernMent ConmUers                                                6950      7697     8894      M7    11330    12818    1549         17767    21832
Payment Cycle (Days)                                                         300       20       240       210      180       180      too       130      190
6ovt. Cousuers Receivables                                                  5712      5694     5M8       5694     57        6321     769        72    10767
Sales to Private Sectw                                                      1703      1875     2056      2280     2607      2952     3573     4117      5072
Payet Cycle (Days)                                                           420       360      300       20       180       10       1to      1t0       1
Private Secto  Receivables                                                  1959      189      1690      1499     1286      1456     1764     2030      2501
Sales to  iplomutic Corps                                                    438       460      500        25      562      590       6U       U9        775
Payent Cycle (Days)                                                           19       t109     109       10       109       109      10        109      1"
Diploutic Corwps Receivables                                                  131      137      149       157      168       176      196      206       231
Saen to Thailand                                                           26462    18960    20174    20010    19340    21472    22175    22259    20964
Paymnt Cycle (Days)                                                           90        90       90        90       90        90       90       9          0
Thailand Receivables                                                        652       4675     4974      4934     4769      524      58       58        51N9
TOTAL ACCOUNTS RECEIVAL                                                    14327    12355    12662    12284    11810    t3248    1508    168           1U
ACCOm   PAYABL,
CONSTIETIIN EVENDTITRE                                                      9570    12037    26036    326    30289    19859          7730     3181      263
Number of Days                                                               120       120      120       120      120       120      120       120      120
CAPITAL PAAMBLES                                                            3146      3957      560    1OM55      9953     6200      2558      1046      am
OTHER CASH OPERATING EXPENSES                                               6031      6653     7158     79        7448     8226      8903     9324      9651
Number of  ays                                                                10        10       10        10       10        10       10        10       10
OPERATIN6 PAVAILES                                                           165       182      196       202      204      225       244      255       264
TOTAL PROJECTED PAYABLES                                                    3312      4140     9756    11257    10162      6426      2802     1301      1130



Annex 16
Pag 18 of 20
Assumptions to Financial Projections
Income Statement
(1.) Total Generation -- is derived in the table entitled "Sales and
Generation" (page 14).
(2) Losses -- are derived In the table entitled 'Sales and
Generation" (page 14).
(3) Energy Sold - is derived In the table entitled "Sales and
Generation" (page 14).
(4) Income from Electricity Sales - is derived in the table
entitled "Derivation of Average Tariff" (page 6).
(5) Other Income Exclusive of Sales - is projected to increase by
122 per year.
(6) Salaries and Allowances - are derived in the table entitled
"Direct Cash Flow" (page 15).
(7)  Cost of Bulk Purchases -- Is derived in the table entitled
"Direct Cash Flow" (page 15).
(8)  Other Cash Operating Expenses -  are derived in the tableb
entitled "Direct Cash Flow" (page 15).
(9) Depreciation - is derived in the table entitled "Fixed Asset
Formation" (page 9).
(10) Total Interest Payments -- are the sum of interest capitalized
and interest charged to operations.
(11) Interest Capitalized - is derived in the schedule entitled
"Borrowings Summary" (page 11).
(12) Interest Charged to Operations - is derived in the schedule
entitled "Borrowings Summary" (page 11).
(13) Government Tax - is set at 25X of Total Operating Expenses plus
Interest charged to Operations.
(14) Dividend - is derived In the schedule entitled "Dividends and
Reserves" (page 16).
(15) Extraordinary Expenses -- in 1986 reflect a write-off of
recoverables due from the provincial authorities of Savannakhet
and Khanmouane.  It will be a condition of the proposed credit
that the tentral government assume responsibility for these
recoverables. An offsetting transfer is uade in the Government
equity account.
(16) Net Working Capital Increases - exclude Cash and Liquidity
Requirements.



Annex 16
- 100 -                      Page 19 of 20
(17) Principal Repayments - are derived in the schedule entitled
"Borrowings Summary" (page 11).
(18) Proposed Project - is derived in the schedule entitled
"Capltalization Values" (page 8).
(19) Other Projects -  are derived in the schedule entitled
"Capltalization Values" (page 8).
(20) Capitalized Interest -- is derived in the schedule entitled
'Borrowings Summary" (page 11).
(21) Government Contribution to Equity - is derived in the schedule
entitled "Government Finance" (page 13).
(22) All IDA Financed Loans (for the Proposed Project and other
Projects) - are derived in the table entitled "Borrowings
Summary' (page 11).
(23) Governrent Project Loans and Government Working Capital Loans --
are derived in the table entitled "Government Finance" (page
13).
(24) Loans from Official Lenders -- are derived in the table entitled
"Borrowings Summary' (page 11).
Balance Sheet
(25) Gross Fixed Assets - are derived in the table entitled "Fixed
Asset Formation' (page 9).
(26) Accumulated Depreciation -- is derived in the table entitled
"Fixed Asset Formation" (page 9).
(27) Revalued Net Fixed Assets -- are derived in the table entitled
"Fixed Asset Formation" (page 9).
(28) Work in Progress -- is derived in the table entitled 'Fixed
Asset Formation" (page 9).
(29) Inventories -- are projected to increase in proportion to
changes in operations and maintenance charges, and increases in
the local escalation rate.
(30) Accounts Receivable - are derived in the table entitled
'Receivables and Payables" (page 17).
(31) Unadjusted Advances - are projected to increase in relation to
Increases in Salaries and Allowances Bulk Purchases, Other Cash
Operating Expenses, and the Dividend Payable to the Government.
(32) The Major Repairs Reserve and Capital Investment - are derived
in the table entitled "Dividends and Reserves" (page 16).



Annex 16
Page 20 of 20
- 101 -
(33) Current Maturities -- are determined in the table entitled
"orrowings Summary" (page 11).
(34) Accounts Payable - are derived In the schedule entitled
wReeelvables and Payables" (page 17).
(35) Other Current Liabilities - are set at 80X of Accounts
Receivable.



AMX 17
-102-                       Page   of 2
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Demand ProJections
Assumptions
1.        Demand development is likely to be based mainly on residential,
coumercial, and small industrial consumption.   In most prospective areas of
the three provinces, residential and small industrial demand for energy
appears to by buoyant.
2.        While replacement of small diesel pumps by electric pumps for
irrigation and water supply is likely, major new pump irrigation schemes in
the South are still far from implementation. The main priorities in the
country's irrigation sector are the completion and rehabilitation of existing
investments and the emphasis on gravity irrigation in new schemes. As major
new lift irrigation projects are likely to oe implemented only in the more
distant future, only existing and firmly planned pumps are taken into account.
3.        Energy consumption in Sav,nnakhet Province, during years of rapid
expansion of the network in the early 1980s, grew at about 302 p.a. Since
1985, when expansion slowed down (apparently for lack of resources),
consumption has been growing only negligibly, stagnating around 11 GUh per
year at a maximm demand of about 3.3 KW. For 1987 and 1988, the pace of new
connections is assumed to be slow, utilizing available materials. With the
onset of project construction in 1988, consumption should grow in 1989 and
reflect the new connections under the project thereafter.
4.        In Champassak and Saravane provinces, installed generating capacity,
which is scattered and isolated, is utilized fully, not allowing any supply
growth without further investment. Potential demand is severely suppressed
and limited to a maximum peak demand of 1.2 MW in Pakse town (from an
installed hydro capacity of 2.0 MW at Selabam), about 100-200 KW in Saravane
town (from two diesel generators used alternatively), and even smaller loads
elsewhere (provided by small public and private diesel capacity). Numbers of
consumers have been stagnant for years, and consumption is subject to cuts at
peak tines. Consumption is about 6 GWh/year in Palse, about 0.1-0.2 GVh/year
in Sarairane, and negligible in other locations. Outside Pakse, electricity is
providedi only for 2-3 hours in the evening. No improvement (with the
exception of installing some small local diesel generators) is expected until
project construction begins. New connections should materialize quickly as
the replacement demand is high.
5.        Potential energy demand in the Southern Provinces is high.  The
three provinces account for about 391 of the country's rice production (mainly
in Savannakhet and Champassak) at above-overage productivity. Because of the
deterioration of the road transport network, however, trade in agricultural
surpluses is difficult. This is reflected in the low local price of rice
(Kg 9/kg in Pakse vs. KN 22/kg in Vientiane). In spite of the inter-province



ANNEX 17
-103 -                         Page 2 of 2
trading restrictions, processing of agriculture and forestry products such as
rice, coffee, tea, ard wood is active, and growth is constrained mainly by the
lack of spare parts and fuel supply. The average household in rural areas has
an income of about RH 4,OOO/month (perhaps more if informal income-earning
activities are included) and spqnds up to a quarter of this stated income on
fuel for cooking and lighting.1t  In the absence of many private investment
opportunities, spending on simple domestic appliances and lighting, as well as
on small pumps and modest processing machinery is an attractive use of
available purchasing power, and implies a pent-up demand for electricity
consumption. The evidence of rapid consumption growth in Savannakhet province
as soon as electricity became available is compelling: a minimum of 20X of
households in sample townships and villages were connected within three years
of the line being extended there, with some villages virtually reaching
saturation.
1/   Non-electrified:  6 liters kerosene (KY 700-750) plus KU 200 for
fuelwood. Electrified: 2-3 light bulbs (KM 400-900) plus Kip 200 for
fuelwood.



AMUDB 17
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJE(CT
Table 1: SAVANNAKHET PROVINCE ELECTRICITY DEMAND (MWH)
Actual            Incremental Demand From Project Investmnt /a (Cumulatlve)
1986      89    90      91     92      93     94      95     96      97     98-2020
Residential           1              150    676  1,221  1,755  2,052  2,425  2,702  2,995  3,137  3,287
Commercial            1    8,400       1      23     32     40      42     46      49     51      52     53
Public services       J               12      61    116    162    199    246    482    626    748    828
Government offices             17
Subtotal              8,417    163    760  1,369  1,957  2,293  2,717  3,233  3,672  3,937  4,168
Irrigation
large/medium        ]      215    360    450    716  1,085  1,085  1,085  1,085  1,085  1,085  1,085
small               I                -     46      74     98    122    134    140    143    146    146
Industry
large/medium        1    2,490      91    735  1,275  1,638  2,089   2,94  2,649  2,936  3,223  3,423
small                               17     47      88    133    173    218    262    300    325    350
Subtoail              2,705    468  1,278  2,153  2,954  3,469  3,831  4,136  4,464  4,779  5,004
TOTAL                11,122    631  2,038  3,522  4,911  5,762  6,548  7,369  8,136  8,716  9,172
/a   Source:  Tata Consultants, December 24, 1986, Revised Electrification Plan (adjusted by mission
calculation).



AmNX 17
Page 4
- 105 -
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Table 2: CHAMPASSAK AND SARAVANE PROVINCE ELECTRICITY DEMAND (Huh)
Actual            Incremental Demand From Prolect Investment /a (Cumulative)
1985      90      91      92       93      94       95       96     97        98       99-2020
Champasak Grid
Residential/offices  |       4,837      237     705   1,281   2,235   2,692   3,419   4,305   5,306    5,769    6,300
Comercial             I                   -       2        7      13       14       19      23       35       36        37
Public services                167       16      45      111     195      233     304      704     999    1,246    1,315
Subtotal               5,004      253      752   1,399   2,443   2,939   3,742   5,032   6,340    7,051    7,652
Irrigation /b         ]         46     336      488      532     742      932     965      993   1,112    1,112    1,112
Industry
small               ]          -       -       32       75     143      199     26s      326     400       455       500
large/medium        1      1,143      29      439   1,357   2,030   2,834   3,429   4,098   4,680    5,259    5,760
Subtotal               1,189      365      959   1,964   2,915   3,965   4,653   5,417   6,192    6,826    7,372
TOTAL                  6,193      618   1,711   3,363   5,358   6,904   8.397  10,449  12,532   13,877   15,024
Saravane Grid
Residential/offices                       -       -      220     416      553     744      902     947       993    1,033
Commercial                               -        -        4       5        6       6        6       7         7         8
Public services                           -       -       55      78       98     118      248     314       374      434
Subtotal                 100        -        -     279      499     657      868   1,156   1,268    1,374    1,475
Irrigation                                -       -      41       81      104     126      176     189       203      216
Industry
small                                  -        -      19       33      45       57       69      81        85       90
large/medium                           -        -     468      964   1,044   1,214   1,497   1,893    2,469    2,969
Subtotal                 100        -        -     528   1,078   1,193   1,397   1,742   2,163    2,757    3,275
TOTAL                               -        -     806   1,577   1,849   2,265   2,898   3,430    4,130    4,750
Combined
Subtotal res/comm/pub.                 253      752   1,678   2,942   3,596   4,610   6,188   7,608    8,425    9,127
Subtotal irrig./ind.                   365      959   2,492   3,993   5,158   6,052   7,159   8,355    9,583   10,647
TOTAL                  6.293      618   1,711   4,170   6,935   8,754  10,662  13,347  15,963   18,008   19,774
/    Source:  Tata Consultants, op. cit.
Assume 102 load factor of new pumps.



AMNEX 18
- 106 -Pag  1 of 4
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN POVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PRWOCT
Economic Benefits and Costst Assuptions and Estimates
Shadow Wase Rate
1.        Unskilled and semi-skilled labor used in construction is shadow-
priced at 2001 of the nominal wage rate to account for subsidies and payment
in kind not included in money wage figures.
Labor Cost
2.        An average of 67Z of quoted local costs is assumed to be money
wages.
Standard Conversion Factor
3.        In the absence of an available standard conversion factor calcul-
ations for Laos, the conversion factor fgE non-traded goods is derived from an
analysis of the internal pricing system.- *or some tine to come, official
domestic prices of goods are to be set at "free market (i.a. parallel market)
prices" minus 5-101. Eventually, a cost-plus system including a taxing of
sales income above the estimated free market price is to be introduced. The
former implies a subsidy, the latter a tax compared to border price
equivalents. As present prices are subsidized, and the edium-term reforms
may not improve uch on the free-market-related subsidised price, a standard
conversion factor of 1.1 is assumed for purpose of the analysis of the
proposed project.
ExchAnge Rate 2J
4.        Generally used official exchange rates range from KU 10-KN 270
US$1, while the parallel market exchange rate reaches values of up to
KU 400U0$1.  Free market "equilibruim" exchange rates would probably be close
to KR 300sU8$l, as exemplified by the rate at which the foreign Trade Bank
sells foreign exchange to the "Comite Mixte d'Import-Export" for the purpose
of importing consumer goods to be sold in Vientiane. This rate is adopted for
project analysis purposes.
Fuel Prices
5.        Parallel market prices for purchases of kerosene and diesel fuel
beyond quota allocations are about KM 120/liter. An analysis of the economic
cost of fuel delivery yields the followingS
1/   CEN July 1986, paras. 4.22-4.29, 4.38-4.41.
2/   CEM July 1986, paras. 4.08, 4.42-4.44.



AMNEX 18
-107 -                         Page 2 of 4
US$/liter       Kie/liter (K300=$1)
CIF price at Thai border               0.26                   78
Economic cost of truck transport
at about US$1.40/vehicle-k. /a
average distance 300 kat
2,500 liter/truck                    0.17                  51
5,000 liter/truck                    0.08                  24
Total cost delivered retail         0.34-0.43              102-129
/a   Medium-size trucks on arth roads that are severely deteriorated.
The informal retail price of Kip 120/liter, therefore, appears economically
rational.
Benefits
6.        For each user categoryt the value of gross benefits of introducing
grid electricity to new consumers ranges from the full cost of using existing
alternative energy sources (kerosee lighting, diesel engines) to a minimum
represented by the expected tariff payments. Assuming a linearly sloping
demand curve for lighting or productive energy, the average benefit lies
halfway between thes extreomes.



- 108 -                         Page 3 of 4
A. RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL LIGHTING
KU               US$
Kerosene
6litser/ /month/household at KU 120/liter            720/month       2.40
Equivalent to about lOkWh/month                       72/kWh         0.24
Total cost including annuitized cost of lamp          75/kWh         0.25
Private neighborhood supply
KU 500/bulb/month at about 12 kWh/month               42/kWh         0.14
Housewiring, say US$50/house at 15 years and
121 discount rate                                  162/month       0.54
or                                                    11/kWh         0.04
Total Cost                                            53/kWh         0.18
Own generation
Capital cost US$330/kW annuitized                 12,000/yr./kW      40.00
at 4 hours daily                                     9/kWh         0.03
OliM                                               4,950/yr./kW       16.00
Fuel 0.4 liter/kWh at K 120/liter                     48/kWh         0.16
Total Cost                                            60/kWh         0.20
Minimum Value
Metered tariff (Southern Provinces)                   10/kWh         0.03
Housewiring (see above)                               11/kWh         0.04
Total Cost                                            21/kWh         0.07
The figures indicate a downward-sloping demand curve with a maximum benefit of
about US$0.25/kWh and a minimum of about US$0.07/kWh at the margin, or an
average of US$0.16/kWh (KM 48/kWh).



- 109 -                 ~~~~ANNEX 18
-~ lO9 -Page 4 of 4
B. INDUSTRY AND IRRIGATION
KN             US$
Diesel enRine
Annuitized capital cost of US$160/kW                  6,000         20/kW/year
O&M 5X of capital cost                                2,400           8/kW/year
At utilization of 1,000 hours/year                    8.0         0.03/kWh
Fuel 0.4 liter/kWh at KN 120/liter                    48.0        0.16/kWh
Total cost                                            56.0        0.19/kWh
Electric motor
Annuitized capital cost of US$90/kW                   3,300          11/kW/year
O&M 5X                                                1,200          4/kW/year
At 1,000 hours/year                                   4.50        0.02/kWh
Tariff                                                10.0        0.03/kWh
Total cost                                            15.0        0.05/kWh
The demand curve shows a maximum gross benefit of US$0.19/kWh and a minimum at
the margin of US$0.05/kWh, i.e. an average of US$0.12/kWh (KM 36/kWh).
C. EXPORT
It is assumed that the final agreement between ECAT and EDL on the price of
exported Xeset power of about US$0.03/kWh at high voltage at the border,
represents the benefit of exporting from the project (to be maintained in real
terms over time).
Cost of Imported Electricity
7.        Assuming that future agreements for export of power from Nam Ngum to
Thailand will result in a price of about US$0.03/kWh , the Ugi 0.5 wheeling
charge imposed by Thailand results in a border import price into Laos at
8avannakhet of US$0.035/kWh. Electricity imported at dry-season peak times
via the 115-KV line at Pakse to supplement Xeset production is assumed to be
valued at the same price as exports through this line, resulting in the
netting-out of imports against exports.



AM=U 19
- 110 -                         Page 1 of 2
LAO PDR
SWUTHERN PROVNICES LECTRIFICATION PROJECT
C6-t/Benefit Analysis
Assuptions
1.        First year of construction/expenditure:  1988
2.        First year of incremntal consumptions Savanakhet 1989
Champassak and Saravane 1990
(first year of consumption
supplied by imports througb.
new line).
10-year growth of consumption, then constant.
3.        Zeset Hydro:  7-year expenditure 1988-94 for 45 KW
leset Transmission: 3-year expenditure 1988-90.
Sources: - ADB draft appraisal report for total cost, and cost
split into foreign exchange and local costs
- EDL/IDA mission financial calculations, for phasing
and transmission line cost
4.        Selabams  4-year expenditure 1988-91
Sources$ - Tata revised report December 1986
- DL/IDA financial calculations
5.        Distribtion expenditure:
Source:   - Tata revised report December 1986, timing adjusted to
reflect points (1) to (4).
Reinforcemant of Nukdahan-Savannakhet cable 1993/94.
6.        Local cost adjusted with   (i) SCF - 1.1
(ii) 67X of local cost is labor
(iii) SWR a 2002 of nominal wage
(iv) Exchange rate K 300 a $1
Source: TAta revised report December 1986
7.        Consumer cost included in total cost.
8.        Losses:  132 in distribution system.
32 in export.
9.        Physical contingency:  Distribution system:       62.
Zeset line and Selabam: 102.



33lAM    19
- 111 -                            Page 2 of 2
10.       Operation and maintenance:         1X of capital cost.
11.       Xeset incremental generation:    100 GWh 1991
152 ¢Wh 1992/93
181 ¢Wh 1994 onwards.
Selabam incremental generation:   21 CVh 1992 onwards.



ANNEX 19
Table I
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits: Savannakhet Province
(US$'000, 1987 prices)
1998-
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    2020
Construction cost CIF                          1,626  1,268    356    288    748    570    970
Construction local                                35     45    127    136    166       58      41     32       4      4
O&E  1%                                                  16      30     35      39     48      54     64      65     65       65
Total incremental construction (NWh)                    631  2,038  3,522  4,911  5,762  6,548  7,369  8,136  8,716   9,172 ~
Required import as 15% losses (MWh)                     713  2,303  3,980  5,549  6,511  7,399  8,327  9,194  9,849  10,364   N
Cost of import at US$0.035/kWh                           25      81    139    194    228    259    291    322    345         363
Total Cost                               1,661  1,354    594    598  1,147    904  1,324    387    391    414          428
Benefit
Res/coum/PS at $0.16/kWh                                 26    122    219    313    367    435    517    588    630          667
Ind./agric. at $0.12/kWh                                 56    153    258    355    416    460    496    536    573          600
Total Benefit                                       82    275    477    668    783    895  1,013  1,124  1.203   1,267
IERR: 11.0%



ANNEX 19
Table 2
LAOS
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits: Champassak and Saravane Provinces
(USsooo0, 1987 prices)
1999-
1988    1989    1990      1991      1992      1993     1994      1995      1996     !997      1998     2020
Cost
Xeset CIF and local, 45 MW                  380   5,386   8,079    8,464    2,405    1,781    1,300
Xeset O06  1%                                                          138      223       247      265       278       278      278       278       278
Xeset Trans. CIF                         3,325   2,660       666
Xeset Trans. Local                          151     252      100
Xeset Trans. 0&M 12                                           64        72       7?        72       72        72        72       72        72        72
Selabam Extension CIF                       168     650   1,541    1,284
Selabam Extension Local                      26      69      115       46
Selaban Extension O&M 12                                                         39        39       39        39        39       39        39        39
Dlstributlon CIF                         2,799   2,302       653    1,173    3,161        532      106
Distributlon Local                           17      73      228      212       295       194      204       173        42       42        42       42
Distribution 0&M 12                                           52       61        75       109      116       119       121      122       122       122
Import cost                                                   21
Total Cost                          6,866  11,392  11.519   11,450    6.270    2,974    2,102           681      552       553       553      511
Xeset generation (MWh)                                            100,000  152,000  152,000  181,000  181,000  181,000  181,000  181,000  181,000
Salabas increm. generatl.on (MWh)                                            21,nOO   21,000   21,000   21,000   21,000   21,000   21,000   21,000
Total generation avallable (MWh)                                  100,000  173,000  173,000  202,000  202,000  202,000  202,000  202,000  202,000
Total retail demand (MWh)                                    618    1,711    4,170    6,935    8,754   10,662   13,347   15,963   18,008   19,774
Total required gen. at 131 losses                            698    1,933    4,712    7,837    9,892   12,049   15,082   18,038   20,349   22,345
Available for export minus 32 loss                                 95,125  163,239  160,209  186,344  184,253  181,310  178,443  176,201  174,265
Benefits
Res7com/pub at $0.16/kWh                                      40       120      268       471       575      738       990    1.217    1.348    1,460
Ind/Agric at US$0.12/kWh                                      44      115       299       479      619       726       859    1,003    1,150    1,278
Subtotal Laos                                           84       235       567      950    1.194    1.464    1.849    2.220    2.49R    2.738
Export at US$0.027/kWh /a                                           2,568    4,407    4,325    5,631    4,975    4,895    4,818    4,757    4,705
Total Benefit                                            84    2.803    4.974    5.275    6.825    6.439    6.744    7.038    7.255    7,443
IERR: 11.02
/a US$0.029 effective In 1991, adjusted to 1987 price levels.



ANNEX 20
- 114 -
LAO PDR
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 Lao PDR: Country Economic Memorandum, World Bank Report No. 6070-LA,
July 1986 (not attached).
A.2 Ten Years of Social Economic Development in Lao PDR, published by
State Statistical Center of the State Planning Commission.
S. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Rural Electrification Report for the Southern Provinces of Laos,
prepared by Tata Consulting Engineers in April 1983.
Vol. 1 Demand Forecasts and Electrification Plans
Vol. 2 Detailed Feasibility Studies for Houay Campi, Houay Nhang and
S. Champone Hydro Power Projects
Vol. 3 Potential Hydro Power Sites in Champassak, savannakhet and
Saravane Provinces
8.2  Xeset Hydropower Project, prepared by NorConsult, dated February
1985.
Vol. 1 Hydrology Design Memorandum
Vol. 2 Optimization Report
B.3 ADB Draft Appraisal Report for the Xeset Hydropower Project, October
1985.
B.4 Revised Electrification Plan of Southern Provinces, prepared by TCE,
dated December 1986.
B.5  Updated cost estimate prepared by TCE, dated February 1987.
C. Selected Work Sheets
C.1 Working sheets for financial forecasts (see Annex 16).
C.2 Analysis of Institutional Arrangements.



& Xsdt)'o Prois
PSC. P_-Fol
VuE. P _ & __                                                  li
&               _e "O PtidAmrltalnDo
22 V Tararlsshon US
nhk -n   olon o        I__
rXK*n            .        EcxdcPDept. _ 
NtxH  SNam_                                                        i
NumN   _                                                fi Se IpAnce 
Dbtbuflons  onM QoO                             _tXM   
I House    h Mkk            Tmi" 4
repi W- ho
omoss~~r
r-_   W |             -I 1gl~~~~~
g , I  _      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ A _ _ _ X L _
I :1,1u
X 0                  ,..            .        
g   Lr                                                      ,,



CHART 2 ORGANIZAIION CHART OF SOUTHEN PROVNU ELECIFRICAION PROJECT
ElECTRKTE DU LAOS
9,I
ft~~ CUe.  ~ ~ met CUe.          ft~~~ CUe.             toE ~Souamn Pro*ms,         IEee Seejhem Peoe*Ao.s
F C         0-0m                                                                 A*e.A*fto                45KV Un% gg Sta "f
A ~' ibi_| sa'8 b'_dl                            A T' I rT  Sr 
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~&*kfi                                                     ftom I  ,                         Wxf             Jt1- ---  - ----T    
Tew~um  bcm                                  UbouIPnrA.* SWaSwt    f*"                                                                aft                        (ar C
OA KV Ur_b Wo   .ccour4ord                      Acoountooa Scon
X ' § 1-_I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f -I 4rl i-l1   
, fnai .k .                                                     . . *
l  fIt   .  FI   w_J  
Cl 4 I C I f I q I q '1 {- I oftd=
F   I   H          I       l                       I "|           h           l  q        r->            I 1          lez s1        1  1=                      1        t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



miom WNW~~~w~wo 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  s OWR= Pi *ON
IJu|  l  lw  I D, oq A
s30^4w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VA0m unosFOM m                           a
"npows Uo        "oo n                                                             a s
monv_vmw_vg 03"uwm
gm no taowvommim c Ugdiw



.     2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



i 02-                                                                                                       CH,NA
I U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NG~                                    AO - ~-
Sam Nua  !-     *                                                     P
! )   7P RA 8 .A N                                                                          TM  D    
|OU   PHAN             ,.% .L   ._4.                                      MET
-2(f                                                                                                         NAM91 7   -   ---}'  5 gEoPI
, Luang Prv                                                                           KAMPUC <  20)
I          1       .;  IANG  KIHOANG9.^ 
-5J
/~~~~~~                Xlf 1j                                                               MALAYSI
__n,meV6 /hoang                                                                                  INDOW-NA
N.  /o a       n    s a                                                                        SI nsaapore k n
MENTME ,                  N..              4                                                   INy IA
Nakhon 
a \\ v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ,  16.
Nakhon * dk 
\   KIHAIO1UANE'-- 
THAILAND _
o h,2½    ~e o \
Mukdahanr ' >s- JK  3'/ S A VA N N X7      H E T I N.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Lciharaorn
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC
SOUTHERN PROVINCES ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT                                        SAR'AN(C                      16A-
OTHER WOWE  PROPOSED                                      a     .(
or by EShJ)
t 1-            1 Vi ¶W Transmission Lines
22W TransmissIon Unes                                          KONG
Q          LIl-                Hydropower Plants           A    po
A                     A       115W Substations        Sidndhorn DPalT6  '° u,k. 
Cha:    r
[111111  PRc)ect                                C      4       /            ,|Atopeu 
Paved Roads                                                           ATTOPEU
IC HA ,     AR                         }
Unpaved Roads
@3     National Capital         ,                        I
Province Boundaries
.   -   -   Intenational Boundrides                                                         of
-14                                                                  . .r                                    _ S
0        so       100     150                                                          W.(    w 
DEMOCRATIC  KAMPUCH EA .                                  7
104                                     106                               1
'                 ~~~~~MARCH 19§



