Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1826 LA
           (Southern Provinces Electrification Project)
                              between
                 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 1, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  February  1,  1988,  between  LAO PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the  Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be  carried  out by Electricite du Laos
(EDL)  with  the  Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such
assistance, the Borrower will  make  available to EDL the proceeds
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and EDL;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and EDL of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Loan" means  the  loan  provided  for in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     (d)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EDL pursuant to Section 3.O1
(c) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in  various currencies equivalent to nineteen
million   eight   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 19,800,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  a  special account in Banque pour le
commerce exterieur lao on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1993, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after  the  date  of  this  Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
Page  3
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.O7. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of  the  Credit  in   semiannual   installments  payable  on  each
February 1 and  August  1  commencing  August  1, 1997, and ending
February  1,  2037.   Each   installment   to  and  including  the
installment payable on February 1,  2007  shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be  one  and  one-half  percent  (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under  this Agreement, shall
cause EDL to  perform  in  accordance  with  the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the  obligations  of  EDL therein set forth,
shall take  and  cause  to  be  taken  all  action,  including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary  or  appropriate   to   enable   EDL   to  perform  such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall abstain from taking any action
which would affect the  ability  of  EDL  to  comply with its debt
service coverage obligations  set  forth  in  Section  4.02 of the
Project Agreement, and shall, in  a timely manner, take all action
(including, without limitation,  adjustments  to  the structure or
levels of electricity rates) to  ensure  that EDL performs all its
obligations under Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall relend the  proceeds of the Credit to
EDL under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and EDL under  terms  and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association which shall include:
          (i)  interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at
               a rate  of  eight  percent  (8%)  per  annum on the
               principal amount of  the  Subsidiary Loan withdrawn
               and outstanding from time to time;
         (ii)  the Subsidiary Loan shall  be  repaid over a period
               of twenty years, including  a  grace period of five
               years; and
        (iii)  EDL shall assume the foreign exchange risk.
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit,  and  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  4
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by  the provisions of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out  by  EDL  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of  the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
       (ii)    ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
      (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
       (ii)    furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
      (iii)    furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  EDL shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
Page  5
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable  that  EDL  will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  Any decree or regulation  governing the organization and
operation of EDL  shall  have  been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
ability of EDL to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EDL or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.O1.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.O1 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EDL; and
     (b)  the  Board   of   Executive   Directors   of  the  Asian
Development Bank (ADB) have approved the documents relating to the
financing by ADB of  the  construction  of the Xeset Hydroelectric
Power Station.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by EDL, and  is  legally  binding  upon EDL in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  EDL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and EDL in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of  the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall  cease  and  determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate  or  on the date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1.  The  Secretary  of  State  for  Finance of the
Page  6
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section ll.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section ll.Ol of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Secretary of State for Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          Vientiane
          Lao People's Democratic Republic
          Cable address:
               MINFINANCE
               Vientiane
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                    By /s/ K. Simpaseuth
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category             SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Works:                                      100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
Page  7
     (a)  Parts A, B,            7,530,000
          D and E of
          the Project
     (b)  Part F.2 of            2,790,000
          the Project
(2)  Goods:                                      100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures, and
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost)
     (a)  Part C of              5,510,000
          the Project
     (b)  Part H of                620,000
          the Project
(3)  Consultants'                                100% of foreign
     services                                    expenditures
     (a)  Parts A, B, C            210,000
          D and E of
          the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category             SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
     (b)  Parts F.1 and          1,380,000
          F.2 of the
          Project
     (c)  Part G of                650,000
          the Project
(4)  Consultants'                  180,000       10% of local
     services for                                expenditures
     Parts F.1, F.2
     and G of the
     Project
(5)  Unallocated                   930,000
                                __________
     TOTAL                     19,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
     (a)  no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
     (b)  no   withdrawals   shall   be   made   in   respect   of
Category (1)(b), unless  the  recommendations  of  the study under
Part F.1 of the Project  include a recommendation, satisfactory to
Page  8
the Association, for the carrying out  of Part F.2 of the Project;
and
     (c)  payments made for local  expenditures under Category (4)
shall not exceed the equivalent of SDR 180,000.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the  Project   are:  (i)  to  create  an
infrastructure for electricity supply  in the Borrower's provinces
of Champassak, Saravane  and  Savannakhet;  (ii)  to assist in the
economic development  of  said  provinces;  and  (iii)  to provide
electricity to consumers,  including  households, schools, cooper-
atives and hospitals.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Construction  of  about  115  kilometers  of  a  115  kV
          transmission line  from  Xeset,  through  Pakse,  to the
          border with the Kingdom of  Thailand, in the vicinity of
          the Sirindhorn hydroelectric power station.
Part B:   Construction of a 115 kV/22 kV substation at Pakse.
Part C:   Electrification  of  rural   and   urban  areas  in  the
          provinces  of   Champassak,   Saravane  and  Savannakhet
          including construction of 22 kV medium voltage lines and
          of  400  V/230  V  distribution  lines,  installation of
          22  kV/400  V/230   V   distribution  transformers,  and
          installation of house wiring and consumer connections.
Part D:   Construction and  equipping  of  a  prestressed concrete
          pole factory  and  a  wooden  pole  treatment factory at
          Pakse.
Part E:   Construction of four warehouses for storage of equipment
          and materials in  the  provinces of Champassak, Saravane
          and Savannakhet.
Part F:
     1.   Carrying out of a  pre-feasibility and feasibility study
          for future  hydroelectric  developments  in the Southern
          areas of the Borrower's  territory, including a detailed
          feasibility study for the upgrading and expansion of the
          Selabam Hydroelectric Power Station by about 2000 kW.
     2.   Engineering  and   preparation   of   the  hydroelectric
          development determined by the  study  in Part F.1 of the
          Project to be the most  feasible alternative and, in the
          event  that  such  alternative   is  the  upgrading  and
          expansion of the  Selabam  Hydrolectric Power Station by
          about 2000 kW, the construction of the same.
Part G:   Provision of technical assistance  to EDL for the review
          of its organization, management and financial systems.
Part H:   Acquisition  and  utilization   of   metering  and  loss
          reduction equipment; billing  and  office equipment; and
          communications equipment.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
Page  9
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits  shall  be  withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from  the  Credit  Account  under  the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other  evidence  as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
        (i)    the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
       (ii)    the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the  eligible  Categories minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
Page  10
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
