Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1826 LA
           (Southern Provinces Electrification Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                        ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
                      Dated February 1, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  February  1,  1988  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)  and ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
(EDL).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith  between  the  Lao   People's  Democratic  Republic  (the
Borrower) and the Association, the  Association has agreed to make
available  to  the  Borrower   an  amount  in  various  currencies
equivalent to  nineteen  million  eight  hundred  thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 19,800,000),  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development  Credit  Agreement, but only on condition
that  EDL  agree   to   undertake   such  obligations  toward  the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and EDL,  the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit  Agreement will be made available
to EDL on the terms  and  conditions  set forth in said subsidiary
loan agreement; and
     WHEREAS EDL, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. EDL declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial,  engineering  and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by  the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. EDL shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  EDL  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EDL shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) EDL shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange  views  with  the  Association  with  regard to the
progress of the Project, the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  EDL shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by EDL  of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. In  carrying  out  Part  G  of the Project, EDL
shall:
     (a)  by June 30, 1988, employ the consultants;
     (b)  by  June  30,  1990,  furnish  to  the  Association  for
comments the recommendations of the study; and
     (c)  thereafter, prepare and  carry  out  an action plan, the
terms and timing of which shall be acceptable to the Association.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of EDL
     Section 3.01. EDL shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility  practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Page  3
     Section 3.02. EDL shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
     Section 3.03. EDL shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section  3.04.  EDL  shall   carry  out  an  action  program,
acceptable to the Association,  for  the reduction of distribution
losses.
     Section  3.05.  EDL  shall   carry  out  an  action  program,
acceptable to the Association,  for  the reduction of arrears. For
the purposes of this Section, the word "arrears" means any payment
not made by the due date.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  EDL  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  EDL shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited, and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, EDL shall not incur  any  debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures  of  EDL shows that the estimated
net revenues of EDL for  each  fiscal  year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.1 times the estimated debt
service requirements of  EDL  in  such  year  on  all  debt of EDL
including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of EDL
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
Page  4
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
              (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                   operations and net non-operating income; and
              (B)  the  sum  of:  (1)   all  expenses  related  to
                   operations  including  administration, adequate
                   maintenance,  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu of
                   taxes, but excluding provision fordepreciation,
                   other non-cash  operating  charges and interest
                   and other charges  on  debt;  and (2) dividends
                   and major repairs expenditures.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A) revenues  from  all  sources  other  than those
                   related to operations; and
               (B) expenses, including taxes  and payments in lieu
                   of  taxes,  incurred   in   the  generation  of
                   revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means a forecast,
               expressed in dollars,  prepared  by EDL not earlier
               than four months  prior  to  the  incurrence of the
               debt in question,  which  both  the Association and
               EDL  accept  as  reasonable  and  as  to  which the
               Association has notified  EDL of its acceptability,
               provided that  no  event  has  occurred  since such
               notification  which  has,   or  may  reasonably  be
               expected in the future  to have, a material adverse
               effect  on  the   financial   condition  or  future
               operating results of EDL.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, EDL shall produce, for  each  of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year  ending  on  December  31,  1987  funds  from internal
sources, equivalent to not less than  20% of the annual average of
EDL's capital expenditures incurred,  or  expected to be incurred,
for that year, the  previous  fiscal  year  and the next following
fiscal year.
     (b)  Before November 30  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, EDL
shall, on the basis  of  forecasts, expressed in dollars, prepared
by EDL and  satisfactory  to  the  Association,  review whether it
would meet the requirements set  forth in paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and the next  following fiscal year and shall furnish
to the Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  EDL  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for EDL's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  EDL  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures within its power  (including, without limitation, seeking
and implementing approved adjustments  of  the structure or levels
of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A) the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                   operations, net  non-operating  income  and any
Page  5
                   reduction in working  capital  other than cash;
                   and
               (B) the  sum  of:  (1)   all  expenses  related  to
                   operations, including  administration, adequate
                   maintenance and taxes  and  payments in lieu of
                   taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and
                   other non-cash operating charges), debt service
                   requirements,  other   cash   distributions  of
                   surplus, increase in working capital other than
                   cash and other cash outflows other than capital
                   expenditures;    and    (2)    major    repairs
                   expenditures.
         (ii)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities  at  the  end of each
               fiscal year.
         (iv)  The term "current assets  excluding cash" means all
               assets other than cash  which could in the ordinary
               course of business  be  converted  into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,  inventories  and  pre-paid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next fiscal year.
          (v)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
         (vi)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
        (vii)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures incurred on account  of fixed assets, includ-
               ing interest  charged  to  construction, related to
               operations.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of EDL  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
Page  6
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
EDL of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For EDL:
          Electricite du Laos
          P. O. Box 309
          Vientiane
          Lao People's Democratic Republic
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                DIRELEC                     4311 EDL VTE LS
                VIENTIANE
                Laos
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  EDL,  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
General Manager or  such  other  person  or  persons  as EDL shall
designate in writing,  and  EDL  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
                    By /s/ K. Simpaseuth
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Goods and works shall be  procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with  procedures  consistent  with  those  set forth in
Sections I and II  of  the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Lao People's
Democratic Republic  may  be  granted  a  margin  of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and  paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the Lao People's Democratic Republic
may grant  a  margin  of  preference  to  domestic  contractors in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
     With respect to  procurement  of  items under Category (2)(a)
and (b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
     (a)  Minor equipment, testing  instruments  and tools costing
          less than $100,000 per  contract and aggregating no more
          than $1,000,000  in  total  value,  may  be  procured by
          international shopping procedures in accordance with the
          provisions of paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines; and
     (b)  Spare parts  and  tires  for  existing equipment costing
          less than $50,000 per  contract  and aggregating no more
          than $500,000  in  total  value,  may  be  procured from
          original suppliers through  direct  contracting on terms
          and conditions acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
          equivalent of $400,000 or more, the procedures set forth
          in paragraphs 2 and  4  of  Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
Page  8
          shall apply. Where payments for  such contract are to be
          made out of the  Special  Account, such procedures shall
          be modified to ensure  that  the two conformed copies of
          the contract required to be furnished to the Association
          pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnish to the
          Association prior to the making of the first payment out
          of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
          ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
          3 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to  the Guidelines shall apply.
          Where payments for such contract  are  to be made out of
          the Special Account,  such  procedures shall be modified
          to ensure that the two  conformed copies of the contract
          together  with  the  other  information  required  to be
          furnished to the Association  pursuant to said paragraph
          3 shall be furnished to  the  Association as part of the
          evidence to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph 4 of
          Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
          (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
          Association has authorized  withdrawals  from the Credit
          Account on the basis  of statements of expenditure. Such
          contracts shall be  retained  in accordance with Section
          4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist EDL in carrying out the Project, EDL shall
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
