Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER TF029593
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Public Sector Modernization-Judicial Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
 on its own behalf and as Administrator
of Grant Funds provided by JAPAN
Dated  September 4 , 1996
GRANT NUMBER  TF029593
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 4, 1996, between the Republic of Guatemala (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting on its own behalf (the Bank) and as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds 
Page  2
provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has requested the 
Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth; 
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient has requested the Bank to carry out the Technical 
Assistance;
WHEREAS (D) the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on the terms 
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section 1.01. The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants (the 
Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include Consultants with expertise in the following 
areas:
(a)
public sector modernization; and
(b)
judicial reform.
Section 1.02. As used in this Agreement, the terms "dollars" and "$" mean the currency 
of the United States of America, and the term "Consultants" includes individual consultants as 
well as any consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section 1.01.
Section 1.03. The Consultants are expected to commence their services on August 20, 
1996 and to provide a total of 52 man-months of service between that time and March 28, 1997. 
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Bank and the Administrator
Section 2.01. The Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical Assistance shall be in 
an amount of three hundred and thirty thousand dollars ($330,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance the following 
expenditures:
(a)
in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(i)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(ii)
international and local travel expenses; and
(iii)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred 
by the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of 
their services; and
(b)
 computer equipment and training.
Section 2.03. The Bank shall make reasonable efforts to secure the services of the 
Consultants.
Section 2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants and the 
procurement of the computer equipment shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall 
be done according to the Bank's applicable procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate, through its Supreme Court, with the 
Administrator, the Bank and the Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried 
out promptly and effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its 
officials, agents and representatives.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's 
territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be provided with any necessary 
entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange documents and travel documents 
required for their stay in the Recipient's territories during the duration of the Technical 
Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and supplies 
required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the personnel of the 
Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or 
permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the Technical 
Assistance;
Page  4
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's territories 
reasonable amounts of foreign currency for their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants and such 
personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed under the laws and 
regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the Consultants and such personnel in 
respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out of the 
Technical Assistance;
(ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which, after having been brought into such 
territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them;
(iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which will be consumed therein or become the 
property of the Recipient; and
(iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the Consultants or 
such personnel (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent 
residents of the Recipient's territories) or the dependents of such 
personnel for their personal use and which will be consumed therein or 
subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them upon their respective 
departure from the Recipient's territories, provided that the Consultants, 
such personnel and their dependents shall follow the usual customs 
procedures of the Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's 
territories.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims arising out 
of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by third parties against the 
Administrator or the Bank. The Recipient shall indemnify the Administrator and the Bank 
against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising out of, or resulting from, any acts or 
omissions in connection with the Technical Assistance, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrator or the Bank, as the case may be.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section 4.01. The Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator shall, from time to time, at 
Page  5
the request of any party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance and consult on any reports 
prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any recommendations made in those 
reports.
Section 4.02. The Bank and the Administrator may use any reports prepared by the 
Consultants for any purpose that the Bank or the Administrator, as the case may be, may consider 
appropriate but those reports may not be made public except by agreement between the 
Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure
to Exercise Rights
Section 5.01. The rights and obligations of the Bank, the Administrator and the Recipient 
under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms 
notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary. Neither the 
Bank nor the Administrator nor the Recipient shall be entitled in any proceeding under this 
Article to assert any claim that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable 
because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Section 5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy 
accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, power 
or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default. No action of 
such party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or 
impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties.
Section 6.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Bank and the Administrator in 
writing to terminate the Technical Assistance. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, 
terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Technical Assistance if any of 
the following circumstances shall have occurred and be continuing:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment of principal or interest or any 
other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any loan or guarantee agreement 
between the Recipient and the Bank; or (ii) under any development credit agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association; or (iii) in consequence of any guarantee or other financial 
obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any third party with the agreement of the 
Recipient.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this Agreement.
Page  6
(c)
The Bank or the Association shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the Association because of a failure by the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement or any guarantee agreement with the Bank.
(d)
Any event shall have arisen that, in the opinion of the Bank or the Administrator, 
as the case may be, interferes or threatens to interfere with the successful implementation of the 
Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its purposes, or the execution of the Technical 
Assistance in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased to 
be a member of the Bank; or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the International Monetary 
Fund.
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient in or pursuant to this Agreement, or any 
statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Administrator 
in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material respect.
Section 6.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the Recipient and 
the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further action that may be 
necessary or desirable.
Section 6.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall 
not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representation
Section 7.01. All communications with respect to this Agreement shall be addressed as 
follows:
For the Recipient:
Presidente
Corte Suprema de Justicia y Organismo Judicial
Palacio de Justicia, 3er nivel
Zona 1
Ciudad de Guatemala
Guatemala
Telex: 
9207 MINFIP GU
Page  7
For the Administrator and the Bank:
Director
Central America Country Department
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By  /s/ José Alejandro Arévalo Albúrez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of the Grant
By  /s/ Robert Lacey
Acting Regional Vice President and Acting Director
Central America Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
By  /s/ José López-Cálix
Bank’s Resident Representative in Guatemala
SCHEDULE
Page  8
Description of Technical Assistance
A
technical assistance program consisting of the following activities in connection with 
the preparation of a public sector-modernization project.
1.
Consultant services to: (i) review and analyze the structure of the judicial sector and past 
reform initiatives and studies; (ii) examine technology reforms undertaken in the court system; 
(iii) evaluate the operation of the courts in selected areas by the Recipient and the Administrator 
including the adequacy of fiscal allocations, expenditure effectiveness of the judiciary budget 
and  human resource management systems; (iv) evaluation of the court records system including 
case processing procedures, filing systems, record storage forms management, retention and 
destruction of court records and  case processing; (v) evaluate physical infrastructure of courts 
and human resource development policies and procedures for judicial personnel; (vi) evaluate 
alternative dispute resolution methods and implementation requirements of the new arbitration 
law; (vii) evaluate civil, administrative and commercial procedural legislation and regulations; 
(viii) evaluate barriers of access to commercial justice; (ix) evaluate legal aid programs;  and (x) 
evaluate and design legal education and training programs for judicial personnel.
2.
(a)
Consulting services for the design of a pilot program for court performance 
improvement; (b) carrying out of workshops with judges and other stakeholders on judiciary 
reform  matters; and (c) study tours for Supreme Court personnel and/or other selected personnel, 
agreed between the Recipient and the Administrator, on judicial reform matters .
3.
(a)
Consulting services for coordination and implementation of the above technical 
assistance activities and the identification of key areas, agreed between the Recipient and the 
Bank, for public sector reform; and (b) training on Bank norms and procedures for Project 
implementation
