Page  1
October 21, 1997
Lic. José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Zona 1
Guatemala, Guatemala
Re: Japanese Grant for the preparation of a Judicial Reform Project
Grant No.025489
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate  the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to 
make a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred ninety five thousand Dollars 
(US$495,000) (the Grant) to Republic of Guatemala (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. 
The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in 
paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract 
the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Donna Dowsett- Coirolo
Director
Central America Department
Page  2
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By:
/s/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 21, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the Judicial 
Reform Project.  The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given 
are as follows:
(a)
Design of a supervision system to evaluate the operations of the courts in the 
Recipient’s territory.
(b)
Carrying out of studies with respect to corruption and institutional coordination 
within the judiciary.
(c)
Preparation of a master plan to identify the actions to be undertaken by the 
Recipient’s Supreme Court (the Supreme Court) for the establishment of a planning 
department and regional judicial administration offices in urban and rural areas.
(d)
Carrying out of study tours abroad with respect to judicial administration.
(e)
(1) Carrying out of assessments of the participation of women and indigenous 
people in the judicial system; and (2) preparation of an action plan to promote the 
participation of women and indigenous people in the judicial system.
(f)
Preparation of a pilot program to improve the administration of justice, such 
Page  3
program to focus, inter alia, in the analysis of debt collection, payment of alimony and tax 
collection cases.
(g)
Carrying out of studies and/or surveys with respect to the cost of litigation (in 
urban and rural areas), the access to legal information by the judges, the training needs of 
justices of the peace and the infrastructure of the courts.
(h) 
Organization of a seminar on customary law.
(i)
Carrying out of consultation seminars with the stakeholders in the judiciary 
system.
(j)
(1) Preparation of a master plan to identify the actions to be undertaken by the 
Supreme Court for the establishment and functioning of the office of external relations at 
the Supreme Court and for the participation of users in the reform of the judiciary; and (2) 
design and implementation of a program to inform the public with respect to the actions 
taken and/or to be undertaken by the Supreme Court to modernize the judiciary.
(k)
Strengthening of the Project Unit through the provision of technical assistance and 
the acquisition and utilization of the computer equipment required therefor. For purposes 
of this subparagraph, the term “Project Unit” means the unit established within the 
Supreme Court.
(l)
Provision of training on Bank norms and procedures for Project implementation.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services, training and computer 
equipment required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities 
promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall 
indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims 
against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by September 30,1998. After that date, 
Page  4
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by September 30,1998. After that date, 
the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in 
the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done 
according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.  The procurement of the goods required for the 
Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s 
applicable procedures. Immediately after the completion of the Activities, the Bank shall transfer 
to the Recipient the property rights of the goods mentioned in paragraph 2 above.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than 
nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. 
Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, 
after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds 
for the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient 
has failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient , or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that 
is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
