Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER
4401-GU
Loan Agreement
(Judicial Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January
22, 1999
LOAN NUMBER
4401-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January
22, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank). 
WHEREAS
(A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, and, for the
purposes of assisting in the implementation of certain activities set forth in Article
III of the Accord on the Strengthening of the Civil Power and Function of the Army in
a Democratic Society
(Acuerdo sobre Fortalecimiento del Poder Civil y Funcio
ón del
Ejeército en Una Sociedad Democraática) dated September 19, 1996, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS
(B) the Borrower has received from the Government of Sweden and the 
United Nations DevelpomentDevelopment Program
(UNDP) additional funds in the amount of 
US$[2,400,000] for the purposes of financing Part A.1 (a) of the Project (the Swedish- 
UNDP Contribution), on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreements entered 
into between the Government of Sweden, the UNDP and the Borrower on March
31, 1998 and 
on May
14,
19980
(Proyecto GUA/98/023 Programa de Fortalecimiento del Estado de 
Derecho
–
Organismo Judicial), (such agreements collectively called the Swedish-UNDP 
Contribution Agreements); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The 
“General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December
2,
1997
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section
1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Administrative ArrangementSubsidiary Agreement” 
means the arrangement
referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Banco de Guatemala” 
means the Borrower
’s central bank; “Central Office” 
means the central administrative office of the Judiciary Branch
(as herinafter 
defined)
located in Guatemala City;
(c)
“Implementation Letter” 
means the letter dated September
18, 1998 of even 
date herewith from the President of the Judiciary Branch
(as hereinafter defined) to 
the Bank setting forth the Project’s performance indicators and targets;
(d)
“Judiciary Branch” 
means Organismo Judicial, the Borrower
’s branch 
responsible for administering and dispensing judicial services in the Borrower’s 
territory pursuant to Article
203
of the Borrower’s 1985 Constitution and Article 51 
of Congressional Decree
2-89 of January 10, 1989; 
(e)
“Judicial School” 
means Escuela de Estudios Judiciales, the school
established pursuant to Acuerdo No.40-92 by the Corte Suprema de Justicia, dated 
November
25, 1992;
(f)
“Modernization Commission” 
means Comisi
ón de Modernización del Organismo 
Judicial, the Judiciary Branch’s commission established pursuant to Acta No. 40-96 by 
the Corte Suprema de Justicia, dated August
21,
1996;
“Master Plan” 
mMeans Plan
Maestro de Infraestructura del Organismo Judicial, the Judiciary Branch’s 
Infrastructure Plan dated August
1998;
(g)
“Operational Manual” 
means the manual and its respective technical
annexes for the operation of the Project referred to in Section
3.01 (d) of this 
Agreement;
(h)
“PCU” 
means the unit referred to in Section
3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i)
“Programa RAC” 
means Programa de Resoluci
ón Alternativa de Conflictos
(RAC)” 
means the alternative conflict resolution program described in Part C
.1 (b) of 
the Project;
(j)
“Special Account ” 
means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
“Subsidiary Agreement” 
means the arrangement referred to in Section
3.01 
(b) of this Agreement; and
(l)
“Unidad de Resolución Alternativa de Conflictos (RAC)” 
means the
alternative conflict resolution unit referred to in Section
3.09 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty
three million Dollars
($33,000,000). 
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement for expenditures
Page  3
made
(
or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made
)
in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de Guatemala on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5
to this Agreement. 
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be  June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section
2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent
(1%) of the amount of the Loan.
On or promptly after the Effective Date, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section
2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section
2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” 
means the initial period from and including the
date of this
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date
occurring
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
from and including an
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the
next following Interest Payment
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” 
means any date specified in Section
2.07 
of this
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” 
means, for each Interest Period, the London
interbank
offered rate for six-
month deposits in Dollars for
value the first day of such
Interest Period
(or, in the case of the
initial Interest Period, for value the
Interest Payment Date occurring
on or next preceding the first day of such
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” 
means, for each Interest Period
: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
minus
(or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such
Interest Period, below
(or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other
reference rates, for
six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank
’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
loans
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six
(6)
months
’
notice to the Borrower
of the new basis.
The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section
2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
Page  4
arrears on February
15
and August
15
in each year
.
Section
2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
Section
2.09. The President of the Judiciary Branch and any person or persons 
whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section
2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section
3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project through its Judiciary Branch with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, financial and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower 
through its Ministry of Public Finance shall enter into an administrative
arrangementssubsidiary aagreement satisfactory to the Bank
(the Subsidiary
AgreementAdministrative Arrangement) with its Judiciary Branch for the purposes of 
providing the necessary resources required for the carrying out of the Project. 
(c)
The Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall maintain during the 
implementation of the Project, the Modernization Commission for the purposes of, inter
alia, providing policy guidance on, and monitoring and supervising the implementation
of the Project.
(d)
The Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory to the Bank
(the Operational
Manual), said manual to include, inter alia, the detailed procedures and criteria 
(regarding the procurement of goods, works and consultlants
’
services, disbursements;
financial management, auditing and organization of the PCU) related to the 
implementation of the Project. 
Section
3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4
to this
Agreement.
Section
3.03. The Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall maintain 
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with the indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation
Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
Section
3.04. (a) The Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall establish 
and thereafter operate and maintain during the implementation of the Project, a
Project coordination unit
(the PCU) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory 
to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to coordinate, monitor and
supervise the implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall ensure that the PCU is 
at all times headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate
numbers, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section
3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall, not later than
forty five days after the conclusion of each calendar semester during the
implementation of the Project, starting in
1999, prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request with
respect to the progress made by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project during
the calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of such report. 
Page  5
Section
3.06. The Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall:
(a)
Not later than September 30 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting in the year
1999, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, with respect to the activities to be carried out under the Project during the
calendar year following the date of presentation of such plan; and
(b)
In the preparation of the annual plans referred to in paragraph (a) 
above, the Borrower shall take into account the contents set forth in the
corresponding progress reports referred to in Sections
3.05 of this Agreement.
Section
3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall, not later than
August
31
of each year of Project implementation, starting in
1999, review jointly 
with the Bank the progress made by the Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, in: (i) 
carrying out the Project; and
(ii) achieving the objectives of the Project, all based 
on the indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation Letter, and in the
corresponding reports referred to in Section
3.05
of this Agreement, and, thereafter,
take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the
Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, and the Bank, during the review referred to in
this paragraph, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the
achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the
timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section
3.08. Prior to the carrying out of Part A.3 (cf) of the Project, 
including the relevant procurement of goods and selection of consultants, the
Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall furnish to the Bank for approval, the
two pilot locations where it intends to develop the judicial information systems
referred to in such Part of the Project.
Section
3.09. For the purposes of carrying out of Part C.1 (b) of the Project, 
including the relevant procurement of goods and selection of consultants, the
Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall: (a) furnish to the Bank for approval, 
the two pilot locations where it intends to carry out the Programa RAC; and
(b)
by not
later than March
31, 1999, establish a coordination unit (the Unidad RAC) with basic 
structure, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
Section
3.10. The Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall, by not later 
than July
1,
1999, furnish evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that its 
justice-of-the-peace courtsw system  isare in the process of being being reorganized 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank pursuant to Part C.1 (c) of the Project.
Section
3.11. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Administrative 
ArrangementSubsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Administrative ArrangementSubsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section
3.12. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section
4.01. (a) The Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall establish 
and thereafter maintain a financial management system in the PCU satisfactory to the
Bank, including records and separate accounts and prepare financial statements in a
Page  6
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph
(a)
of this Section and the records and accounts for the
Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four
months after the end of each such year
: (A) certified 
copies of the financial
statements referred to in paragraph
(a)
of
this Section for such year as so
audited; and
(B) an opinion on such 
financial statements, records and accounts
and a report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and
(C) an opinion by said 
auditors on the procurement of goods and works, and the employment of
consultants under Schedule
4
to this Agreement; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said
auditors, as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through its
Judiciary Branch, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account was
made, all records
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank
’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit
referred to in paragraph
(b)
of this Section and that the
report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section
5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Swedish-UNDP Contribution shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Swedish-UNDP Contribution Agreements.
This
Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(ii) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
that the Congressional Decree 2-89 of January 10, 1989 shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
Page  7
adversely the ability of the Judiciary Branch to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section
5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph
(b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
30
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section
6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
That the Operational Manual has been furnished to the Bank. 
(b)
That a plan, as provided in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement, for the 
activities to be carried out under the Project during
1999
has been furnished to the
Bank. That the Administrative ArrangementSubsidiary Agreement has become effective. 
That the PCU has been established and staffed as provided in Section
3.04 (a) and (b) 
of this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
that the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 
(a) of this 
Agreement has been established; and 
(ii)
that the Borrower, through its Judiciary Branch, shall have 
adopted a format,
acceptable to the Bank, to prepare the its financial
statements as provided in
referred to Section
4.01(a) of this Agreement. 
Section
6.02. The date April 22, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section
7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section
7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas P
úblicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Cívico
Zona
1, Guatemala
Cable address: 
MINFIP
Guatemala, Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  8
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By
/s/
Pedro Miguel Lamport Kelsall
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/
Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
%
of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
2,400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures;
100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and
90%
of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(2)
Works
 11,000,000
90%
(3)
Consultants'
 14,000,000
100%
Services
(including
technical
assistance)
(4)
Training
2,700,000
100%
(5)
Administrative
600,000
100% until April
Expenses
1, 2001; 75% until
April
1,
2003; and
50%
thereafter
Page  9
(6)
Fee
330,000
Amount due under
Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
1,970,000
TOTAL
33,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term 
“foreign expenditures” 
means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” 
means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Training” 
means expenditures
(other than those for Consultants’ 
services)
incurred by the Borrower to carry out training activities under the Project,
including the per-diem and travel cost of trainers and trainees; and
(d)
the term “Administrative Expenses” 
means the operating cost of the PCU
including those those
(for office supplies and materials, and travel, support staff
(salaries), office expenses) that would not have been incurred absent the Project 
.such as office supplies, materials and communications costs, travel costs, and 
salaries of support staff. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,300,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories
(1)
through
(5)
set forth in the table in paragraph
1
of this
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures within the twelve months
immediately prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods or works 
costing less than $2150,000 equivalent; (b) under contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) under contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (d) for 
training and administrative expenses of the table in paragraph
1
of this Schedule; all
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE
2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the Borrower’s judicial system by 
promoting measures aiming at enhancing the effectiveness, accessibility and
credibility of its Judiciary Branch, through a participatory process involving judges
and users of the Borrower’s judicial system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening Institutional Capacity of the Judiciary Branch
1.
Development of a new managerial administrative and organizational model:
(a)
Design and commence the implementation of a new managerial and 
organizational and administrative model model for the Judiciary Branch at the central
and regional levels, such model to include, among of the inter alia, the following
minimum characteristics
: (i) strategies for an optimum resource utilization and 
management change;
(ii) proposals for decentralizing and decentralizingoncentrating 
administrative functions of the Judiciary Branch;
(iii)
development of performance
organizational standards for the organization of the Judiciary Branch; and
(iv) 
Page  10
proposals to improve the organizational administration arrangements of courts at all
levels, including their supervision of judges.
(b)
Support for Carrying out the implementation and follow-up, evaluation and 
implementation of the new model referred to in Part A.1 (a) above through, inter alia, 
the provision of training for staff of the Judiciary Branch.
2.
Improvement of the administrative administrative capacity and,  human resources 
of the Judiciary Branch and strengthening of the judicial careers:
(a)
Administrative modernization through: (i) strengthening the planning and 
institutional development function;
(ii)
strengthening the office for information
technology development;
(iii) developing and implementing a master plan for 
information technology, including design and training with regard to an integrated
judicial and management information system; and
(iv)
establishing of at least two
regional judicial centers of the Judiciary Branch, in Quetzaltenango covering the
Departments of San Marcos, Huehuetenango, Suchitepequez, Retalhuleu and Quetzaltenango
and in Escuintla covering the Departments of Santa Rosa and Escuintla, and the
municipalities of San MiguelPedro Yepocapa y San Miguel Pochuta in the Department of
Chinmaltenango with automated administrative functions, electronic mail links to the
Ccentral Ooffice, and training, logistical and infrastructure support.
(b)
Development of a human resource policy and judicial career initiatives 
implementation support mechanisms through: (i) following-upapplicationying and 
evaluating ong the policy,of norms and standards for recruitment, selection, training,
performance and evaluation, and incentive system  of judges,
(including jueces and
jueces de paz), and administrative and judicial support staff and for the incentive
system applicable to them;
(ii) implementing and evaluating and implementing the 
automated integrated human resource management system developed under the integrated
judicial information and management system  referred to in Part A.2 (a) (iii) above; 
(iv) providing support to the Judicial School in carrying out comprehensive and 
integrated regional training programs for civil, tax, labor and family court judges to
upgrade their professional skills, strengthen their service culture and knowledge in
selected areas such as law, multicultural and linguistic matters and , ethical
standards and
“service culture” of service; (v) carrying out of comprehensive and 
integrated training programs for administrative and judicial support staff; and
(vi) 
carrying out of a salary review study of the Judiciary Branch.
3.
Improvement of the operation of courts: 
(a)
Carrying out of a national inventory of court cases to develop delay 
reduction programs
(in particular for including in such areas as labor, tax, family,
civil, and commercial and administrative disputes), preparing an integrated 
statistical judicial information system, and designing, processing and analyzing
developing performance indicators and assesingassessing results.
(b)
Revision and sSimplification and revision of administrative procedures in 
justice-
of-the -peace, first instance and appeal courts in Guatemala City, to reduce 
backlogs and improve transparency.
(c)
Carrying out Revision of thea judicial process reengineering, including 
preparation and support support for preparation and thetraining, implementation and
preparation of of administrative and legislative reform proposals and their evaluation
through a series of workshops, and internal and external consultations and provision
of training.
(d)
Expansion Increasing e the number of judicial ancillary support service 
centers, that provide services such as notification processes and case distribution. 
(e)
Carrying out of related studies for strengthening and evaluating the 
operation of courts. 
(f)
Developmenting of judicial information systems for Guatemala City and for 
two other pilot locations.
Part B:
Anti-Corruption Support
Page  11
1.
Preventive measures: (a) preparation and implementation of an ethics code for 
the judiciary;
(b) carrying out of a study on the applicability of relevant 
international treaties to in the Judiciary Branch such as
(e.g. the Inter-American 
Convention Against Corruption dated March
29,
1996;) in the Judiciary Branch; (c) 
development of other normative, procedural, and organizational deterrents, including
rules and sanctions, an incentive system
(e.g. compensation) for judges and other 
personnel, and a judicial statistics and court decisions publication system;
(d)
carrying out quarterly meetings on corruption with citizen groups;
(e) carrying out of 
a studiesy on the introduction of oral procedures in the judicial systemdifferent
areas of law including preparation of drafts of laws and their follow-up; and (f) 
carrying out training of staff on anti-corruption measures.
2.
Control measures: (a) establishment of a judicial sector anti-corruption 
commission with broad public access, and participation of different sectors of the
society to facilitate management of complaints and provision of assistance to the
complainants;
(b) reorganization of the Department of Supervision of Courts 
(Supervisi
óon General de Tribunales) and streamlining of the administrative 
disciplinary system procedures including the establishment of an office to receive
complaints;
(c)
monitoring of pending cases;
(d) development of a system to register 
lawyers’
assistants
(procuradores) to address the problems of unauthorized litigants 
accessing the courts;
(e)
development of internal systems to promote for disclosure of
personal assets by judges and other personnel; and
(f)
carrying out the studies on
corruption and improvement of systems to receive complaints. 
Part C:
Strengthening Access to Justice
1.
Diversification of judicial services and reorganization of justice-of-the-peace 
courts system:
(a)
Carrying out of  a studiesy on the characteristics of the rural and 
indigenous urban communities with emphasis on those communities receiving less
judicial services and including those communities with high geographic mobility
characteristics such as indigenous, refugees and displaced populations, such studies
to aim at preparing policies for improving the access to and quality of justice, and
to determine the socio-economic, geographic and cultural (including the customary 
practices as and other communities, to profile and identify principles, criteria,
decisions and other features of their traditional dispute settlement mechanisms, to
compare their needs with formal court system services and to generate knowledge and
prepare policy inputs to improve access to the judicial system and to establish
traditional
(customary) dispute settlement mechanisms within or alongside the formal 
system.traditional dispute settlement mechanisms) characteristics of such communities 
and their needs for judicial services.
 
(b)
Carrying out of studies of the rural and urban communities with emphasis 
on those communities receiving less judicial services, with emphasis oand inncluding
those communities of with high geographic mobility characteristics such as indigenous,
refugees and displaced populations, such studies to aim at preparing policies for
improving the access to and quality of justice, and to determine the socio-economic, 
geographic and cultural
(including the customary practices as traditional dispute 
settlement mechanisms) characteristics of such communities and their needs for 
judicial services and to assist in the preparation of policies for improving the
access to and quality of justice. 
(c)
Carrying out of studies of rural and urban communities with emphasis on 
those receiving less judicial services, including communities of high geographic
mobility
(in particular indigenous, refugees and displaced populations) to assist in 
the preparation of policies to improve access and quality of justice, such studies to
determine the socio-economic, geographic and cultural characteristics (including the 
customary practices and traditional dispute resolution mechanisms) and needs for 
judicial services of such communities. 
 
(d)
Design, creation and operation of an alternative dispute resolution 
mechanisms coordination unit
(Unidad RAC), including the strengthening and 
evaluationcarrying out of a pilot program
(Programa RAC)
for courtconciliation and
mediation
(civil, and commercial,  procedures, family and labor matters) for first 
instance courts in Guatemala City and in carrying out of similar programs in two other
pilot locations, such programs to include the development of training materials, the
Page  12
training of mediators, conciliators and the public and the development of a
dissemination campaign. 
(e)
Reorganization of the Borrower
’s justice-of-the-peace courts system for 
addressing rural communities’ needs (by streamlining the coverage, providing of 
conciliation and other skills, training, and logistical support)
and preparation of
regulations to better define the role and functions profile of the
justices-of-the-peace.
2.
Expansion of judicial infrastructure through the construction and rehabilitation 
of courthouses in the interior of the country
(including the two regional centers
(Centros omplejos Judiciales Regionales) referred to in Part A.2 (a) (iv) above, two 
departmental centers
(Complejos Judiciales Departamentales) in Huehuetenango and 
Sacatepéequez and six justice-of-the-peace courts in the municipalities of Dolores, La 
Libertad, San Andreés, San Joseé, San Luis and Santa Ana, within the Department of 
Peteén), and carrying out development of the an infrastructure study second phase of 
the pmIOJ Master Plan at the national level as a follow-up to ongoing works being 
carried out by the Judiciary Branch. 
3.
Public participation program for access to justice:
Carrying out of projects, through the promotion of partnerships with donors,
non-governmental organizations and other participantsactors, for developing broader 
public participation in access to justice programs such as free legal assistance for
the poor, access to justice for young people and women, analysis of costs of
litigation and other related activities that will promote social reconstruction and
trust in post war conflict areas.
Part D:
Social Communication, Strengthening of the Modernization Commission and 
Project
Coordination Unit
1.
Social communication program: (a) strengthening of the social communication unit 
in the Judiciary Branch;
(b)
development and implementation of a long term social
communication strategy;
(c) development of internal (vertical and horizontal) and 
inter-institutional communication mechanisms; (d) establishment of multilingual 
communication capabilities in the Judiciary Branch including publication of documents
and reports;
(e)
development of a program for the gatheringrecompilation and
publication of data on court performance, public opinion surveys, and civic education
efforts;
(f) establishment of a public information center; and (g) carrying out of 
assessments to determine the impact on the users of the judicial system of the
modernization and communication programs undertaken by the Judiciary Branch
.
2.
Provide support to the Modernization Commission through the provision of 
continuing training and development support, including the preparation of an annual
report on modernization of the Judiciary Branch, exchange on international best
practices in judicial reform, and training in change management change.
3.
Strengthening of the PCU through the provision of technical assistance in 
specialized areas and themesermsmonitoingmonitoring such as management,
administration, infrastructure, human resources, information technology, indigenous
matters, anti
-corruption, for quality assurance of the Project and provision of 
training, financial and auditing systems, acquisition of equipment such as computers
and vehicles, and development of ongoing performance monitoring, evaluation and
implementation capabilities; all for the purpose of carrying out  effective
coordination internally and with other governmental institutions in the sector, and
also to support the dissemination of Judiciary Branch modernization strategy and
lessons learned in the process. 
4.
Strengthening of the PCU through the provision, as required for Project 
implementation, of long term technical assistance in specialized areas such as
institutional development, human resources, finance, procurement, monitoring and
evaluation and public affairs, and, other short-term technical support would be 
provided in specialized areas that could include administrative reform, indigenous
matters, anti
-corruption, and judicial statistics.
* * *
Page  13
The Project is expected to be completed by December
31,
2003.
SCHEDULE
3
Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in Dollars)*
February
15, 2004
700,000.00
August
15,
2004
720,000.00
February
15, 2005
740,000.00
August
15,
2005
765,000.00
February
15, 2006
785,000.00
August
15,
2006
810,000.00
February
15, 2007
835,000.00
August
15,
2007
860,000.00
February
15, 2008
885,000.00
August
15,
2008
910,000.00
February
15, 2009
935,000.00
August
15,
2009
965,000.00
February
15, 2010
990,000.00
August
15,
2010
1,020,000.00
February
15, 2011
1,050,000.00
August
15,
2011
1,080,000.00
February
15, 2012
1,115,000.00
August
15,
2012
1,145,000.00
February
15, 2013
1,180,000.00
August
15,
2013
1,215,000.00
February
15, 2014
1,250,000.00
August
15,
2014
1,285,000.00
February
15, 2015
1,325,000.00
August
15,
2015
1,365,000.00
February
15, 2016
1,405,000.00
August
15,
2016
1,445,000.00
February
15, 2017
1,490,000.00
August
15,
2017
1,530,000.00
February
15, 2018
1,575,000.00
August
15,
2018
1,625,000.00
___________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided
in Section
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE
4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I
of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
”
published by the
Bank in January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996
and September
1997
(the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
the Guidelines and paragraph
5
of Appendix
1
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of this Part B:
Page  14
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more but less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs
3.3
and
3.4
of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more but less than 
$1,500,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $3,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. (c)
Procurement 
of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out using standard bidding
documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than
$25,000
equivalent per contract or per bid
package, up to an aggregate amount of $100,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, , in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs
3.5
and
3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than
$150,000
equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation.
The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings, where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works (including technical services, when 
appropriate)
 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to each contract procured under Part B of this
Section.
(b)
With respect to the first three  two contracts to be awarded in each year 
of Project implementation under each Parts C.1 (a), C.1 (b), C.2 and C.3 of this 
Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any contractor, the Borrower shall 
provide to the
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
Page  15
procedures, the
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the
specifications and the draft
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix
1
to the
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants
’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September
1997
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-
and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services related to the organization of workshops and seminars and training in
informatics, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1 
and
3.6
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of $62,000,000],  shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  16
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
The contract shall be
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for such contracts shall be
subject to the Bank
’s prior approval.
SCHEDULE
5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” 
means Categories
(1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement in respect of the Project;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” 
means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means an amount equal to
$2,000,000
in
respect of the Special Account for the Project to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $1,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed an amount equal to $6,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph
4
of
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
of which replenishment is
requested.
On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
Page  17
have been
justified by said documents and other evidence
.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section
4.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section
6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02
of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures
.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
