                                                                                                             92437
Improving Access to Justice in Guatemala                                                                     April 24, 2006
Judicial Reform Project


Background                                                    President Wolfowitz visits the mobile
                                                              court - Apr. 28, 2006
The signing of the December 1996 Peace Accords                 Photos | Video
ended an era of 36 years of civil war in
Guatemala.  With these accords, a new consensus               President Wolfowitz visits Guatemala
                                                              Full coverage
emerged among civil society, the Government, the                
Supreme Court of Justice, and other justice
institutions that judicial reform is essential to post-
conflict reconstruction, social stability, and                              Video:   Access to Justice
                                                                           - Mobile Court in
economic growth. 
                                                                           Guatemala (4MB Windows
                                                                           Player)
The World Bank’s Judicial Reform Project supports                                                         
these aims.  Before the project was implemented,
                                                           
about 30 percent of the country had no judicial
branch presence. Today each municipality has at            
least one justice of the peace.
                                                           
Drawing lessons from Guatemala’s experience, the
Bank is now also implementing judicial reform              
projects in El Salvador, Honduras, and Mexico.
                                                           
Project objective
                                                           
To create an effective, accessible, and credible
justice system that applies laws consistently and          
fairly, and inspires public confidence.
                                                              Financing
Project design
                                                              Total cost : US$49.7 million
The project aims to:
                                                              IBRD loan amount: US$33 million
       Strengthen access to justice.
                                                              Implementation period: Expected April
       Strengthen the institutional capacity of the           1999 - December 2006
       Judicial Branch.
       Provide support to anti-corruption efforts.            Geographical area: the whole country
       Promote communication with the public on
                                                              Implementing agency: Supreme Court of
       justice sector reform.                                 Justice

Project activities                                            More details
Access to Justice:                                                Full project information & documents
                                                               
       177 Justice of the Peace courts have been
                                                           
       created and implemented.
       One regional and one departmental justice           
       center have been inaugurated, and a second
       regional center is in progress.                     
       Two mobile courts have been in operation
       since 2003. These specially equipped buses          
       provide free mediation, dispute resolution,
       and information services to people in remote
       areas. The service benefited over 6,000             
       people in its first year of operation, of which
       63 percent were women.                              
       Twenty-five mediation centers have opened
       and are providing mediation services in             
       indigenous languages.  Since 2001, more
                                                           
       than 22,000 disputants have sought
       mediation, of which almost half reached
      agreement.
      Justice sector workers are benefiting from
      cultural sensitivity training.
      Alternative dispute resolution centers have
      been annexed to the courts.

Organizational Effectiveness:

      Creation of new departments and training of
      personnel to perform four critical tasks:
      planning, human resources, administrative
      services, and financial management.               BUS - Mobile peace court in
                                                        Quetzaltenango.
Ethics, Professionalism and Gender Focus:

      The Judicial School is now equipped to
      provide training to judges, prosecutors, public
      defenders, and justice staff across the
      country.
      Anti-corruption training seminars are
      provided nationwide and are supported by a
      newly created Code of Ethics.
      Judges are now hired solely on the basis of
      competitive examinations.
      About 17 percent of judges are now women
      (and more than 50 percent of justices of the
      peace are women), compared with only 3
      percent at project initiation.
      For the first time in Guatemala’s history the
      President of the Supreme Court is a woman.

Social Communications and Citizen Outreach:  

      The Supreme Court is informing the public
      about the judicial reform process through
      educational materials and radio programs in
      Spanish and Mayan languages. 

Modernization of Criminal Records Offices:

      24 automated criminal record offices have
      been opened across the country, all of them
      connected via server to the database,
      permitting the same quality of service in all
      areas.  The process, which previously took
      an average of seven days to complete, now
      takes three minutes.
      The General Archive of Protocols office
      (Archivo General de Protocolos) has been
      automated and decentralized to two
      locations.  This has reduced registration time
      and increased revenues for the Judicial 
      Branch. 

Next steps: 

Judicial reform is a long-term process in a post-
conflict society. The project has succeeded in
showing incremental and sustainable improvements
that promote peace and advance access to justice.
However, continued efforts are needed to scale up
pilot programs, further promote civil society
partnerships with formal institutions, and address
criminal justice challenges that fall outside the
scope of this project.

 
April 2006
