Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19625-EAP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY IN THE
AMOUNT OF SDR 8 MILLION (US$11 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
MEKONG RIVER COMMISSION
FORA
WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
January 10, 2000
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - US Dollar (US$)
FISCAL YEAR
MRC: January I - December 31
I1BRD: July 1 - June 30
WE"[GHTS & MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Agreement       -    Agreement: on Cooperation for Sustainable Development of Mekong Basin
ADB             -    Asian Development EBank
ASEAN           -    Association of Southeast Asian Nations
AusAid          -    Australian International Development Agency
B3DP            -    Basin Development Plan
CAS             -    Country Assistance Strategy
DANIDA          -    Danish International Development Agency
GIS             -    Geographic Information System
JICA            -    Japan International Cooperation Agency
JC              -    Joint Comrnittee of MRC
LACI            -    Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOU             -    Memorandum of Understanding
MC              -    Mekong Committee
MRC             -    Mekong River Commission
rMRCS           -    MRC Secretariat
NMC             -    National Mekong Committee
IBR.D           -    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
PMR             -    Project Management Reports
I'IP            -    Project Implementation Plan
SOE             -    Statement of Expenditures
TOR             -    Terms of Reference
llNDP           -    United Nations Development Program
IJNEP           -    United Nations Environment Program
WUP                  Water Utilization Program
Vice President -  Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Regional Program Coordinator -  Bradley Babson, EAPVP
Country Director -  Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Director -  Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader -  Mei Xie, EASRD



Mekong River Commission
Water Utilization Project
Table of Contents
Page
A.  Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ..............................                              2
B. Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ....................................................                     2
2. GEF operational strategy /program  objective ............................................................                 3
3. Main sector issues and MRC  strategy .................................................................4
4. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...........................                            6
C. Project Description Summary ................................................................6
1. Project components ................................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought ....................................................                    7
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................................................                    8
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                            11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...................                      ......................  11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...   12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in project design ........................................................                  13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...............................................                          13
5. Value added of GEF/Bank support in this project .....................................................                     14
E. Summary Project Assessment ...............................................................                                    14
1. Economic ...............................................................                                                  14
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                 14
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                 15
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                             17
5. Social ...............................................................                                                    18
6. Environmental ..........                                                                                                   18
7. Participatory approach ............................................................                                       18
8. Procurement .............................................................                                                 19



Page
IF. Sustainability and Risks ...................................................................                                                                                    19
1. Sustainability ...................................................................                                                                                       19
2. Critical risks ...................................................................                                                                                       20
3. Possible controversial aspects ...................................................................                                                                       21
G. Main Grant Conditions ...................................................................                                                                                        21
1. Effectiveness ...................................................................                                                                                        21
2. Dated covenants ...................................................................                                                                                      21
11. Readiness for Implementation ..............................                                                          ......................................                     22
1. Compliance with Bank Policies ....................................................................                                                                               22
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .........................                                                                                                                           23
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description ..................................................................                                                                            26
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs ..................................................................                                                                                 42
Annex 4. Incremental Cost Analysi s ...........................                                                       .......................................                       43
Annex 5. Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management .....................................    51
Table A. Project Costs  by  Procuremnent Arrangements  ................................................................                                                       54
Table B. Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and Prior Review ...............................................    55
Table C. Allocation of Grant Proceeds ......................................................................                                                                  55
Annex 6. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .............................................................    56
Annex 7. Documents in Project File ..................................................................                                                                               57
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits .......................................................... ........                                                                          58
Annex 9. MRC Strategic Plan and Trans-boundary Diagnostic Analysis ...........................   66
Annex 10. Country at a Glance ..................................................................                                                                                     74
MIAPS
Project map: IBRD 30089



Mekong River Commission
Water Utilization Project
Project Appraisal Document
Global Environment Facility
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Date: January 10, 2000                     Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Mei Xie
Regional Program Coordinator:              Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey B. Fox
Mr. Bradley Babson
Country Director: Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Project ID:          Sector: Environment   Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
4E-PE-45864          /Natural Resources                             Development
Lending Instrument: GEF Grant              Program of Targeted   [ ] Yes  [x ] No
Intervention:
Project Financing Data          t 1    Loan      [   Credit       I  Guarantee  [x I GEF
Grant
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$): SDR 8 million (US$11.0 million equivalent) GEF Grant
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local            Foreign         Total
GEF Grant                                               5.7                  5.3         11.0
Co-Financing
Japan                                               0.0                  1.0          1.0
Finland                                             0.0                  1.2          1.2
France                                              0.0                  0.6          0.6
National Governments                                    1.2                  0.0          1.2
Mekong River Commission                                 1.3                  0.0          1.3
Total        8.2                  8.1         16.3
Recipient: Mekong River Commission (MRC)
Guarantor: n.a.
Responsible agency: Mekong River Commission Secretariat (MRCS)
Estimated disbursements              2000   2001    2002    2003    2004  2005   2006
(Bank FY/US$M):
Annual                   0.5    2.6      2.0      1.8     1.8  1.8    0.5
Cumulative                 0.5    3.1      5.1     6.9      8.7  10.5   11.0
(%)                    5%    28%      46%      63%      79%  95%   100%
Implementation Period: 7 years  Expected Effectiveness Date: 3/31/00 Expected Closing Date: 6/30/07



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective aid key performance indicators (Annex 1):
The Project would assist the member states of the Mekong River Commission (MRC):
Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam, to implement key elements of the 1995 Agreement on
Cooperation for Sustainable Development of Mekong Basin (Agreement). The Project's broad
development objectives would be to assist the MRC to establish mechanisms to promote and
improve coordinated and sustainable water management in the Basin, including reasonable and
equitable water utilization by the countries of the Basin and protection of the environment,
aquatic life and the ecological balance of the Basin. This would be achieved through preparation
of "Rules" for water utilization (quantity and quality) and procedures for information exchange,
notification/consultation in accordance with the Mekong Agreement. The Project would assist in
the formulation and implementation of the "Rules" by facilitating consultations among the MRC-
member states and helping the MRC develop, a Basin Simulation Model Package and Knowledge
Base. The Project would promote protection of sensitive ecological systems including wetlands,
flooded forests and the estuary system that support globally significant bio-diversity.
The Project duration is seven years, from 2000 to 2006, and key performance indicators
include (i) a functional, integrated and comlprehensive Basin modeling package by 2003; (ii) a
functional and integrated knowledge base on water and related resources, with a communication
system linking the National Mekong Committees (NMCs) with the MRC Secretariat (MRCS) by
2003; (iii) adoption of protocols for information exchange, water use monitoring, and preliminary
notification/consultation procedures by 2004; (iv) adoption of provisional in-stream flow "Rules"
by 2005; and (v) adoption of provisional water quality rules by 2006.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (Annex 1):
CAS document number: See below.   Date of latest CAS discussion: See below.
The Thailand CAS (R98-165, July 9, 1998; 16 June 1998) lists, as one of its key
development objectives, protection of natural resources and the environment, and proposes
improvement of natural resources management as a key action to meet this objective. The related
World Bank objectives include: (iF increasing efficiency of water use; (ii) improving watershed
protection through establishing a framework for watershed management; and (iii) establishing
clear policy and institutional fram[eworks. [n giving priority to rural development and natural
resources, the CAS indicates the B3ank's desire to take a strategic approach to its assistance in
these areas. To this end, the Bank has undertaken work with Government on a Rural
Development Strategy, which recommends that the management of natural resources be
improved, in order to ensure the sustainability of rural development, and highlights water as an
important natural resource, and recommends two key actions: increased and more participatory
management of watershed areas, as well as more integrated management of water supply and
demand. Lao PDR is rich in two natural resources of great interest to its dynamic neighbors:
timber and water resources, the latter is particularly important for hydropower generation, which
is one of the country's main assets, and offers significant potential for national socio-economic
development and regional integration. The Laos CAS (IDA/R99-151, April 20, 1998) aims to
support the sustainable development and management of natural resources including forests,
water resources and agricultural land. The GAS emphasizes the Lao PDR's need to preserve its
rich endowment of bio-diversity through the development and implementation of environmental
safeguard policy in the context of planned water resources development, especially hydropower.
The Vietnam CAS (IDA/R98-135: IFC/R98- 199, September 22, 1998) places great emphasis on
Bank's support for improving management of natural resources, of which water resources form



3
an important part. The Cambodia CAS (IDAIR97-8, February 20, 1997, highlights enhancing
rural development and natural resources management as one of the key CAS supported areas. It
states that effective management and protection of country's forest and other natural resources is
a priority on which the Bank places considerable emphasis in its assistance strategy. Bio-
diversity protection is also an area for support. The Mekong River Basin is also partially within
the territories of China and Myanmar, although they are not members of the MRC.
Considerations related to China and Myanmar are discussed in Sections B.3, C.2 and E.3.
In achieving the Bank's overall objective of poverty alleviation through sustainable
development of natural resources, the Bank supports global and regional initiatives that help
countries deal with trans-boundary issues, such as international waters. This is reflected in the
Bank's Water Resources Management Policy (1993) which directs the Bank to promote the
cooperative management of international water resources, when requested. The 1995 Mekong
Agreement among the four lower riparian countries reflects the goodwill of the MRC-member
states to cooperate in the sustainable development of the Basin, and to create a positive foreign
policy environment in the region. The Agreement sets a framework of riparian cooperation and
outlines general principles and procedures, organizational arrangements of MRC and scope of
authority. But the MRC still needs to make progress in implementing the provisions of the
Agreement to sustain the international goodwill of regional collaboration engendered by the
Agreement. This Project is in the nature of regional technical assistance to support the MRC and
its member states. Its outcome will contribute to natural resources protection and improved water
resources utilization and management in the basin, and thus is in line with the thrust of individual
country CASs in the MRC member countries, i.e. supporting sustainable natural resources
management.
2. GEF operational strategy/program objective:
Regional Cooperation in the Mekong. Regional cooperation in mainland Southeast
Asia has increased dramatically since the end of the Cold War and the cessation of the
Cambodian conflict in the early 1990s. Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos are now full members of
the ASEAN. There are currently a number of regional initiatives to promote economic integration
in the trade, transport and power sectors and through cultural exchanges in the basin. Some of
these initiatives are backed by international development agencies, such as UNDP, ASEAN, and
ADB (e.g., the Greater Mekong Sub-Region program). The GEF has selected several regions to
concentrate its International Water (IW) portfolio to maximize GEF's strategic impact. Two
areas are the Danube-Black Sea Basins, and the South China Sea region. In the latter region a
major regional project involving three of the four Mekong riparian countries (Thailand,
Cambodia, and Vietnam) is at an advance stage of preparation by llNEP. The Project would
support the participation of the MRCS and NMC WUP teams in the activities of the South China
Sea Inter-Governmental Steering Committee and the issue oriented Technical Committees being
established. The Project would also support the participation of the WUP management teams in
major regional meetings of GEF project teams in the other strategic regions and in the Global IW
meetings being planned by UNDP (Annex 2).
Cooperation among the lower Mekong countries began in 1957, with the establishment of
the "Committee for Coordination of Investigations of the Lower Mekong Basin." The Committee
conducted hydro-meteorological investigations and pre-investment studies which focused on a
cascade of large international reservoirs along the main river. In the aftermath of the Vietnam
War, the framework of cooperation was restructured to reflect the new geopolitical realities when
Cambodia became a "non-participating/active member" in 1976 (although it did not renounce the
earlier Mekong treaties). The other three countries established the "Interim Mekong Committee"
to keep the Mekong Committee's (MC) activities going until Cambodia would participate in



4
"reactivating" the MC. Following the Cambodian Peace Agreement in 1992, Cambodia
requested readmission to the MC. By the early 1990s, however, the mainstream reservoir cascade
no longer appeared tenable because of environmental and resettlement concerns. The framework
of coope:ration was restructured to include Caambodia and address the two most important issues:
dry season water sharing, and protection of the environment and ecological balance. In 1995, the
-our countries (Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam) of the lower Basin signed the
"Agreement on Cooperation for the Sustainable Development of the Mekong River Basin". The
Agreement, which establishes the MRC, recognizes the vital role that water resources play in
socio-economic development and the need to ensure that valuable natural resources are
developed and managed in a sustainable manner.
The Agreement includes provisions for MRC to formulate "Rules" for Water Utilization
and other "Rules". The term "Rules" is used in a general sense to refer to the obligations of the
M4RC-member states with respect to: (i) procedures for the notification and consultation of
proposed water uses under Article 5 of the Agreement; (ii) maintenance of flows on the
mlainstream of the Mekong River according to Article 6 of the Agreement. In particular, the
mnaintenance of dry season flows based upon an analysis of the natural flow regime; (iii) water
cluality criteria, rules, and measures for the protection of beneficial uses, including the aquatic
eco-system; (iv) procedures for monitoring water use and diversions in the Mekong Basin; and
(v) procedures for infornation exchange and monitoring.
Consistency with GEF Operational International Waters Program. The Project is
consistent with the policies and priorities of the GEF Waterbody-Based Operational Program
(OP#8). The Project would develop tools and the related knowledge base to enable the riparian
countries to gain a deeper understanding of the hydrologic linkages between the natural
environment, water utilization, and strategic transboundary water and environmental issues, and
to formulate and implement appropriate "Rules" to ensure reasonable and equitable water use.
These "Rules", and the corresponding regional mechanisms and procedures for their
implementation, provide the essential framework for preparing and agreeing on a regional
cevelopment plan and for the development oi compatible national plans and strategies. These
linkages will be strengthened under the Project by directly involving national stakeholders, the
respective NMCs and national institutions concerned with water and natural resource sectoT
policy and development, in the preparation of the "Rules" and the development of the related
tools and knowledge base. The Project thus addresses the key existing barriers to effective
cooperative action to adopt national policies anld strategies that are consistent with the protection
and enhancement of the globally significant natural resource base of the Basin.
3. Main sector issues and MRC strategy.
Main Sector Issues. The miajor sector issues concern the equitable sharing of the water
resources and sustainable development of the natural resources in the Basin. The most critical
factors are related to changes in the hydrology and d  season low in the lower Basin. Laos and
Cambodia rely heavily on river transport and the reduction of dry season flows could adversely
affect navigation. Cambodia has the long-term potential for increasing its irrigated agriculture.
Over the decades, Vietnam and Thailand have developed extensive irrigation systems that
currently face dry season water constraints. Seawater intrusion into the Mekong Delta during the
dry season adversely affects irrigation and domnestic water supplies. Vietnam is concerned with
dry season flows of the River because it needs flows to prevent seawater intrusion and for
iirigation purposes. Thailand has been studying options for diverting water from the Mekong, and
for inter-basin diversion of water froim Mekong tributaries.
Hydropower development throughout the Basin is gaining momentum, especially in
C;hina and Laos. Currently, there are 500 MW of installed capacity in the Lower Mekong and



5
1500 MW along the Chinese portion of the River. China is constructing several hydropower
schemes on the Mekong River. Laos has plans to construct a number of medium-sized
hydropower projects on Lao tributaries to the Mekong. Carefully planned hydropower
development can bring two positive regional impacts. First, both China and Laos would like to
export power to Thailand and options for creating a regional power grid are under study. Second,
hydropower schemes with substantial storage could increase the dry season flows by storing wet
season flows and releasing the water to generate power during the dry season. Increased dry
season flows would benefit the dry season water demand in the Lower Basin. Thus, how to share
the potential additional dry season flow would be of key interest to the lower riparians.
Hydropower development, however, also carries significant risk of upsetting the Basin's
ecological balance by changing the annual flow regime (i.e., decreasing wet season flows and
increasing dry season flows) and effecting important fish migration routes.
The Mekong Basin supports one of the most productive and diverse freshwater
ecosystems in the world. Freshwater and estuary capture fisheries constitute a major source of
protein and an important element of food security for the Basin's mainly poor and rural
population. Annual floods support a rich riparian habitat and an extensive network of wetlands.
For example, the estuaries in the Mekong Delta maintain important ecological processes such as
transport of nutrients, plankton, shrimp, fish larvae, and detritus-all essential components in the
aquatic food webs. Protecting the Basin's ecological balance would bring important global
benefits because of its significant bio-diversity, wetlands, flooded forests, and estuary (see
Annexes 4 and 9 for detailed analysis).
Water quality management has been a matter for considerable discussion among the
riparian countries of the Mekong Basin since the signing of the Mekong Agreement. Much of the
controversy stems from the lack of knowledge about water quality conditions and the dynamics
of water quality related to water and land use (industrial development including mining remains
relatively low throughout most of the basin), but it also stems from a lack of agreement on
individual and collective responsibilities. The MRC and several donors, including Swedish SIDA
have undertaken and are continuing to support programs to strengthen water quality monitoring
and assessment and hence to build the knowledge base. The water quality issue also includes the
Delta salinity management which depends not only on upstream water use and the outflow from
Ton Le Sap in the dry season, but also irrigation and drainage management by Vietnam in the
delta.
MRC Strategy. In June 1998, the MRC, with assistance from UNDP, prepared its first
"Strategic Plan (1999-2003)", which sets out visions, goals and strategies both for the Lower
Mekong Basin and for the MRC. The Strategic Plan recognizes the changing socio-economic
and financial environment in the region, and reviews the forces driving the changes in the
countries, donor community and global environment. It then, within the broad MRC mandate of
the Agreement, identifies five medium-term goals:
*  Establish the "Rules": this includes, inter alia, establishing minimum flows on the
Mekong River and the review of proposed water uses.
*  Formulate the Basin Development Plan: To be used as a general planning tool for
sustainable management and development of the Mekong Basin.
* Establish MRC environmental management policies and guidelines.
* Complete and evaluate on-going programs and projects.
* Improve the capacity of the MRC.



6
To achieve the goals, the Strategic Plan identifies four Key Result Areas (KRA) or "Core
Business Areas"---(i) Natural Resources Planning and Development; (ii) Environmental
Management and Social Considerations; (iii) Database and Information Systems; and (iv)
Organization Management and Cooperation. Specific strategies and performance indicators are
defined for each KRA, which drives the formulation of the MRC five-year indicative work plan
and the 1999 work program. The Strategic Plan and the priority programs were extensively
discussed with key stakeholders, including national line agencies. The MRC Council approved
the Strategic Plan and the work plan in October, 1998, which were then presented at and widely
supported by a Donor Consultative Group Meeting after the Council meeting.
4. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices:
The Project would support the MRC in achieving one of its five major medium-term
:,oals: establishing "Rules". It would directly address the key sector issues of water utilization
.nd ecological protection. It would provide the MRC with both the analytical tools for their
Water Utilization Program (WUP), and assistance in formulating and negotiating the "Rules"
'Section E.3). Both the indicative 5-year workc plan and the 1999 annual work program highlight
the WUP, together with Basin Development Plan (BDP) and the reshaping of the internal
management of the Secretariat, as the key programs to implement the MRC Strategy.
WUP has been adopted by the MRC Council as a permanent program to formulate,
:.mplement and adapt the "Rules". An important mandate of the MRC is to assist the riparian
member countries to develop the basic tools to implement the Agreement and to achieve
sustainable resources management in the basin. It is intended to be an umbrella program, under
which priority activities of the two MRC Subcommittees (Water Quantity; Water Quality) would
be implemented. WUP provides a foundation for BDP and MRC's resources investigation and
management programs. However, international water management is a long-term, dynamic and
often contentious process. The objective of the WLUP and the process of river basin management
will be evolutionary and may take a long time to mature.
BDP preparation has just started and will provide a basin-wide framework for sustainable
socio-economic development. BDP and the WUP will support each other, will be implemented in
parallel, and will be carefully coordinated. The timing of the two projects is seen to be mutually
beneficial. Several donors have conditioned their future financial support to the MRC on
demonstrated progress in these two key areas.
Establishing the WUP and formulating the BDP are mutually supporting exercises in
three ways: i) the BDP will use among others the databases and modeling tools developed by
WJUP; (ii) the "Rules", developed under WUP, particularly the dry season minimum flow
"Rules", will establish constraints on future water resource developments; and (iii) by analyzing
economic development strategies and water-related projects under different development
scenarios, the BDP will provide valuable information to the MRC when it reviews proposed
water uses under the notification "Rules" forrnulated under WUP.
This Project will mark the starting point for MRC's long term implementation of WUP.
While the Project has a 7-year span,, it should be seen as a first step along a long road, aiming to
provide an opportunity to bring the riparians together for meaningful dialogue on improved and
sustainable basin management. (see Section E,.3 for detailed technical issues).
C: Project Description Summary
Jr. Project comnponents (see Annex 2.for description and Annex 3 for cost):
The Project will consist of three components:



7
A)    Developing necessary analytical tools and a comprehensive basin simulation
package to support MRC's basin management decisions, determining, monitoring and
implementation of the "Rules" 1; and putting functional information sharing mechanisms in place.
B)    Drafting "Rules" to establish minimum flows in the Mekong River and define
water sharing, utilization and water quality rules; preparing detailed review and notification
procedures; and assisting in negotiations and consultation during formulation of the "Rules".
C)    Strengthening institutional (regional and national) capacity to implement the
"Rules", undertaking basin management functions, promoting participation of upper riparians,
coordination with donor agencies, supervision and monitoring of the implementation of the
Project, and financial and procurement management.
Project Component        Category   Cost   % of   GEF-   % GEF-
(US$M)  Total Financing  financing
A. Basin Modeling & Knowledge Base Institutional   9.9    61%  6.6    67%
B. Rules for Water Utilization  Institutional   1.3    8%    1.1      82%
C. Institutional Strengthening  Institutional   5.1    31%   3.3      65%
Total Project Cost                          16.3   100%     11.0      67%
The Project will take 7 years to complete. The implementation period is necessary
because the modeling, knowledge base development and rule making are long-term activities
which will require many iterations and a long process of consensus building. The project will
help the MRC formulate "Rules" by providing analytical tools, building technical capacity in the
MRC and the riparian states, facilitating consultations, and providing legal expertise. The terms
and conditions of the obligations incurred by the MRC-member states in adopting different types
of "Rules" will be explored during the course of consultations and with the support of
internationally-recognized water law expertise. Protection of the globally significant ecosystems
in the Mekong River Basin will be a key element in the development of the analytical tools and a
principal requirement in the rule making.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
At present, the MRCS is made up of individuals working on and financed by specific
projects that are usually donor-driven and donor-defined. There has been a lack of an overriding
coherent strategy and approach. The MRC's new Strategic Plan calls for a shift of MRC focus
away from managing specific projects to managing water and related natural resources in the
Basin, and away from basin development to basin management. In the past, the MRC and its
predecessor, the MC, have collected a huge amount of information on the Mekong Basin but
because of insufficient integration of data bases and expertise have been ill-equipped to use this
data for management purposes. The shift will drive the organizational development and reform
of the MRC and its Secretariat. The second challenge will be the shift away from donor-driven
project dynamics to MRC-driven program dynamics that is now discernibly in progress,
underlined by the Strategic Plan. Both the content and implementation process of the Project will
be at the heart of support for these shifts. To do so, it would provide the MRC with analytical
IFor the definition of 'Rules', see Section E.3.



8
tools to assist information processing, sharing and informed decision-making, and will put in
place necessary institutional measures for managing the basin's water and related resources. The
P:roject will be implemented and managed by the MRC and NMCs, with assistance incorporating
international experience.
The Project will encourage the participation of upper riparians, China and Myanmar, in
MRC political dialogue and in Project technical activities relating to basin modeling and
management issues. Currently, China and Myanmar are not signatories to the 1995 Mekong
Agreement, but official MRC dialogue partners. Planned hydropower reservoirs in China will
findamentally alter the dry season flow regime in the Mekong River and may also have a
s:ignificant impact on wet season flows (Section E.3). Incorporation of Chinese activities into
MIRC management activities is important for the long-term success of the MRC.
The "Rules" will provide a critically needed regional framework for the preparation of
national plans and strategies that are consistent with the principles agreed by the riparian
countries in the Mekong Agreement. By directly involving the NMCs, and the respective line
agencies responsible for sector plans and policies, in the development of basin analytical tools,
building the basin knowledge base, and in the formulation of the "Rules", the Project will create
the enabling environment for policy reform and action at the national level essential to achieving
the regional goal of sustainable development of the natural resources of the Mekong Basin.
3. Benefits and target population.
The target population will be those living within the Mekong River Basin or utilizing
their waters. The Project would benefit the populations in the Basin, as well as in the riparian
countries that depend heavily on the Mekong basin's natural resources to sustain their socio-
economic development. It would benefit the basin's ecosystems. These benefits would result
eventually from the implementation of the "Rules" and procedures for water utilization and the
improved understanding of the river system through the models and analytical tools. The Project
will also benefit the whole region in terms of facilitating greater political cooperation and
dialogue. Donor community and other interest groups would gain indirect benefits from a more
effective and coordinated use of their funds and assistance.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements.:
The Mekong River Commission. The MRC is an inter-governmental organization of the
four lower Mekong Basin states: Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam. The MRC is
cc mposed of three permanent bodies:
. The Council, which is composed of one member from each state at the Ministerial and
Cabinet level who is empowered to make policy decisions on behalf of his/her government.
* The Joint Committee (JC), which is composed of one member from each state at no less than
the Head of Department level and acts as the management body for the MRC and implements
the policies and decisions of the C'ouncil.
* The Secretariat (MRCS), which renders teclnical and administrative services to the Council
and JC, and is under the supervision of the JC. The MRCS is located in Phnom Penh and has
a staff of approximately 100, including both international and riparian staff.
The JC has established sub-committees to help it address two high-priority MRC
activities: Basin Development Plan and Water Utilization. There are two water utilization sub-
committees: Water Quantity Sub-Committee and Water Quality Sub-Committee. The MRCS
renders technical and administrative services to the sub-committees.



9
The MRC has an annual budget of approximately $12-$15 million per year, which can be
divided into two parts: administrative costs ($2-3 million), and program/project costs ($10-12
million). Multilateral and bilateral donor agencies provide grant financing for almost all of the
MRC's program/project costs. Administrative costs are funded from contributions by MRC-
member countries ($175,000 per country in 1997), donor grants, an 8% surcharge on donor-
funded projects, and treasury management.
National Mekong Committees: Each MRC-member country has a NMC that formnulates
national policies vis-a-vis the MRC, and provides coordination between national line agencies
and MRC projects. A typical MRC project involves the MRCS technical staff, national line
agencies, and international consultants. Although the structure of the NMCs varies by country,
the general arrangement is to have three bodies: (i) an inter-ministerial policy-making body; (ii) a
management group consisting of key governmental departments; and (iii) a secretariat to support
the NMC.
Implementing Agency. MRC, through its Secretariat, will be the implementing agency
for the Project. The Grant Agreement will be negotiated with MRCS which will be responsible
for project management, including financial and procurement management. MRCS will: (a)
undertake procurement duties, including: (i) contracting consultant services, (ii) purchasing office
and communication equipment, and (iii) purchasing computers, software, and related equipment;
(b) maintain and report adequate financial records, facilitate audits and manage special account
and disbursements; (c) monitor and evaluate project implementation; and (d) prepare and submit
to the Bank semi-annual reports including detailed work plans. The details are found in PIP and
its Annex H.
WUP Management Team. The MRC will create a permanent WUP Management Team
to lead and coordinate the WUP. The Team, directed by the CEO of MRCS, will consist of the
MRCS's WUP Unit and the heads of NMC WTUP Units.
MRCS WUP Unit. The MRCS will create its permanent WUP Unit directly under the
Chief Executive Officer. The Unit will consist of four highly-qualified specialists, acceptable to
the Bank, one from each MRC member country selected by the MRCS on a competitive basis.
The Unit will have a leader and three members who are heads of three working groups (see
below), and required riparian support staff. It will be supported by a small team of consultants.
Indicative TORs for the leader and key consultants are included in PIP Annex H.
National WUP Units. Each NMC will establish a permanent WUP Unit composed of
high caliber technical staff from the NMC Secretariat and seconded by key line agencies. The
national Units will have day-to-day responsibility for coordination of national participation,
review of short-lists of technical specialists to be selected by the MRCS for the MRCS WUP Unit
and working groups. National WUP Units will facilitate and support the participation of line
agency technical specialists in the WUP implementation, and carry out agreed technical and
administrative tasks. The relationship between the NMC's WUP Units and the MRCS will be
formalized in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed between the JC and the MRCS.
WUP Working Groups. The WUP management team will organize and supervise three
"Working Groups"--(i) Basin Modeling and Knowledge Base; (ii) Environmental and Trans-
boundary Analysis; and (iii) Rule Formulation. WUP management team will draft Terms of
Reference (TOR) for the working groups. The working groups will carry out WUP activities.
They will also support the BDP program through sharing and exchanging data, inforrnation,
modeling tools and results. They will consist of full and part time staff from the MRCS divisions,
NMCs and their line agencies, and of local and international consultants. The national staff will
be selected by the National WUP Units. The national staff and the MRCS staff will form an



10
integrated team with a joint TORs and work plan. The actual work will take place both within the
countries and at the MRCS' headquarters office.
Donor coordination and parallel co-financing. Several donors have expressed interest
in funding part of the WUP, and each has its own agenda, schedule and internal arrangements for
implementation. The governments of Japan, Finland, and France have made varying degrees of
commitments to support the WUJP. Finland confirmed its support for the definition and screening
of modeling and data requirements and for the sub-modeling of the Tonle Sap sub-basin (Section
II). France has an interest in supporting WUP water quality related activities and has made fund
disbursement to MRCS. Japan is primarily interested in supporting the hydrological analysis
component and the filling of data gaps in WUIP. During appraisal, preliminary scopes of work by
each donor were outlined as part of PIP Annex L to better define these activities and their
interrelationship with the GEF supported VTUP components.
Partnership with UNDP. tJNDP has been involved in MRC development since its pre-
inception. UNDP provided key support in the negotiations the 1995 Mekong Agreement, and
recently in the development of the MRC's first "Strategic Plan (1999-2003)" (Section B.3). MRC
has recently approved a UJNDP program to support the implementation of the Strategic Plan
through capacity building of MRCS, NMCs and national line agencies. This program will be
critically important for the long-term success of MRC and V/UP. While the UNDP program will
focus on improving overall MRC management, the WUP Project will focus on strengthening the
technical capabilities of MRCS, NM\Cs and the national line agencies to manage the water
resources of the basin through the development of analytical tools and the adoption of "Rules".
These programs are complimentary and mutually necessary. During Project implementation, the
Bank will work closely with UNDP, exchange information, and draw support from their
experience and programs to ensure Project success.
Accounting Financial Reporting and Auditing. During Project preparation, an
assessment of financial management was carried out and found that the current accounting
system in MRCS is capable of handling the GEF funds and providing separate reports on fund
utilization. MRCS prepared a financial manual (July 1999) to set out policies and procedures
under this Project for budgeting, fund utilization, accounting and reporting of donor funds
entrusted to MRCS. It has agreed to maintain separate books of accounts to record and report for
expenditures financed under the Project, and to the quarterly reports to be consistent with the
formats of Monitoring Reports (PMR) described in the Bank's LACI Handbook. A Special
Account will be set up under the Project for the GEF grant in a commercial bank acceptable to
the Bank and will be managed by MRCS. The Statement of Expenditures (SOE) disbursement
method is recommended at this stage. The Bank and MRCS will review the disbursement
methodology by December 31, 2000 when a determination could be made to switch to PMR-
based disbursement (Section E.4).
MRC will prepare annual financial statements in accordance with international standards
for accounting and will include, alt a minimum, Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds
Statement, a Project Balance Sheet at the year end, and comparative figures from the previous
year and notes to the financial staternents. It will install a computerized accounting system by
June 30, 2000. The project accounts, the operations of the Special Account and the amounts
withdrawn under SOE will be audited annually in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing by independent auditors. The audited financial statements together with audit reports
will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the MRC's fiscal year. The
independent auditors on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank will be appointed before
Project effectiveness (Section G.l(a)).



11
Monitoring and evaluation. MRCS will monitor and evaluate: (a) the progress of
Project implementation; (b) the achievement of Project objectives; and (c) the compliance with
legal covenants. Indicators to assess the project achievements and impact have been agreed with
MRCS and included in the PIP (covenants d-h), which will be followed and updated as needed
during implementation. MRCS will set up by June 30, 2000 a monitoring system using proper
project management software to track physical progress, costs, budgets, procurement and
disbursement, and key performance indicators (covenant-b). The results will be reflected in the
quarterly PMR to be prepared by the WUP management team. Bank supervision missions will
review project progress and results at mid-term review (mid-2003, covenant-c) and at completion
(end of 2006). Semi-annual reports will be submitted for Bank review (covenant-a). A project
completion report will be prepared within six months after the grant closes (covenant-i).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In general terms, activities required to achieve the long-term goal of MRC include: inter
alia, (1) inventory and assessment of water and environmental resources; (2) inventory and
assessment of existing and potential water uses and discharges; (3) identification, evaluation and
determination of requirements for preservation of wetlands, fisheries, watersheds and other
ecological resources; (4) development of integrated geographically referenced databases and
computer systems/networks; (5) putting in place appropriate institutional and legal frameworks,
and policies and procedures for water resources management; (6) development and calibration of
hydrologic, environmental and decision support models and using them to evaluate different
structural and non-structural development and management alternatives, water utilization "Rules"
relating to both quality and quantity, and scenarios for the operation of hydraulic infrastructure;
(7) definition, adoption and implementation of "Rules" for water utilization and discharge in
terms of both quantity and quality; (8) development of basin management and development
plans; and (9) improving the capacity of MRC, NMCs and the line national agencies to carry-out,
maintain and update the above activities through training and technical assistance.
Initially, the Project concept considered inclusion of improving the hydrological network
monitoring, data collection and database! GIS building. But it later became apparent that the
above activity areas (1) - (4) have been relatively well-supported by various donors, and most of
MRC's programs completed or on-going are in the nature of collecting data or inventorizing
basin resources (Section D.2). Consequently, the Project concept was reshaped to support only
key activities that are not being adequately addressed so far, such as the activity areas (5) - (7).
The Project would focus on the formulation and implementation of "Rules", to allow GEF
resources to be concentrated on a single priority activity and to minimize conflict with activities
supported by other donors. However, a detailed review of the adequacy (data quality, interval,
format, integration) of the databases would be carried out during Project implementation and the
Project would make provision to fill any data gaps to support the basin modeling (Annex 2).
Early in 1996, the Bank also explored the use of GEF funds to support the BDP efforts.
But several other donor agencies also expressed their interest in supporting the BDP, and GEF
funds did not appear to be essential. Rather, it became clear to both the MRC and the Bank that
supporting the WUP as a parallel or even preceding activity to BDP is critical. It was also
recognized that the MRC does not have appropriate analytical and modeling tools to support
either the BDP or WUP. Thus, the BDP concept was dropped and the basin modeling was added
to the Project design.



12
The Project initially was conceived to include only water quantity issues. However, given
the close integration with the water quality aspect, it now includes both quantity and quality
aspects in basin modeling and formulation of 'Rules".
2. Major related Projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
The Bank or GEF does not have any regional project dealing with MRC. But many other
donors have been funding MRC's activities, mostly bilateral aid programs that in some cases
involve more than one MRC country. Those providing key assistance to MRC include UNDP
(strategy; institutional capacity); [)enmark (fishery; wetlands); Switzerland (watersheds; GIS);
Sweden and UNEP (water quality monitoring; groundwater investigations); ADB (transport;
power; wetlands; GIS); UNEP (GIS; water quality monitoring; environmental assessment); Japan
(institutional capacity; hydrological monitoring); Australia (institutional capacity; hydro-
meteorology); Finland (hydrographic surveys) and Germany (forest management).
A large portion of MRC's past and on-going programs relate to resources inventory,
surveys and database /GIS building in hydrc-meteorology, hydrographic atlas, water quality,
fisheries, forest cover, and wetlands. There are some modeling programs on salinity, groundwater
and flood planning, and programs relating tc environment management, environmental impact
assessment, watershed management, and soil erosion and sedimentation.
Donor        Sector                              Projects                          Timeframe
I1.    Natiural Resources Planning and Development
UNDP          Plan      Mekong Delta Master Plan                                      90-93
Denmark       Fishery    Asse ssment of Mekong Fisheries & Impact of WRM               97-01
Denmark       Fishery    Support for Fishery Management                                97-99
Denmark       Fishery    Management of Reservoir Fishery                               95-99
Denmark       Fishery    Extension for Acquaculture in the Mekong Delta                98-00
Switzerland    Watshds   Strategy study for dev. of watershed management/ forestry sector  98-99
Netherlands     Agri.    Sustainable Irrigated Agriculture Project Consolidation        97-99
Germany       Resour.   Sustainable management of resources in the lower Mekong Basin  97-01
Korea        Flood     Flood Control Planning for the Development of the Mekong Delta    97-00
France/      Resour.   Natural Resources based development strategy for Tonle Sap area
UNDP
2.      Environment Management/Social Considerations
Switzerland    Watshds   Watershed classification in the lower Mekong Basin             92-99
Germany        Forest    Assessment and nmonitoring of Mekong forest cover             93-99
UK           Env.     Pilot Study of Water Resources & Environmental Management      98-99
Denmark        Env.      Environmental Policy and Guidelines                           98-00
UNEP          EIA       Envi;ronment Assessment in the Greater Mekong Region (1-rI)
Sweden        Wtld      Envl, Mgmt of Plain of Reeds (VN) & Flood Plains (Cambodia)   93-98
3.      Database and Iniormation Systems
Denmark        Wetld    Inventory and management of the Cambodian wetlands, Phase 1    97-99
Finland        Map      Updating Hydrographic Atlas; Surveys; Mapping                 96-99
Sweden    Ground-water Groundwater Investigation - Phase I
Sweden         ..       Groundwater Investigation - Phase II                           97-99
Netherlands               Groundwater modeling in the Mekong Delta                      98-00
Japan        Monit.   Improvement of H.ydro-meteorological Network - Component I
Australia     Monit.   Improvement of Hydro-meteorological Network - Component II      97-00
Sweden,unep      Qlty     Water quality/acidity monitoring in Mekong Delta (1)           87-95
Sweden         Qlty     Water Quality/acidity monitoring in Mekong Delta (II)          95-98



13
ADB        GIS    Geographical Information Systems                     Nt
Swiss              Geographic Information System
UNEPG        .     Geographic Information System
G RIC_ _               _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _   _
4.    Organization Management and Cooperation
UNDP    Institution. Strategic Planning and Capacity Building         98-01
Sweden   Institution. CTF for studies, training                        96-99
Denmark   Institution. CTF for Capacity Building                       97-00
AusAid   Institution. MRC Cooperation                                  97-99
3. Lessons learned and reflected in Project design:
Negotiations for the 1995 Mekong Agreement were difficult and time-consuming, and
UNDP negotiation assistance was necessary for the parties to reach consensus on a new
framework of cooperation. Early attempts in 1996 by the MRC to formulate subsidiary
agreements demonstrated that the process of defining and agreeing upon "Rules" for water
utilization will be long and require a concerted sustained effort founded upon good technical
inforrnation and utilizing an iterative consultative approach. The Project design takes these
lessons into account.
The BDP preparation process, supported by UNDP, Sweden and Danida, provided some
lessons. Its progress has been slow and produced less than expected results. The phasing of
project preparation and implementation has been adopted as an approach that allows for
designing and implementing well thought out steps a building on the experience gained as the
project progresses. BDP project preparation has taken a two-phase approach.  Phase-I:
formulation of project concept and consultations on MRC and country consensus (Section E.7).
Phase-2: formulation of detailed project components.
Another lesson was to avoid duplication and to enhance coordination among MRC
programs (Sections D.1, D.2). MRC has already set up five major databases: (1) Wetlands
(wetland surveys in each country), (2) Fisheries (one of the biggest databases in MRC, containing
information on sustainable catch and basic statistical data), (3) Socio-economic, (4) Land use
(forest covers and agricultural use), and (5) GIS mapping. It also has three on-going monitoring
programs on hydrology, water quality and groundwater. These databases and information
systems were reviewed and found sufficient enough to start developing a basin-wide knowledge
base and modeling package. During implementation, the modeling effort should link the different
MRC programs together and identify areas where further data collection is necessary to support
management decisions.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Project proposal was first presented to the Bank by MRC in 1996. After obtaining
the GEF project preparation grant, MRC assigned a task force and internal resources in MRCS
which managed the grant, designed TORs, procured and supervised the consultants' team. The
consultants' work was completed in December 1998. In collaboration with theNMCs, national
line agencies and GEF focal points of the riparian states (Section E.7), the MRCS task force
prepared a WUP Project concept proposal for GEF financing. The proposal was approved by the
JC in September 1998 and by the MRC Council in October 1998, both of which highlighted this
Project among the MRC priority programs in the 5-year work plan and in the 1999 work program
(Section B.3). The draft PIP, including the MRC Business Finance Plan (PIP Annex K) was
approved by the JC in July 1999 and by the Council in October 1999.



14
5. Value added of GEE and Bank support in this Project:
Promote regional cooperation and consultation.  The process of formulation of
'Rules" will be not only technically challenging but politically sensitive, and will involve many
parties. GEF support would promote and facilitate extensive consultations among the member
countries during the sensitive negotiations process, contribute to awareness and reaching
consensus on basin management issues among interested parties in and outside the region, and
provide value added to regional cooperation thlat ensures the conservation of globally significant
environmental resources.
Play catalyst role. There is no shortage of donor interest in supporting the MRC. But
an increasing concern from the donor community has been the lack of coherence and
coordination among various MRC and donor supported programs. Often these programs have
been conducted independently with practically no common interface, or audit of desired
outcomes. Donors also have priorities that differ from MRC. Donor funds are sometimes not
inanaged directly by MRC, and coime in the form of visiting experts from donor countries, or
studies carried out by donor teams. In mid-]996, MRC efforts to independently negotiate the
"Rules" ran into difficulties due to a dispute over how to address water quality issues. During
dialogue with donors, MRC and several donor agencies expressed their wish to see the Bank take
play a role in regard to these sensitive water-sharing issues, due to the Bank's technical
competence and experience with complex international water management issues. MRC has
Nvelcomed Bank/GEF involvement in the Project, as it has been seen as playing a catalyst role in
coordinating MRC programs, various stakeholders and donors, and providing funds to be
Tranaged and implemented directly by MRC.
Provide technical expertise. The Project is complex as there are a number of issues
tLnder debate among the riparian countries, including integration of water quality and quantity,
establishment of low-flow requirements and subsequently determining the minimum flows,
utilization of surplus waters, and monitoring and procedures for notification and consultation on
proposed development schemes. Bank technical contributions and devolution of responsibility for
P'roject preparation, monitoring, evaluation an(I supervision would add value to MRC's capacity
building. The Bank/GEF has extensive experience in dealing with international waters in Central
Asia, South Asia, North and Southern Africa and Eastern Europe. Lessons and expertise can be
drawn to help dealing with these issues. In particular, the Project will support and facilitate
linkages and collaboration with other GEE international waters programs.
Facilitate dialogue with riparian. Unlike other donors, such as UNDP, DANIDA, Japan
or ADB, the Bank has so far played low key with MRC in Mekong regional activities. Given the
significance of the Mekong Basin in the region, the regional financial situation and the Bank's
long term interest in the region, the Project would provide an opportunity for promoting regional
cooperation and help identify investment opportunities that are sustainable in the long run.
E,: Issues Requiring Special Attention
1. Economic
[ ] Summarize issues              [ To be defined                  [x] None
Per GEF's requirement, a project specific analysis on GEF incremental costs was carried out by
the project task team, and the results are included in Annex 4.
2. Financial
[J]Summarize issues below         []To be defined                   [x] None



15
3. Technical
Basin Modeling and Knowledge Base (Project Component A). For MRC to become a
fully functioning international river basin agency responsible for sustainable management of
water and other natural resources in the Mekong River Basin and with good interaction and
coordination between the member states, it needs to be equipped with a unified system of basin
models, planning and decision-making tools to enable it to undertake the formulation of "Rules"
on sound scientific basis and to fulfill its functions for basin management in the long run. MRCS
has had a number of modeling studies. However, those models have not resulted in a
comprehensive basin simulation model package, as they were developed separately and often
concerned with sub-sectoral issues (such as hydropower planning, hydrology, flood control, or
salinity intrusion simulation). They have been carried out as individual attempts which do not
have a strong focus on the basin planning and management functions of MRC. Thus, there has
been little incentive to keep them operational as they have not created permanent modeling
capacity in MRCS or the riparian states to apply and update the models.
Implementing the operational provisions of the Agreement requires the development and
operation of an integrated and comprehensive hydrological/hydraulic and water quality modeling
package for the mainstream and tributaries of the entire basin. To do so, one needs to understand
the interaction between the physical, ecological and biological features of the basin, their changes
due to human activities, and trans-boundary concerns. Some important concerns (Annex 9)
related to water use in the Basin include navigation, water use, sediment transport and
sedimentation, pollution, migratory birds and fish, flood plains and wetlands, and changes in the
yearly flow regime. Under the proposed Project, water quality modeling will be fully integrated
into the basin modeling package under a program supported by the French. This activity will be
initiated with a thorough assessment of water quality and the mid-term and long-term threats to
water quality, an analysis of alternative phased programs under the MRC to address these threats,
and the development of suitable basin model components to facilitate integrated water quantity
and quality analysis as a part of rules development. The MRC WUP Management Team will
closely coordinate GEF project activities with those to be supported by the French and those
currently supported by SIDA and other donors, to insure that the knowledge base and the basin
modeling package can adequately deal with water quantity and quality issues.
The knowledge base and modeling and analytical tools to be developed under the Project
should have the following objectives:  (i) develop the basin modeling package for
operationalizing of the Mekong Agreement, testing and monitoring of the "Rules", and
supporting basin planning and management decision-making; (ii) provide an analytical tool to
integrate the basin planning and management processes, and to assess environmental and socio-
economic impacts of development options; (iii) create sustainable modeling capability within the
riparian countries (including the NMCs and line agencies) and MRCS; and (iv) identify data gaps
of water resources monitoring and MRC information systems and give feedback for possible
adjustments to these programs (Section D.2). Thus, the Project needs to carefully evaluate
available models (both in MRCS and internationally) to determine their suitability and
adaptability for the whole basin. The process and criteria to evaluate and select appropriate basin
models need to be defined and agreed during the early stage of Project implementation.
China's Critical Role. China's average annual contribution to the Mekong River flow is
about 76 billion m3, accounting for 16% of the Mekong River's average annual flow of 475
billion m3. Although details of China's future hydropower program on the Mekong River are
sketchy, the MRC's 1997 "Mekong River Basin Diagnostic Study" estimates that the current
Chinese reservoir storage capacity of 1 billion m3 could increase to almost 20 billion m3 in the
next few decades, with an ultimate storage capacity approaching 40 billion m3. The pace and



16
extent of Chinese hydropower development is uncertain. Chinese consumptive water demands in
'he Mekong Basin are very low, due to unsuitability of the land for irrigated agriculture. Hence,
Chinese water resources development may alter the flow pattem of the Mekong River, but will
probably not have a significant impact on total annual flows. Myanmar contributes only 2% of
the Mekong River's annual flow, and has no significant plans to develop its water resources in
the Mekong Basin.
In the rmedium term, and with the construction of Xiaowan reservoir (about 14 billion
In3), total storage in the Chinese portion of the Basin could reach about 20 billion m3. Under this
ccenario, sources indicate that Chinese reservoirs could regulate approximately 25% of the
Chinese portion of Mekong River flows and 5% of the total annual flow. Some researches
indicate that dry season flows near Vientiane, Laos could increase by 50% and into the Mekong
I)elta by 20%, although the downstream impacts of the future Chinese reservoirs have not been
authoritatively quantified and would depend on reservoir operations. Under normal operations,
the decrease in wet season flows in Mekong River might be on the order of 10% at the Chinese
border, with a progressive decrease as the Mekong River flows downstream. Under non-normnal
cperating conditions, for example during reservoir filling or extreme flood events, Chinese
reservoirs could have larger, transitory, impacts on both wet and dry season flows.
Water utilization in the lower Mekong will not only include that of the existinig and fully
utilized low flows, but also any incremental flows created by China. The data bases and
modeling studies used in the BDP and in WTJP will need to cover the entire basin including
C'hina and evaluate the impact of' different upstream development scenarios on the basin
development planning and on the for-mulation and adoption of "Rules". In addition, the "Rules"
and their implementation will have to be adapted to changing future conditions as development
unfolds, underscoring the importance of creatinig the necessary human and institutional capacity
itt MRC. NMRC officials are keen on having Chlina and Myanmar participate in the drafting and
irplementation of the "Rules". The Chinese and Myanmar govermnents are not adverse to
working with the MRC. The Project design would encourage further collaboration.
China and Myanmar are currently offiicial dialogue partners with the MRC, providing
them an opportunity to participate in discussions at MRC Council and Joint Committee meetings.
Ir. 1996, the MRC, China and Myarnmar agreed to consider establishing technical working groups
on hydrology and navigation. A legal agreement on navigation between China, Thailand, Laos
ard Myanmar on the upper Mekong River is in the final stages of negotiations. MRC officials
periodically undertake missions to Yunnan province in China for discussion on water-related
matters. The MRC is committed to information exchange and technical collaboration with China,
and the Project includes dedicated funds for upper riparian collaboration on WJUP-related
telhnical matters and meetings. The MRC will use these funds as appropriate, and when China or
Myanmar indicate a willingness to participate in WUP.
Development of the Rules for Water IJtilization. The term "Rules" is used in a general
sense to refer to the obligations of the: MRC-member states with respect to Articles 5 and 6 of the
Agreement. Article 5 contains the ge.neral principle of "reasonable and equitable utilization" of
the waters of the Mekong system, and outlines the conditions for notification, consultation, and
agreement on proposed water uses. Article 6 calls for the maintenance of flows on the
mainstream with respect to i) natural dry season flows, ii) wet season flows sufficient to enable
the acceptable natural reverse flow of the Tonle Sap, and iii) peak flood flows. Article 26
mandates the Joint Committee to prepare "Rules for Water Utilization and Inter-Basin
Diversions" pursuant to Articles 5 and 6. In order to implement Articles 5 and 6, and adhere to
the principles of Article 3: "Protection of the Environment and Ecological Balance," and Article
7: "Prevention and Cessation of Harrnful Effects," additional "Rules" on water use monitoring,
inilormation and data exchange procedures, and water quality are needed. In summary, "Rules"



17
for water utilization anticipated to be formulated under the Project are: (i) Physical "Rules" with
regard to maintenance of flows on the mainstream; and water quality. (ii) Procedural "Rules"
with regard to information exchange; monitoring water use and diversions in the Mekong Basin;
and notification and consultation on proposed water use.
The drafting of "Rules for Water Utilization" will be a multi-faceted, long-term process
that requires extensive consultations, negotiation assistance, and solid scientific analysis. The
terms and conditions of the obligations incurred by the MRC-member states in adopting different
types of "Rules" will be explored during the course of consultations. A structured and facilitated
consultation process with the Sub-Committee(s) for Water Utilization (Quantity and Quality) is
envisioned. Three to four consultations per year, starting in mid-2000 and lasting until 2006, are
expected. The WUP management team, in conjunction with facilitators and legal experts, and
appropriate WUP working groups, will assist the Sub-Committees in drafting water utilization
"Rules". The Sub-Committees will formulate draft "Rules" for the consideration of the MRC
Joint Committee, which then makes recommendations to the MRC Council. The MRC Council
members are entitled to make policy decisions on behalf of their respective governments (Article
15 of the Mekong Agreement) and thus the terms and conditions of the water utilization "Rules"
adopted by the Council are considered binding by the MRC-member states.
The MRC places a high priority on drafting a coherent and integrated set of water
utilization "Rules" in an expeditious, yet scientifically sound manner. The strategy pursued in the
Project is to facilitate and support a flexible, yet structured process in formulating the "Rules" for
water utilization. Moreover, in a manner consistent with the principle of adaptive management,
and in light of the prevailing uncertainties in some key data, the "Rules" will be adopted on an
interim basis, subject to review and revision according to the conditions promulgated by the
MRC.
4. Institutional
Basin Management Capacity. Although MRC and MRCS have had experience in
managing many programs and projects financed by donors, there have been increasing concerns,
both from the countries and from the donor community, about the lack of clear vision and
strategy in the MRC's work programs and weak organizations and management of the MRCS.
UNDP recently helped the MRC develop a Strategic Plan (Stage 1) and is starting a program to
boost MRC capacity (Stage 2). At the 1998 Donor Consultative Group Meeting, many donors
expressed the view that the next few years will be critical for the MRC testing whether it can
successfully implement the principles in the Mekong Agreement. The MRC Council recognizes
these problems and has vowed to improve its effectiveness, improve accountability, transparency
and efficiency, and to define clear technical, financial and administrative roles. The Project will
support the MRC reform (Section C.2).
NMCs Capacity. The MRC's Strategic Plan calls for a greater integration with NMCs
and their national agencies. The capacity and role of NMC vary greatly between the countries.
Vietnam seems strongest. Thailand would need to strengthen its own capacity, now that the
MRCS has moved to Cambodia. Laos and Cambodia still lack sufficient technically capacity.
Strengthening of NMCs under the Project should be tailored to the different situations.
Financial Management Capacity. Since MRC/MRCS manages numerous donor funds,
it is regularly audited. The 1997 PriceWaterhouse's Audit Report showed that MRCS's
accounting records and procedures were in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. The Project funds primarily technical assistance and training which are subject to
simple procurement procedures. To ascertain that the financial management system complies
with  the requirements  of OP/BP  10.02, an  assessment was carried  out by  the



18
PriceWaterhouseCoopers, in March 1999, of the accounting, financial reporting and auditing
arrangements at MRCS. Based on the assessmtent (Annex 5), a well organized financial function
with qualified staff exists at MRCS, and its accounting system is capable of separately reporting
on different donor funded activities. Given MRCS' long experience in dealing with donor
iunded activities, the Project should have been eligible for PMR-based disbursement. However,
as the current accounting system is tlot Y2K compliant, there is a risk that MRCS may not be able
l:o prepare tiniely reports until the new system that is being developed is fully installed, tested and
operational. Therefore, disbursement based on SOE is recommended at this stage, and PMR-
based disbursement will be considered by the end of 2000 (Section C.4). Moreover, a monitoring
and evaluation system would be set up under the Project (Section C.4). Project management
software programs (for example, Microsoft Project) would be introduced to enhance the capacity
of the NMCs and MRCS in Project implementation and coordination.
'. Social:Social aspects relate to ensuring stakeholder participation and including socio-economic
dlata and analyses in modeling and rule making processes (Section E.7 and Annex 2,A.3).
ti. Environmental
a. Environmental issues:
r I Summarize issues below        [ To ]be defined                 [xj None
b. Environmental category:  I ]    A  [ ]    B      [x]    C
c. Justification/Rationale for category rating: The Project will be of a technical assistance
nature, with strengthening of institutional capacity. It does not involve physical investmnent
works. The Project would add value to sustainable environmental protection and improvement
water management in the basin.
d. Status of any other environmental studies: There does not seem to be shortage of donor
slupport and funding for MRC on environmental studies, relating mostly to data collection and
database building, survey, investigations, mapping and inventories, policy studies and
assessment. Subjects of these programs completed or on-going range from inventories of
ecosystems, wetland bio-diversity, watersheds, freshwater fishery and forest covers, to
environmental assessment, salinity and acid sulfate soils, water quality and quantity monitoring.
Active donors are Sweden, Denmark, UNEP, Switzerland and Germany (Section D.2).
e. Local groups and NGOs consulted: n.a. Consultations see Section E.7 below.
f. Resettlement.
[I Summarize issues below         [ ] To be defined                [x] None
g. Borrower permission to release EA:[ ] Yes; [ No;               or [x] n.a.
7. Participatory Approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Implementation of the Mekong Agreement requires strong political commitment from all
member states, and the participation and support of key stakeholders in the basin and external
parties. The Project preparation and implementation must be owned by MRC who will work
through NMCs with national line agencies and other stakeholders. To enhance this ownership,
MRC organized national workshops and two regional consultation workshops with NMCs,
national agencies, MRC JC members, national GEF focal points, and donors during the two-stage
of Project concept fornulation. In Stage-I, the MRC team and the consultants developed a
conceptual framework for the WUP and the Project, which was used as the basis for the first



19
regional consultation workshop on January 8-9, 1998 in Bangkok. In Stage-II, the design of the
Project components was developed based on national discussions to understand each riparian's
needs and concerns for promoting and managing development and for their national interests. It
was discussed at JC meeting in March 1998 and the second regional consultation workshop on
May 13-14 in Vientiane. These consultations provided feedback on the interpretation of the
Agreement and key national and regional concerns to be addressed in the Project, and helped
reshape the Project concept.
The process of the Project implementation is seen as important as its outcome. It is
expected that the consultation process will intensify during implementation and include a wider
participatory audience. The PIP emphasizes the requirements on the consultation process, which
would include consultation among the member states during drafting the "Rules" in a manner that
is appropriate to the sensitive nature of the discussions, and consultations with interested groups
and stakeholders on modeling, technical, social and environmental issues. In March 1999, MRC
adopted new guidelines for public participation in MRC activities. It also prepared a public
participation plan for implementation under this Project (see PIP Annex I). The plan aims to
initiate stakeholder participation on a cross-national basis in the Mekong Region, to carry out
stakeholder analysis and to include civil society in the consultation process. Review by Bank
social unit found the plan to be acceptable, with some improvements.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Preliminary discussions were held with JICA, Finland and France on potential parallel
co-financing of the Project, and with UNDP, ADB, UK Embassy in Bangkok and AusAid on
coordination. Further exchange of information took place during the MRC Donor Consultative
Group Meeting in October 1998.
8. Procurement:
Procurement under the Project is expected to be simple, as most of the procurement
activities will involve hiring of consultants by MRC, arrangements for training, seminars and
study tours, and purchase of computer and office equipment for MRCS and riparian agencies.
MRCS staff have good experience in procurement of international consultants and goods through
their past involvement with various donor supported programs. It has also gained experience
with Bank procurement policy through executing the GEF PDF Block-B grant during Project
preparation. The Bank Regional Procurement Adviser carried out a procurement review in
Phnom Penh in March 1999, and concluded that staff in the MRCS is capable of carrying out the
Project procurement. Subsequently, MRCS prepared a draft procurement plan (PIP Annexes E
and F) and provisional procurement regulations (PIP Annex J) which were reviewed by the
team's procurement staff, who found the regulations a sound basis to work on. It was agreed
with the MRCS that: (a) a procurement advisor will be recruited on a short-term basis to assist
MRCS in procurement matters during the first year of Project implementation; and (b) MRCS
staff will participate in Bank procurement training that will be provided in the region during the
upcoming year.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Institutional: The long-term viability of the MRC depends on two main elements: the
interest of the riparians or the demand for such a regional institution to help facilitate and
promote regional cooperation in the Basin; and the technical capacity of MRC in making sound
decision on basin management issues. At this stage, the first element does not appear to be in
doubt. But closer linkages between the MRC, the NMCs and the national resource management



20
agencies need to be forged. For the second element, putting in place basin management tools, the
establishment of "Rules" to implement the Agreement, and preparation of the BDP will all
contribute to boosting of MRC's technical capacity.
Financial: Since the establishment of the earlier MC in the 1950s to MRC in 1990s, the
activities of the regional agency have been almost entirely funded by donor agencies. MRC has
now an annual budget between $12-15 million (Section C.4). MRC-member countries pay for
some nominal share of the MRC's administrative costs and counterpart staff support. If donor
funding were to decrease, it is unclear if the MRC would be able to continue to carry out its
current programs. Given the continued importance of the Basin in the region, the strong donor
interest demonstrated over the past 40 years, and MRC being the only regional organization
dealing exclusively with water and related resources management in the Basin, it is not
foreseeable that donors would reduce dramatically their support to the MRC. Nonetheless, MRC
cvoncurs that its long-term goal should be to increase the amounts of member contributions and
generate other revenues to cover greater share of the MRC activities. For this purpose, MRCS
hlas prepared a Business Finance Plan (June I 999) to demonstrate how it would gradually take
over financing of the WUP management team as GEF financing will be set on a declining basis.
The Plan, as part of PIP, has been endorsed by the JC in July 1999.
Technical: There are no insurmountable technical issues. While the basin modeling
wrould be a complicated exercise, numerous basin models have been available in the market and
applied in many river basins of the world. One concern is the sustainability of the modeling
efforts. Previous modeling results have not been used effectively. The main reason is that the
inodels were developed separately with certain sub-sectoral interest, and do not have a strong
focus on MRC's decision-making for basin planning and management. Thus, there has been little
incentive to keep them operational. Nor have these studies created much permanent modeling
capacity inside MRCS or among the riparian sMates to apply the models and update them (Section
El.3). The modeling component under this Project would have the primary focus of developing
and testing the formulation of the "Rules", of being operational to assist MRC in monitoring and
review of the implementation of the "Rules", and of aiding decision making on basin
mnanagement issues. Regardless of what models are adopted, they would be data driven. There is
a large amount of information in MRC on the environmental aspects, an area where in the past
the MRC has been relatively strong in data gathering and analysis. However, a detailed review
into the adequacy (data quality, interval, format, integration) of the databases would be carried
out during the start of the Project implementation by qualified experts as a pre-modeling exercise.
The focus of the review would be on supporting basin modeling and not on general data
collection.
2. Critical Risks (reflectingassumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1).'
Risk                Risk             Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1: from Output to Objective
MRC agenda and programs are donor-    M    To provide GEF Project funds directly to MRC for its
driven.                                  management, with BanklGEF supervision.
Low implementation and management    S    Include a capacity building component. UNDP Phase
capacity, and coordination of MRC,       II support program to increase institutional capacity in
MvIRCS, NMC.                             parallel to the implementation of the Project.
Weak national capacity to implement  M l The basin model package to be made operational to
the Project and continually use the      support monitoring, review and evaluation of the
analytical tools for basin planning and  "Rules". Provide training to national agencies to
management.                              operate and apply the models.



21
Member states unable to reach         S    To ensure high level commitment from MRC, concept
agreement on interpretation of the         review only after MRC Council's endorsement of the
principles in the Mekong Agreement or      Project proposal, and negotiations after JC and
on draft "Rules", thus causing delay in    Council's approval of PIP. Set moderate Project
Project implementation.                    outputs and realistic performance indicators. To
promote regional cooperation, rather than create
conditions to riparian development. Provide high-
powered international advisory panel to facilitate
consultation and negotiations.
Annex 1: from Component to Output
Riparians unable to reach agreement on    M    Consultations with key parties in the riparian states
model selection and parameters.            from an early stage of Project preparation, and during
implementation. Provide technical assistance with
international experience.
Complicated issues related to water  M     Set modest Project scope, limited to assistance in
quality measuring and unclear mandate      developing water quality rules and guidelines, review
of MRC in setting environmental            of country environmental policies, and drafting water
standards.                                 quality monitoring procedures.
Inadequate participation or information    S    Project to provide funds to encourage upper riparian
exchange with China and Myanmar.           participation, to facilitate dialogue.
More donor interest and enough funds  N    No need to mitigate, as GEF sees it as a positive sign.
to support the whole WUP; GEF funds
to cover incremental cost become
unnecessary.
Overall Risk Rating                   S __S
Risk Rating - H (High), S (Substantial), M (Modest), N (Negligible or Low)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System):   None
G: Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness (see Section C. 4).
a) Appoint an independent auditor on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
b) Recruit three specialists for WUP Management Team in MRCS.
c) Establish three working groups with appropriate support staff.
d) Fully staff NMC WUP Units.
2. Dated Covenants:
a)  Prepare semi-annual reports (progress report, monitoring and evaluation report and
work plan for the next six months) by June 30 and December 31 of each year, starting
June 2000.
b)  Set up, by June 30, 2000, a project monitoring system using proper project management
software to track physical progress, costs, budgets, procurement and disbursement, and
key performance indicators.
c) Carry out project implementation mid-term review by June 30, 2003.
d)  Complete development of functional integrated basin modeling package by October
31, 2003.
e)  Complete development, installation and testing of a functional and integrated
knowledge base and information systems by December 31, 2003.



22
f)  JC approval of preliminary procedures for information exchange, flow and water use
monitoring, and notification/consultation protocols by July 31, 2004.
g)  JC approval of provisional in-stream flow "rules" (including minimum flows) by
July 3 1, 2005.
h) JC approval of provisional water quality related "rules" by July 31, 2006.
i)  Prepare project completion report by December 31, 2007.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Ix] The WUP team leader was recruited through competitive process and came on board in
September, 1999. This expenditure is expected to be retroactively financed by GEF grant after
project approval. Preparation of a short list for the international adviser to the WUP management
team and for the procurement expert is underway.
[x] Recruitment of the consultant team under the Finnish funds to carry out the "Identification of
Modeling Needs, Data Requirements and Selection Criteria" is expected to be initiated shortly.
Th- French funds have been made available to MVIRCS and initial activities have started.
[x] Appointments of National WJUP coordinators have been made in all four countries.
[x] MRCS submitted a draft PIP for Bank review in July 1999. The PIP was found to be
geilerally realistic. Revisions were discussed at negotiations and a revised PIP is expected to be
submitted to the Bank prior to Board.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x-! This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies, i.e. OP/BP 10.02 on Financial
Management (section E.4); Procurement assessment (regional requirement, Aug. 11, 1998); and
OP/BP 7.50 "International Waters" (below).
Two upper riparians, China and Myanrmar, are not a member of MRC, although technical
collaboration and exchange of information on the Mekong already exist between MRC countries
and technical institutions in China. According to para.7(b) of the Bank OP 7.50, one of the
exceptions to notification to riparians is that the Project is of the nature of water resource surveys
and feasibility studies on international waterways. The Project will be of a nature of a technical
assistance program, involving information collection, modeling studies, training and institutional
strengthening. It is in the Bank's judgement that the Project falls into this exception to official
notification. Nonetheless, China and Myanmar have been informed about the Project and have
participated in annual dialogue meetings, including a recent one in July 1999. They will be
invited in technical discussions and riparian consultations during implementation (Section E.3).
Task Team Leader:   Mei Xie (EASRDD)?
Sector Director:    Mr. Geoffrey Fox (EASRD) 5 tIP      K
Coumtry Director:  E Ms. Ngozi N. Okon-Iweaa
Regional Program Coordinator: Mr. E  dley Bson (EAPVP)



Annex 1
MRC: Water Utilization Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                 Key Performance Indicators                 Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions/Risks
Supervision
MRC Goal:                    Operationalized Mekong Agreement, with subsidiary   MRC Annual reports and  Political and economic stability of
agreements/rules on water sharing in place.    News Letters               riparian states.
An econormically prosperous,
socially just and environmentally  Formulation and adoption of a basin development  Reports from MRC-JC and    Continued willingness of riparian
sound Mekong River Basin     plan.                                           Council meetings           states to collaborate on the basin
development.
Development Objectives:
Development of a functional, integrated basin  MRC project implementation  The Mekong Agreement is
Establish effective mechanisms   modeling package by October 31, 2003;       progress reports           respected by member states, there
to improve water resources                                                                              is continued high political support
management for the economic    Development, installation and testing of a functional   GEF/Bank and donor  from the member states for the
and social development of the    and integrated knowledge base and information  supervision reports     MRC and its decisions, with
Mekong Basin in an           systems on water and related resources, with a                             coordinated actions at the national
environmentally sustainable  communication system linking the NMCs with the  MRC Annual reports and     level.
manner (including reasonable  MRCS, by December 31, 2003;                    News Letters
and equitable water utilization by                                                                      Continued donor support for MRC.
the countries of the Basin;  Adoption of protocols for information exchange,  Reports from MRC-JC and
protection of environment,   water use monitoring, and preliminary notification  Council meetings       Future increments of dry season
aquatic life and the ecological    /consultation procedures by July 31, 2004;                           water from development of upper
balance of the Basin).                                                       Council resolutions        basin (which creates continued
Adoption of provisional in-stream flow "rules"                            interest of lower riparians to
(including minimum flows) and final                                       collaborate).
notification/consultation/agreemetn protocols by
July 31, 2005;
Adoption of provisional water quality rules by July
31, 2006.                                    _



Outputs:
MRC agenda and programs not
1. A functional and acceptable  Basin model package installed and being applied at    MRC project implementation  driven by individual donor interest.
package of basin simulation   MRCS and member countries.                 progress reports
modeling and analytical
tools supported by improved                                                                         Member states able to reach
databases                                                                                           preliminary agreement on
interpretation of the principles in
2. A set of recommended rules  A set of provisional "rules" proposed to the MRC JC   Reports from MRC JC and    the Mekong Agreement.
for water utilization (i.e. dry  and Council.                            Council meetings
and wet season flow levels                                                                          Adequate project management
on the River; notification                                                                          capacity and coordination of MRC,
and review procedures for                                                                           MRCS and NMC.
proposed water uses, water
quality)                                                                 GEF/Bank and donor         National capacity to implement the
supervision reports        proiect and continually use the
3. Enhanced project and basin   Project management teams in place in MRCS and                           analytical tools for basin planning
management capacity in    NMCs; WUP units and working groups established    Visits by Bank supervision    and management.
MRC, NMC, MRCS and        and functioning with appropriate staffing and training  missions                                                9
relevant national agencies
Project Components:          Input:
(see Annex 2)                A. 1 Technical assistance through consultancy in  MRC project Implementation  Riparians able to reach agreement
hydrological and hydraulic modeling, testing,  progress reports           on model selection and parameters.
A. Develop basin modeling and   calibration, installation and analysis.
analytical tools             A.2 Purchasing of commercial modeling software,    Bank/GEF supervision
computer hardware for regional and national uses,  mission reports
communication equipment, monitoring equipment.
A.3 Supplemental data collection, surveys,
monitoring and mapping.
A.4 Integrate existing databases with the basin-wide
modeling system in MRCS and member states.
A.5 Training of regional and national staff in
modeling operating and application.
A.6 Consultations among member states on
modeling results and their use for forrnulation of rules
of water utilization.



B. Formulate water utilization       B. 1   Technical assistance through consultancy in                                          Complicated issues related to
rules                                drafting of rules.                                                                          water quality measuring and
B.2   Structured and mediated consultations through                                         unclear mandate of MRC in setting
an expert panel to facilitate extensive negotiations                                        environmental standards.
among MRC member states.
B.3   High-powered consultant panels to work with                                           Participation of upper riparians,
politicians.                                                                                particularly China, in the
consultation process.
C. Strengthen institutional          C.l   Provide training courses, on-the-job training,
capacity for basin management    workshops, and study tours for MRC and NCM staff,                                               Adequate in-house capability of
and WUP implementation               and representatives from relevant national agencies on                                      MRCS and continuity of MRCS
water resources and basin planning and management                                           and NMC project teams.
relating to WUJP, improvement of MRC and MRCS's
effectiveness, accountability, transparency and                                             NMCs' active participation in
efficiency.                                                                                 implementation through
C.2    Fund incremental administrative costs in                                             contributions in kind, quality staff
MRCS relating to implementation and supervision,                                            input, and discussion meetings.
including the establishment of a project monitoring
and evaluation system.                                                                                                                    cn
C.3     Strengthening of MRCS capacity in financial
and procurement management.
C.4    Facilitation of information sharing and
consultations with upper riparians.                                     _
Note:
Development Objective: Describes the impact the project's outputs will have on the beneficiary, institution, or system in terms of changed behavior or improved performance. The development
objective defines the project's success.
Project Outputs: Defines what the project can be held directly accountable for producing--the project's deliverables, the goods, and services it will produce. Typically, outputs are independent,
synergistic, and integrated.
Project Components: Clusters of activities that define how the products and services will be delivered (technical assistance, physical infrastructure, and the like).



26
Annex 2
MRC: Water Utilization Project
Project Description
1.    The W13P Project will help establish a permanent and functional program to support the
management of water resources in the Mekong Basin in a manner consistent with the Mekong
Agreement. It consists of three components: (A) Develop basin model package and knowledge
base. (B) Develop rules for water utilization. (C) Strengthen institutional capacity of MRC/
NMCs.
2.    The output of the Project is expected to be MRC use of the basin model package and
knowledge base (Component A) to help formulate rules for water utilization (Component B) and
the Basin Development Plan (BDP). The outcome is expected to be MRC use of the knowledge
base to review proposed water uses by MRC-member states according to the "rules for water
utilization" and for consistency with the BDP.
A. Basin Model Package and Knowledge Base
3.    The broad aim of Component A is to provide an analytic tool to support W1IUP, and the
BDP, that is based on improved understanding of the interaction between the physical and
biological features of the basin and their functions, and the changes in these that may occur due
to human activities. The Project would support the recruitment of international and local
consultants to work with the countries, and the procurement of related computer and
communications equipment to develop the related shared information system and knowledge base
at MRC for decision making, planning and modeling by developing, testing and implementing a
system of shared data bases and software tools (sub-component A.1), to develop the basin
modeling package (A.2), ancd to use the models to identify and analyze transboundary
environmental, social and economic impacts of proposed actions on the aquatic ecosystem and
other water uses and functions of social, economic, and regional and global importance (A.3).
A..1 Information and Knowledge Base Development
4.    (i) Modeling Needs, Data Requirements, and Selection Criteria. The WUP Project will
not attempt to develop a comipletely newa model with new software. The Project will select
models that are presently available in the market. Selection of the modeling system is a major
decision to be taken early in the Project. The differences that exist among existing modeling
systems are found in the appropriateness of the basic scientific approaches and assumptions built
into the model, the computational techniques, the user and data system interfaces, their flexibility
in adapting and building the model in different physical, environmental and economic settings,
and the speed and ease with wlhich changes in the model and data can made. Most importantly,
the outputs of the selected modeling system should be able to address and support the objectives
of the WUP Project, particularly the consultative process by which the rules for water utilization
will be negotiated among the riparian countries.
5.    As a preparatory work, MRCS carried out a preliminary model screening study with
financial and technical assistance from AusAID from late 1998 -July 1999. The study provided,
with primary focus on MRCS staff, awareness of the potential benefits and limitations of
modeling, preliminary assessment of hydrological data, modeling exercise with the Murry
Darling water quality and quantity model, and training courses.
6.    The sub-component aclivity will be carried out by the MRCS and NMC WUP teams to
define the modeling needs and objectives, the data requirements and likely limitations that will



27
prevail during the WUP Project, and the criteria to be used in selecting the modeling system. The
outcome will be discussed with and reviewed by the WUP regional and country Units. When the
result is agreed between the MRCS and NMC WUP teams, the procurement of consultants and
the work on the modeling system would be initiated.
7.    (ii) Review of Available Data. Modeling and related analytical tools are only as useful
as the quality and completeness of the data on which they are based. A lot of effort and donor
support has been given (both in the past and currently) to building and improving water and
environmental related knowledge, including inventories, surveys and data collection, monitoring
networks, GIS building, and mapping. Active areas with the most donor support include
hydrology, water quality, wetlands, groundwater, fisheries, forestry, salinity, acidity and
sedimentation. These data can be found in the seven databases installed in the MRCS: forestry;
meteorology and hydrology; water quality; socio-economy; water resources; groundwater; and
wetlands.
8.    Basic data needed for the basin modeling package include catchment features,
meteorology, hydrology, water quality, social and economic, water use, major infrastructure,
groundwater and hydrographics. Primary sources of data include the hydromet network, project
studies, remote sensing, GIS systems under development, maps and survey results. The Project
should review and use existing data or data likely to emerge from ongoing projects. The Project
will support additional data collection if they are critical for model building, and if calibration
data are missing or outdated. The modeling needs of the WUP Project would also influence and
shape some MRC's ongoing and planned monitoring and data collection programs.
9.    (iii) Identification and Filling of Critical Data Gaps. Both the WIJP Project and the
long-term support for implementation of the water utilization rules depend on the MRC
knowledge base and the quality and reliability of data in its information system. The
improvement of the knowledge base and the information system will necessarily be a gradual and
evolutionary process. Nevertheless during the WUP Project, an effort will be made to close
critical data and information gaps. During the review of available data, and the analysis of
transboundary environmental, economic and social issues, these gaps will be identified and
priorities agreed between the WIJP teams in MRCS and NMCs. Moreover, in consultation with
the concerned donors, the MRCS will formulate a program to close these gaps through
adjustments to existing projects where this is feasible or by securing new support from donors.
10.   (iv) Data Bases and Informnation System Design.  The aim is to have a modem
information system with appropriate data bases at the core of the MRC knowledge base that is
shared and equally accessible to the MRCS an the NMCs. The Project will support the design of
this information system including the selection and preparation of required software, design of
data structures, hardware and commnunications arrangements, and the development of procedures
for data base development and maintenance. These concepts and specifications will be
summarized in a report thoroughly discussed with all stakeholders in the riparian countries and
agreed by between the MRCS and the NMCs. This agreement is intended to be a critical input to
consultations on the proposed information and monitoring exchange protocol (B.l.1), and is
required to initiate the development, testing and implementation of the WUP data bases and
information systems (A.2.5).
11.   (v) Assessment of National Legal and Institutional Frameworks. Under this sub-
component the national legal and institutional frameworks will be reviewed to assess the legal
and institutional capacity of the NMCs and national line agencies to implement the rules



28
(developed in Component B) and to provide the basis for the rule making in order to ensure that
the rules are appropriate and fea,sible.
12.   (vi) Water Quality Data and Problem Assessment. In spite of the fact that hydrological
conditions strongly influence water quality, concern for water quality in the Mekong is quite
recent. There is no updated assessment of the present state of the water quality in the Basin,
although, it is obvious that increased erosion/sedimentation, salinisation, and local acidification
and eutrophication are some irmiportant issues. A number of MRCS environmental projects are
now on-going, and will provide knowledge for the water quality mnodeling. Before the water
quality components of the basin rnodeling package are develop, a thorough assessment of
existing water quality data, and assessment of the status of water quality and the significant
present and future threats will be carried out.
13. (vii) Development, Testing and Implementation of Data Bases and Informnation Systems.
The development, testing and implementation of the data bases and information systems would
involve the procurement of hardware and software and its installation and integration into a
knowledge base computer network accessible to the NMCs and line agencies as well as the
different divisions and units within the MRF'CS in accordance with the design. This would include
an Intranet system and access to the Internet. This activity will also include the development of
operation and maintenance programs ancl the training technicians responsible for the system.
Quality assurance systems will need to be operationalized. The system will need to be fully
tested to ensure that its structure and formats are compatible and that the designed access and use
functions are operational. The systems will also require electrical and virus safety features that
should be fully implemented ancd tested.
14.   The data bases and information systems will be designed to be compatible and integrated
with other on-going MRC activities including the proposed "Integrated Geographic Infornation
System and Statistical Databases for Natural Resources Management" project to be financed by
Denmark and the development of Intranet and Internet connections between the MRCS and the
NMCs being financed by Finland and UNDP.
A.2 Development of Basin ModelUrng Package
15.   The need for the deve-loprment of an operational, integrated, comprehensive basin
modeling package for the water resources of the mainstream and tributaries of the Lower
Mekong River Basin is based or three considerations:
* Implementation of the provisions of Chapter III of the Agreement specifically
Articles 5 and 6, and Chapter IV specifically Article 26 (Water Utilization Rules).
* Support preparation of a ]3asin Development Plan.
*  Achieving the key results sought in the Vision and Strategy document recently.
adopted by the MRC.
16.   The riparian countries and the MRC have recognized that the complexity of the water
resouTces of the Mekong Basin, and the wide range and scope of existing water uses and
development proposals and plans of tlhe riparian countries, must be adequately taken into account
in evaluating options to implernent the Agreement and in implementing priority studies and
projects that constitute their regional and national strategies.



29
17.   Prior Modeling Activity.  MRCS, and its predecessor Mekong Committees, have
undertaken a number of modeling studies in the past, and some models are available. However,
those models have not resulted in a comprehensive Mekong Basin modeling package. Nor have
these studies created a permanent, continuing modeling capacity inside MRCS or withinNMCs
and their partner line agencies. This is because those studies have mainly reflected specific sub-
sector interests (such as salinity, hydropower or irrigation), were often ad hoc or for specific
project purposes, and did not have any linkage to the planning and management responsibility of
MRC. They have also often lacked a strong focus on capacity building within the riparian
countries or in the MRCS that was sustainable.
18.   Basic Elements and Processes To Be Modeled. The WUP basin model package should
include elements defined and linked together in a structure to represent the catchment and river
system, including present and planned water use, that adequately represents present physical
reality, provides reliable estimates of future conditions, and provides the information needed for
management decisions. The linked elements will require overall calibration and verification to
ensure acceptable matching of the model and real world behavior.
19.   Choice of an appropriate time-step will be necessary for the modeling package. Observed
flow show considerable variation within each of the months during the wet season. This variation
is important in maintaining wetland processes. Additionally a daily time-step may be needed for
water quality modeling, and in the delta area, where tidal influence must be considered, even a
shorter time step may be considered. The short time step allows better evaluation of the
management rules relating to water quantity and notification procedures.
20.   Basic Approach. The basin divides into three major zones or parts because of the
underlying hydrologic and hydraulic character of the river and the types of river functions and
environmental concerns that predominate. Although each part of the basin requires a different
modeling approach, the WUP modeling package must be capable of an overall integrated analysis
of the basin and the river's annual cycle. The basin modeling package must be flexible and user-
friendly. Special emphasis should be put on the transparency and ease of understanding
assumptions, structure, and results. Visual output should be emphasized. The basin modeling
package should be implemented in a manner to permit the MRCS and NMC modeling working
groups to readily change the underlying structure, assumptions, parameters, and data
incorporated in the various model components (this may require that the they have full access to
the model computer code).
A.2. 1 Upper Basin
21.   The Upper Basin generally comprises the watershed and river system above Pakse (to be
confirmed). The watershed lies primarily in Laos, Thailand, China and Myanmar. This is the
upland portion of the watershed where hydrologic processes, including rainfall, glacial and snow
melt, and groundwater recharge and discharge predominate in the determination of river flow.
The modeling approach in this portion of the watershed should therefore be hydrologic,
concentrating on predictions of runoff and recharge and the related hydrologic processes.
22.   Groundwater Modeling and Assessment. Because of the importance of groundwater
recharge and discharge in this portion of the watershed, understanding groundwater behavior is
particularly important in modeling both the quantity and quality of water resources.. This is
particularly the case where water quality is related to geologic conditions in the catchment. For
example, the high salinity levels of the Mekong tributaries in some parts of Thailand are related
to rising levels of saline groundwater in these watersheds. The level of groundwater is expected



30
to continue to rise as the clearing of land for cultivation and the development of irrigation
expands. This process will lead to increasing salinity in surface waters. Understanding, predicting
and developing proposals for mnanaging this phenomenon will be an important task.
23.   Reservoirs. Reservoirs are a critical element in modeling the Upper Basin. The largest
and most important existing and proposed reservoirs are located in the Upper Basin. Storage and
regulation for different purposes (primarily hydropower, irrigation and water supply) are the
primary objectives of these projects. Their mode of operation has significant effects on
downstream flow patterns and on water quality because of changes in flow level, timing,
assimilative capacity caused not only by the scheduling of releases and diversion, but also the
water quality and ecological changes in the reservoir lakes.
24.   Portions of the Mekong Basin in China and Myanmar. An estimated 18 percent of the
flow of the Mekong River originates in the uppermost part of the basin located in China (16
percent) and Myanmar (2 percent). Neither country is a party to the Agreement. China has well
known plans for the development of the substantial hydropower potential of this region. China
has already developed several small storage sites for this purpose, and is currently planning to
develop the largest storage site with a potential of 4,800 MW. Knowledge of the natural flows
from this region, and regulated flows that will result after development and use of the full
potential of the river by China and Myanmar is important to the complete analysis of the annual
cycle of the Mekong River and to the estimation of flows at selected points in the lower basin
during critical period of water use and finction. The Project will support efforts by the WUP
team to involve Chinese specialists in the development of the basin modeling package, and to
seek the active participation and support of China and Myanmar to the overall WUP program of
the MRC.
A.2.2 Lower Basin
25.   The Lower Basin below Pakse has a quite different hydrologic and hydraulic character.
This portion of the basin consists of the Cambodian flood plain, the Great Lake (Ton Le Sap),
and the delta in Vietnam. The flows pattern in this portion of the basin is primarily determined
by hydraulic conditions, particularly water levels and tidal influences, except in the monsoon
season where the high rainfall in this portion of the basin, high mainstream flows and the lack of
drainage causes extensive flooding and surface storage of excess water. Downstream of Pakse,
and in the delta, the mainstream divides into several channels and branches further complicating
the flow pattern and the modeling.
26.   Tonle Sap. The Great Lake (Tonle Sap), the main feature in the Cambodian plain, is of
exceptional ecological and economic importance to Cambodia, the Mekong Basin, and globally.
The Lake includes extensive wetlands, flooded forests, and its perimeter is extensively cultivated
and irrigated. The Lake is connected to the mainstream of the Mekong in Phnom Penh by the
Tonle Sap River which fumctioins as a inlet to fill the Lake with Mekong River water in the high
flow period and as a drain in the low flow season. Significant volumes are also contributed to the
Lake by its surrounding watershed. The Lake's surface area varies from about 3,000 km2 at the
end of the dry season to about 16,000 km" at the end of the wet season. The subsequent gradual
draining of the Lake during the dry season is a significant contributor to the dry season flow of
the Mekong below Phnom Penh. This globally unique Lake-River system including its wetland
and flooded forest ecosystem is thought to be critical to the bio-diversity and inland fishery of the
Mekong Basin. This is a critical dynamic element of the WUP basin model package.



31
A.2.3 The Delta
27.   The third major zone in the Mekong basin is the Delta. Tidal influences extend above
Phnom Penh. Just below the confluence of the Tonle Sap River with the Mekong River in
Phnom Penh, the Mekong divides into the Bassac River and the mainstream of the Mekong.
About 80% of the flow continues down the Mekong. Both rivers are important to navigation and
are sources of irrigation water in the Delta. This is an agriculturally and ecologically rich area
with extensive mangrove forests near the coast. Irrigation and drainage is provided to about 2.4
million hectares of rice. Water management is extremely complex in such a highly populated and
developed delta region. In addition to the problems of water supply, drainage and navigation,
and control of salinity intrusion, the Delta includes extensive areas of acid-sulfate soils that when
drained and developed result is very acidic drainage water. These acidic drainage waters tend to
also result in increased levels of soluble aluminum that is a significant factor in fish disease. The
Delta is an integral part of the entire ecosystem of the Lower Basin, and its water management
system and needs must be an integral part of the WUP basin modeling package. Vietnam has
developed expertise and models to support the development of the Delta, and these existing
resources should be fully integrated and utilized in the development of the WtUP basin modeling
package.
A.2.4 Water Quality Modeling and Strategy Development
28.   The findings, conclusions and recommendations of the water quality data and problem
assessment, including the proposed concept and approach to the water quality modeling
component of the basin model package, should be discussed and agreed with the MRCS and the
NMCs, and members of the JC Sub-committee on Water Quality Rules. Based on this agreement
the basin model package component require to model water quality will be developed and
calibrated, and fully integrated into the overall model package in a manner that will enable the
VUP team to carry out integrated modeling of water quantity and quality.
29.   The Agreement provides no guidance on the form or criteria for water quality rules (sub-
component B.2.2). Given the uncertainty inherent in the existing data, the lack of viable options
to address some problems, and the weak state of environmental law and enforcement capacity, it
seems likely the Sub-committee should develop and recommend to the MRC a strategy with
interim rules that can be improved as the water quality knowledge base improves and the
institutional capacity and policy framework for dealing with the issues improves. It is therefore
most important to understand which problems are of greatest strategic and economic importance
and deal with those problems by the most effective means available. The most difficult questions
facing the Sub-committees on rules for water quantity and quality will be to set priorities among
the problems and threats that have been identified and to use the integrated basin modeling
package to develop a strategy to address those problems. Such a strategy in the near term is
likely to rely less on legal standards for ambient water quality or emissions than on a specific
action plan to be undertaken by each country as appropriate to strengthen water quality and
emission monitoring, harmonize and increase the effectiveness of their legal frameworks, and
strengthen the enforcement and policy framework. At the same time, the interim rules could be
framed to address those specific problems about which there is good knowledge of the root
causes and consequences, and for which there are viable means to address the problem.
A.2.5 Integration of Upper and Lower Basin Models



32
30.   Individual models apprlDpriate for the physical and environmental setting and principal
features in each part of the basin will be linked to form a single integrated modeling package
capable of analyzing the entire basin and the linkages and relationship between actions in
different parts of the basin at different points in time. Modeling of water quantity and quality,
and linkages with important environmental, social and economic issues such as wetlands,
fisheries, salinity and navigation will be integrated to insure consistent and comparable results
and recommendations, and to provide a comprehensive basis for comparing options. The basin
modeling package is intended to be able to analyze the entire annual cycle of the Mekong River,
as well as specific critical periods at selected locations under a range of assumptions and project
proposals.
A.2.6 Calibration and Verification of the WATUP Modeling Package
31.   The WUP basin modelitng package is intended to provide the key analytical support to the
MRC's process of negotiation of the rules for water utilization, provide similar support to the
preparation of the Basin Development PlaT, and support project and strategy development in each
of the riparian countries. It must therefore be a tool accepted by all the riparian countries and its
results and outputs must be considered by all as credible and reliable (within the limits of the data
that is available at any point in time). Hence, particular attention will be given to the calibration
of the WUP basin modeling package. After calibration, the modeling package should be verified
using different input data than used in the calibration process before it is used to formulate, test,
and evaluate options.
A.2.7 Verification of Water Use Monitoring Protocols
32.   Water use monitoring protocols will be developed under sub-component B. 1.2. Article
26 of the Agreement calls for irnproved mechanisms to monitor the intra-basin water uses, and a
mechanism to monitor inter-basin diversions. The calibrated basin modeling package will be
used to simulate a wide range of water use and diversion scenarios to test the viability of the
alternative mechanisms being considered in the consultations on these rules.
A.2.8 Support for Rules Formulation and Consultations
33.    The calibrated basin modeling package and the knowledge base will be used to test
procedures and guidelines de-veloped during consultations on the Procedural Rules (sub-
component B. 1) and to formulate and evaluate alternatives and options for the Physical Rules
(sub-component B.2).
A.3   Environmental, Economic and Social Trans-boundary Analysis
34.   The ability to identify, predict and assess linkages and impacts between proposed actions
and transboundary environmental, economic, and social needs and concerns is critical to the
success of the WUP Project. Such an analytical framework would provide important support to
consultations among the riparian countries on the interpretation and implementation of the
Agreement. It would also provide the tools needed to review project proposals and plans under
the notification and consultation protocols, to analyze options implement the Agreement, to
properly carry out environmental impact assessments for proposed actions, and to support the
preparation of a Basin Development Plan that is consistent with sustainable development and
management of the water resour,ces of the LMekong River Basin.



33
35.   The development of such an analytical framework depends on an understanding on how
the environment and other water uses and functions (navigation, salinity control, wetlands,
fisheries, water supply, water quality) could be affected by changes in the flow regime of the
river at critical times and locations, and on the ability to predict changes in the flow regime that
would result from proposed actions. The latter ability will be provided by the basin modeling
package developed in A.2. The aim of this sub-component A.3 is to develop additional model
components for the basin modeling package that would enable the MRCS and NMC WIJP teams
to analyze and predict transboundary impacts on the aquatic ecosystem and other water uses and
functions of social and economic importance. review of existing data and knowledge, and
problem assessment
A.3.1 Trans-boundary Problem Assessment, Priorities, and Data Needs
36.   MRCS and UNEP completed a Diagnostic Study of the Mekong River Basin in 1997. At
the time of that study, there did not exist sufficient knowledge of problems and their importance
to set priorities, or to develop specific guidelines or strategies to take preventive or corrective
action.
37.   This sub-component would rely primarily on existing data, and data that is likely to be
obtained from ongoing studies and field research. MRCS has implemented and has an ongoing
extensive program of field investigations, training, and capacity building focusing on key
transboundary issues in the Mekong Basin including fisheries, forestry and watershed
management, wetlands, salinity, acid-sulfate soils, flood plain management, and soil erosion and
sedimentation. These activities are placing increasing emphasis on collecting data and carrying
out related research on linkages with the flow and hydrologic regime. Assessing each problem
area with all available data, determining which problems are of regional and global significance,
and identifying specific needs for additional data are the key steps in launching this process.
38.    Closing Critical Data Gaps.  Local communities rely heavily on the river and its
associated environment. If the flow pattern or river flow is going to be changed so heavily that it
is damaging the associated environment, it will affect the well-being of the local populations and
may include movement from the local areas to the cities and towns. These communities are
valuable source of knowledge about the local environment and its relationship with river flow
especially under extreme conditions. This informal and subjective information is going to be
collected and collated using the network of social scientists in the region. The information
obtained is used when assessing the ecological and socio-economic impact of different
development alternatives.
39.   In areas where specific data are lacking, the Project would support the contracting of
national and international scientific expertise to review actual conditions in the field, discuss
issues and experience with local specialists, and develop change and response scenarios. The
scientific experts would visit the sites where assessment is needed, and would utilize information
and data from the social assessments, local knowledge, reviews of the national and international
literature, model outputs, and results of environmental and physical studies made at the site. The
panels would assess the impact of simulated changes in the river flow caused by different
planning alternatives. The result is a subjective but scientifically assessment that would provide a
basis for the WVP team to make progress and a basis for reformulating MRCS's long term
program of studies and research.



34
A.3.2 Transboundary model component development
40.   The objective of this component is to use the informnation from past investigations
together with information on the past and simulated river flow regimes, to guide river basin
management decisions on water and land use. Knowledge is needed on wetland issues such as
the location, extent, timing and duration of inundation, and their productive capacity. The data
and models should establish relationship between the river flow and these variables. Once the
relationship has been established, the impact of flow changes to the ecosystem can be estimated.
41.   Development even of semi-quantitative environmental response and impact analysis will
take time. In many cases, descriptive or simple tabular relationships are expected to be the best
form of such analysis in view of the limited knowledge and data available. Anyhow, in the case
of some fishery studies and the Study of Cambodian Wetlands and Flood-Plains some kind of
semi-quantitative response and impact analysis should be possible.
B. Development of the Rules for Water UCtilization
42.   The Project will support the MRC in the formulation of "Rules for Water Utilization" by
providing analytical tools, building technical capacity in the MRCS and the riparian states,
facilitating consultations, and providing legal expertise. The term "rules" is used in a general
sense to refer to the obligations of the MRC-member states with respect to Articles 5 and 6 of the
Mekong Agreement, and other actions necessary for the sustainable development of the Mekong
River Basin. The terms and concditions of the obligations incurred by the MRC-member states in
adopting different types of rules will be explored during the course of consultations and with the
support of an internationally recognized water law expert. The WVUP modeling and knowledge
base working groups will also support the rule-making process.
43.   A structured and facilitated consultation process with the Sub-Committee(s) for Water
Utilization (Quantity and Quality) is envisioned, with clear mile-stones and time-frames. The
drafting of "Rules for Water Utilization" will be a multi-faceted, long-term process that requires
extensive consultations, negotiation assistance, and solid scientific analysis. At least five
consultations per year, starting in mid-2000 and lasting until 2005, are envisioned. The WUP
project management team, in conjunction with a facilitator/legal expert, and appropriate WUP
working groups, will assist the Sub-Comrnittees in drafting water utilization rules. The Sub-
Committees will formulate draft rules for the consideration of the MRC Joint Committee, which
then makes recommendations to the Council. The MRC Council members are entitled to make
policy decisions on behalf of their respective governments (Article 15) and thus the terms and
conditions of the water utilization rules adopted by the Council are considered binding by the
MRC-member states.
44.   Article 26 of the Mekong Agreement mandates the Joint Committee to prepare "Rules for
Water Utilization and Inter-Basin Diversions" pursuant to Articles 5 and 6 of the Mekong
Agreement. Article 5 contains the general principle of "reasonable and equitable utilization" of
the waters of the Mekong systemn, and outlines the conditions for notification, consultation, and
agreement on proposed water uses. Article 6 calls for the maintenance of flows on the
mainstream with respect to i) natural dry season flows, ii) wet season flows sufficient to enable
the acceptable natural reverse flow of the Tonle Sap, and iii) peak flood flows. In order to
implement Articles 5 and 6 of the Mekong Agreement, and adhere to the principles of Article 3:
"Protection of the Environment and Ecological Balance," and Article 7: "Prevention and



35
Cessation of Harmful Effects," additional rules on water use monitoring, information and data
exchange protocols, and water quality are needed.
45.   In summary, "Rules" for water utilization anticipated to be formulated under the Project
are: (i) Procedural "Rules "---Protocols for information exchange; protocols for monitoring water
use and diversions in the Mekong Basin; and protocols for the notification and consultation on
proposed water use. (ii) Physical "Rules "--maintenance of flows on the mainstream; and water
quality "Rules".
46.   The MRC places a high priority on drafting a coherent and integrated set of water
utilization rules in an expeditious, yet scientifically sound manner. The strategy pursued in the
WUP Project is to facilitate and support a flexible, yet structured process in formulating the rules
for water utilization. Moreover, in a manner consistent with the principle of adaptive
management, and in light of the prevailing uncertainties in some key data, the rules will be
adopted on an interim basis, subject to review and revision according to the conditions
promulgated by the MRC.
47.   The initial phase of formulating the protocols outlined above, including: i) information
exchange, ii) water use monitoring, and iii) notification and consultation, can proceed soon after
the start-up of the WIUP Project because they deal primarily with "procedural rules." Critical data
gaps and improved information management needs will be identified under Component A.1 of
the WIJP Project (Information and Knowledge Base Development); this information will provide
the foundation for developing protocols for information exchange and water use monitoring. The
exchange of information engendered by these protocols should help in the development of the
Basin Modeling Package (Component A.2) and the Trans-boundary Response Analysis
(Component A.3), and support the formulation of the Basin Development Plan. Sub-Committee
deliberations on notification and consultation protocols can also begin during the early stages of
the of the WUP Project.
48.   Formulating rules related to maintenance of flows on the mainstream and water quality
rules, requires more scientific and environmental analysis and thus should wait until the Basin
Modeling Package (Component A.2) and the Trans-boundary Response Analysis (Component
A.3) are adequate to support this effort. These two sets of rules are referred to here as "physical
rules." As discussed below, the Project envisions water utilization rule-making proceeding with
"procedural rules" first, followed by "physical rules."
B.1 Procedural Rules
B. 1.1 Data and Inforrnation Exchange Protocols.
49.   Article 24, Provision C of the Mekong Agreement lists as some of the functions of the
Joint Committee "to regularly obtain, update and exchange information and data necessary to
implement this [Mekong] Agreement." Component A of the WIJP Project, "Basin Model
Package and Knowledge Base" will identify data gaps and needs and provide a basis for
developing data and information exchange protocols. Currently, the MRC-member states have
some data within their own national line agencies or National Mekong Committee Secretariats
which are not, but should be, shared with the MRCS. Conversely, the MRCS may have
information which is not easily accessible to the NMCs and line agencies.



36
50.   Informnation and data exchange protocols are required to ensure that the MRCS and the
NMCs and the line agencies in each of the riparian countries are aware of their responsibilities in
providing information and management actions within their areas of responsibility. Types of
information which might be subject to exchange protocols include:
*  Hydrological information on mainstream, tributaries, distributaries, groundwater
*  Meteorological data
*  Water use data
*  Water quality information
*  Land Use: Forestry, wetlands
*  Feasibility studies and associated ElAs, scientific surveys, etc.
*  Socio-economic data
*  Fishery data
*  Water-related infrastructure: reservoir and conveyance capacities, pump station sizes, etc.
*  Sector information related to water use and development
51.   The exchange protocols should include details such as,
*  Objectives and outcomes sought from the information exchange
-  Type and format of information to be exchanged
=  Information transfer chain from (and to) the MRCS, NMCs, government agencies, and
the community
*  Timing of such information transfers
*  Responsibility for maintaining database
*  Type of access to data bases
52.   Formulating and revising information exchange protocols will be a long term and
continuous process, but it is expected that significant progress can be made in the early stages of
the WUP Project, both to support the development of the Model Package and Knowledge Base
(Component A) and the Basin Development: Plan. A key performnance indicator for the WUP
Project will be the MRC adoption of an information exchange protocol for high-priority items
within 2 years of the start-up of the WUP Project.
B. 1.2 Water Use Monitoring Protocols
53.   Article 26 of the Mekong Agreement calls for the MRC to "improve the mechanism to
monitor the intra-basin uses" and "set-up a mechanism to monitor inter-basin diversions."
Although the MRC and the former (Interim) Mekong Committee have collected hydrological
data for over four decades, there does not exist a shared understanding among the MRC-member
states of their respective use of water. Developing a Basin Model Package and discussing the
"reasonable and equitable use" of water resources is not possible unless water uses are identified
and quantified.
54.   Water use monitoring protocols should apply to all significant existing surface and
groundwater consumptive and non-consumptive water uses in the lower Mekong Basin. Protocol
information on major water uses should include items such as:
* Amount and location of water diverted or abstracted



37
* Location of water use
* Amount of applied and consumptive water use
* Period in which the water used: season, month, week
* How the water used: irrigation, urban water supply, industrial use, etc.
* Amount and nature of return or waste water flows
55.   In addition to providing information on water use, mechanisms may need to be
formulated so that water use reporting in each riparian is accurate and acceptable by the other
MRC member countries. Verification procedures could include on-site inspections by MRCS
staff, certified reports by MRC member states, etc.
56.   Formulating and revising water use monitoring protocols will be a long term and
continuous process, but it is expected that significant progress can be made in the early stages of
the WUP Project, both to support the development of the Model Package and Knowledge Base
(Component A) and the Basin Development Plan. A key performance indicator for the WMIP
Project will be the MRC adoption of a water use monitoring protocol for high-priority items
within 2 years of the start-up of the WUP Project.
B.1.3 Notification, Consultation and Agreement Procedures
57.   Article 5 of the Mekong Agreement calls for the notification, consultation, and agreement
on proposed water uses according to the season (dry or wet), point of diversion (mainstream or
tributary), and location of use (intra- or inter-basin). The practical implementation of these
procedures requires the formulation of notification, consultation and agreement procedures.
Chapter II of the Mekong Agreement presents the following definitions:
*  Notification: Timely providing information by a riparian to the Joint Committee on its
proposed use of water according to the fortnat, content, and procedures set forth ... [in
the Rules for Water Utilization].
*  Prior Consultation: Timely notification plus additional data and information to the Joint
Committee as provided in ... [the Rules for Water Utilization] that would allow the other
member states to discuss and evaluate the impact of the proposed use upon their uses of
water and any other effects, which is the basis for arriving at an agreement.
58.   The Sub-Committee(s) for Water Utilization will need to make recommendations to the
Joint Committee on the "format, content and procedures" for notification and consultation.
59.   In addition to specifying the notification/consultation procedures, the MRC also needs to
develop internal procedures for handling the notification of proposed water uses.
60.   Formulating and revising notification and consultation protocols will be a long term and
continuous process, but important progress can be made in the early stages of the WUP Project.
For example, the basic conceptual questions can be addressed and draft protocols can be
considered. A preliminary definition of wet and dry seasons may be adopted. It may be possible
to identify proposed water use projects that all MRC members support, formulate notification
procedures, and process the project in the MRC as test cases. Not only would this help the MRC
develop notification procedures, but it would also allow important water resource development
projects to proceed through the MRC using unambiguous and officially-sanctioned notification



38
protocols. A key perfornance indicator for the WUP Project will be for the MRC to use formal
notification procedures for a non-controversial, mutually agreed-upon, water use project(s) within
2 years of the start-up of the WUP Project.
61.   Even if the notification protocols are formulated and agreed-upon, the MRC may not be
ready to review some types of proposed water uses for a number of years. For example, a
significant proposed use of dry season water from the mainstream would need to be evaluated
using the Basin Model Package and Knowledge Base (Component A), evaluated with respect to
Maintenance of Flows Rules (Component B.2. 1), and any other considerations contained in the
notification protocols. Nevertheless, the MRC should be able to agree on a complete set
notification protocols by the midL-tern of the WUP Project. A key performance indicator for the
WUP Project will be for the MRC to adopt a complete set of provisional notification and
consultation procedures within 3 years of the start-up of the WUP Project.
B.2 Physical Rules
B.2. 1 Maintenance of Flows on the Mainstream
62.   Article 6 of the Mekong Agreement calls for the maintenance of flows on the
mainstream. During the dry season, the flow should be "not less that the acceptable minimum
monthly natural flow during each month of the dry season." Wet season mainstream flows should
also be sufficient "to enable the acceptable natural reverse flow of the Tonle Sap to take place."
Establishing minimum flows based upon the natural flow regime is a key element of the
sustainable development of the Mekong River Basin and the protection of existing beneficial
uses. Evaluating alternative minimum flow regimes require extensive scientific, environmental,
and socio-economic analysis. The Basin Model Package and Knowledge Base, developed under
Component A of the WUP Project, will be used to evaluate the impacts of different minimum
flow regimes.
63.   With respect to the dry season flow rules, there are a number of specific items identified
in the Agreement (Article 26), including:
*  Specifying which months are subject to the dry season minimum  flow rules. For
example, March through May, or January through June.
* Establishing the locationl of the hydrological stations, and deternining the flow level
requirements at each station.
*  How to incorporate drought episodes into the dry season flow rules.
64.   During the wet season, the acceptable natural reverse flow is defined (Chapter 2) as:
*  The flow level in the Mekong River at Kratie that allows the reverse flow of the Tonle
Sap to an agreed optimun level of the Great Lake.
65.   During the WUJP Project preparation phase (1997), the MRC adopted the concept of
using the natural hydrograph and associated uses of water as the basis for formulating rules on
mainstream flows. Key considerations in this approach include:



39
*  Identifying beneficial uses of water and their linkages to the annual hydrograph. For
example, in-stream uses, such as navigation, salinity repulsion, and pollution dilution
require minimum water levels during the dry season.
*  The aquatic eco-system requires a minimum flow based on the natural flow during the
dry season.
*  Fish migration to spawning and rearing habitats are usually triggered by abrupt changes
in the flow regime, i.e., the rising and falling limbs of the annual hydrograph.
*  Preservation of wetlands and floodplains are essential to preserving aquatic productivity
and biodiversity, and are dependent on the wet season flow regime.
*  Dry season flows into the Mekong Delta are partly dependent on the amount of wet
season mainstream flows stored in the Tonle Sap.
66.   Understanding the flow regime of the Mekong River Basin in the most complete sense,
including temporal (seasonal and annual) and spatial (mainstream, tributaries, distributary,
wetland, floodplains) variations is the foundation for establishing minimum flow rules,
formulating the BDP, and the review of proposed water uses. A key performance indicator for the
WUP Project will be the publication of an MRC report on the "Hydrology, Water Quality, and
Beneficial Uses of the Mekong River Basin" within 3 years of start-up. This report will serve as
the foundation for rule-making related to minimum flows and water quality.
67.   The WUP strategy calls for an incremental, but comprehensive and integrated approach
to setting minimum flow rules. Because maintaining dry season flows is one of the most critical
management decision confronting the MRC, and the analysis of dry season flows is generally
more straight-forward than wet season flows, the Water Utilization Sub-Committee will focus on
setting dry season flow rules first. A key performance indicator for the VWUP Project will be for
the MRC to adopt a set of provisional dry season minimum flow rules within 4 years of the start-
up of the WUP Project.
68.   The hydrology and hydraulics of wet season flows is complicated by a number of factors.
Overbank flooding, flows into the Mekong delta, and reverse flows into the Tonle Sap during the
wet season require the use of sophisticated hydraulic models. Moreover, hydrological data in
Cambodia is sparse and a basic understanding of Tonle Sap hydrodynamics is lacking. Critical
knowledge gaps on the Tonle Sap include: i) the transfer function (and quantity) of reverse flows
from the mainstream into Tonle Sap; ii) contribution of Cambodian tributaries to Tonle Sap
storage during the wet season; and iii) volume, depth, and surface area curves for Tonle Sap.
Addressing these knowledge gaps will take time and sophisticated analysis, and thus the
establishment of wet season rules will take somewhat longer than dry season minimum flow
rules. A key performance indicator for the WUP Project will be for the MRC to adopt a set of
provisional wet season minimum flow rules within 6 years of the start-up of the WUP Project.
B.2.2 Water Quality Rules
69.   Water quality considerations will be an integral part of formulating protocols related to:
i) information and data exchange; ii) water use monitoring protocols; and iii) notification and
consultation protocols. Water quality considerations (salinity intrusion, pollution dilution, and



40
ecological water quality needs) will be an integral part of establishing minimum dry season flow
rules. A clear understanding andl categorization of the beneficial uses of the water resources of
the Basin, their water quality requirements. and the most critical water quality threats to these
beneficial uses are not well-known. :n general, point source pollution, such as municipal and
industrial wastewater discharges appear to be localized and not yet of major trans-boundary
concern. Diffuse non-point sources of water pollution, such as increased sediment loads and
agricultural run-off, may be more important but their significance is not well-understood. An
important step in addressing water quality concerns is to first characterize the problem. The
Project will support the publication of an MRC report on the "Hydrology, Water Quality, and
Beneficial Uses of the Mekong River Basin" within 3 years of Project implementation. This
report can serve as the foundation for water-quality rule-making.
C. Institutional Strengthening of NRC and NMC to Implement WUP
Cl Project and Program, Management Support and Capacity Building
70.   This Project will support the procurement of a long-term international consultant advisor
to the WUP management team who will assist in all aspects of WUP implementation and
coordination. The consultant will be an experienced international specialist in water resources
management as well as program management. The adviser will work with the WUP teams,
working groups, and national line agencies to provide technical assistance and on-the-job
training.  The consultant will identify problems and propose solutions, and will provide
continuous liaison with the Bank supervision team. The Project will also support short-term
consultants as needed in areas such as information systems, knowledge management,
environment, fisheries, hydrology, water quality, groundwater, modeling, negotiations, and water
law/rule making. These consultants will be brought in to assist in different key areas of Project
implementation when needed and will provide technical assistance to the working groups. In
order to retain maximum flexibility and in the spirit of trouble shooting, the needs for short-term
consultants will be defined during Project implementation.  The Project will finance the
procurement of office equipment, such as photo copy machines, fax machines, cellular phones,
etc.
C. 2 Technical Training end Capacity Building
71.   The Project will provide training to the WIP management teams, working groups, staff
from MRCS, NMCs and the national line agencies. At present, some NMCs and line agencies do
not have an effective capacity to meet the requirements of the WUP within their jurisdiction. The
Project will include in-country and overseas training (including with river basin organizations,
regional institutions, and other academics). There is also a need within MRCS to develop skills
and systems necessary to manage the WJT. The training will also include fostering of
development and implementation of policies supportive to the WUP.
C.3 Communications, Participation, and Public Awareness
72.   The participation of stakeholders in determnining the environmental, water use, social and
economic problems and needs wou.ld be a key aspect of knowledge base and model development
as well as rule making. The Project would support information campaigns, workshops, surveys
and other participatory exercises to promote interchange of ideas and enhanced mutual
understanding of different project-,related aspects with different stakeholders.



41
C. 4 Participation in GEE Regional and Global Programs
73.   The Project is an important initiative in the GEF's broader global strategic program in
international waters (IW). Thus it would support the participation of the MRC and its WUP
management teams in:
(a)    The ongoing IW Learn Program being implemented by UNDP, linking together
the GEF with all IW project teams to provide a modem electronic mechanism for experience
sharing and distance learning, and
(b)   The regional effort to concentrate the GEF IW portfolio in order to maximize its
strategic impact. Two regions are the Danube-Black Sea basins, and the South China Sea region.
In the latter region a major regional project involving three of the four Mekong riparian countries
(Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam) is at an advance stage of preparation by UNEP. The Project
would support the participation of the WUP management teams in the activities of the South
China Sea inter-governmental steering committee, technical committees, and major regional
meetings of GEF project teams in the other strategic regions and in the Global IW meetings of
UNDP.



42
Annex 3
MRC: Water Utilization Project
Project Costs
Project Component           Total   Local   Foreign  Foreign       Total
Cost    Costs   Cost %  Base Cost %
A. Basin Modeling and Knowledge Base   9.1     3.3      5.8      64%         61%
B. Rules for Water Utilization        1.2      0.6      0.6      51%         8%
C. Institutional Strengthening        4.7      3.7      1.0      21%         31%
Total Baseline Cost                   15.1     7.6      7.5      50%        100%
Price Contingencies (8%)            1.2      0.6      0.6
Total Cost                            16.3     8.2      8.1



43
Annex 4
MRC: Water Utilization Project
Incremental Cost Analysis
Regional Context and Broad Development Goals
1.    The 65 million inhabitants of the Mekong Basin depend to a great extent on the natural resources
of the Basin for their livelihood. Few of the economic benefits of the extraordinary economic growth that
occurred in the surrounding region of Southeast Asia in the last decade were experienced in the Basin.
Eighty-five percent of the Basin's population lives in rural area, of which a high proportion depend on the
river and aquatic ecosystem for an important part of their subsistence livelihood. Capture fisheries is the
major source of low-cost and high quality protein for the people of the Basin, and an important source of
employment and income in rural areas. Poverty is widespread, and the stress on the natural resources of
the Basin is increasing.
2.    Wetlands that are vital for the maintenance of the fishery and support globally significant bio-
diversity, depend on the annual ebb and flow of the Mekong River system to sustain these sensitive
ecological balance. Exploitation of these wetlands is increasing, and in some cases they are being drained
for cultivation. The prospect of increased water diversions and construction of dams on the Mekong
River and its tributaries also threaten the Basin's aquatic eco-system. Shifting cultivation and wide-
spread logging in the sensitive upland areas are degrading the watersheds, increasing erosion, and
modifying the hydrological regime.
3.   Economic growth is an imperative in the Basin, and water resources development is a key area in
each country's long-term investment program. In preparation for the MRC's Basin Development Plan
(BDP), the MRC-member governments prepared general position papers in 1997 on their country's
development needs in the Basin, as summarized below:
4.    Cambodia: Agricultural development through increased and improved irrigation, and improved
agricultural support systems (i.e., credit, extension, marketing, etc.) is a key development priority for
Cambodia. Maintenance of freshwater capture fisheries and navigation improvements are prominent
features of Cambodia's development program. Cambodia relies heavily on fisheries from the Mekong
River system-especially in the Great Lake (Tonle Sap), to support its mainly subsistence level rural
population. Navigation is the primary form of transportation in Cambodia due to its poorly developed
road and train system. Access to maritime shipping through the Mekong-Bassac River system is
important. The Cambodian government plans to develop small and medium-scale hydropower facilities
on tributaries to the Mekong River. Cambodia's forests remain generally intact, 'but are threatened by
illegal and unsustainable logging practices.
5.    Laos: The Lao government has ambitious plans to tap Laos' enormous hydropower potential,
particularly on tributaries to the Mekong. With a poorly developed transportation system, Laos relies on
inland navigation along the Mekong as its main transportation artery-maintenance of dry season flows in
the River is an important concern for the Lao government. Capture fisheries from the River is important.
The Lao government places a high priority on preserving the aquatic productivity of the Mekong Basin.
There is limited potential for small and medium scale irrigation development.
6.    Thailand: Thailand is the most economically advanced of the riparian countries, with a GNP per
capita of around $2,000, as compared with $200-$500 for the other riparians. However, the primary Thai
portion of the Mekong Basin, the Northeast of Thailand, is relatively undeveloped and its inhabitants are
only slightly more prosperous than the other Mekong countries. The Thai government has launched a



44
large-scale development program for the Northeast of Thailand, centered around irrigation development,
agro-processing, and reforestation. The government is considering the diversion of water from the
Mv:ekong River into the Northeast of Thailand, which is by far the driest part of the Mekong Basin and
suffers from periodic droughts. It also has tentative plans for the inter-basin diversion of water from
Idekong tributaries in the far north of Thailand, into the Chao Phraya Basin (where Bangkok is located).
The power demand in Thailand is expected to significantly expand in the future, and Thai power agencies
are considering importing energy from hydropower facilities in China and Laos. Thai travel companies
are increasingly using the Mekong River and its riparian areas as tourist destinations, including hotels,
golf courses, and boat rides.
'7.    Vietnam: The Mekong Delta is Vietnam's "rice bowl" and produces over half of the country's
sice crop and is a major fruit producer. Aquaculture, mainly in the Delta's numerous canals is an
important source of income and subsistence for many of the Delta's residents. During the wet season,
inassive flooding in the Delta results in annual loss of lives and property damage. Flood management is a
high priority for Vietnam. Improving agricultural water control infrastructure (e.g., irrigation, drainage,
and control of floods and of sea water intrusion) and maintaining (or increasing) dry season flows while
preserving water quality, are key development objectives for the Vietnamese government. Improvement
of the inland navigation system in the Delta is also important for Vietnam. The Mekong Basin also
encompasses part of the Vietnam Flighlands, and the Vietnamese government plans to construct (or is
constructing) a number of medium-sized hydropower projects.
8.     China and Mynamar: Neither China nor Mynamar are MRC-member states but their activities
mnay have an impact on the lower Mekong Basin states. China has started hydropower development on the
upper reaches of the Mekong River. Because the irrigation potential in the Chinese portion of the Mekong
B3asin is limited, these reservoirs should help regulate the flow and increase dry season flows into the
lower Basin. In the long-term, ChirLa may wish to export hydropower to and open up a navigation route
into mainland Southeast Asia. Mya.nmar currently has no plans to develop the water resources of its
portion of the Basin.
Baseline Scenario
9.    The "baseline scenario" describes the course of future activities by the countries in the absence of
(GEF support; i.e., if the countries do not take global environmental considerations into account. Two
levels of analysis are used for the baseline scenario. The higher level of analysis consists of a general
description of the environmental dangers and investments risks associated with each country pursuing its
own, uncoordinated water resource development activities. At a lower level, a review of theMRC's work
program, in the absence of GEF support, is presented. For practical reasons, the scope of analysis for
calculating incremental costs is limnited to the MRC's work program, which constitutes the de facto
baseline.
10.    The Strategic Problem of thie Mekong Riparian Countries. Each MRC-member country has an
economic and social development agenda in which the protection and development of water resources
plays an important, if not vital, role.. But each country is uncertain of the motives and plans of the other
riparian countries, and each country is concerned that plans and future opportunities not be foreclosed or
delayed by lack of agreement or uncoordinated development. Moreover, the riparian countries are
concemed that their citizens and vital ecological resources will not be harmed by the actions of the other
riparians. Changes in the flow pattern (flow, water level, quality, sediment load) and physical
modifications (river training, dams, dredging, flood protection works) brought about by proposed water
resources developments can have a major impact on the fragile social, economic and ecological systems
of the whole river basin. Rural economic development will eventually relieve this pressure, but in the
meantime, serious ecological and social damage could occur with the attendant increases in rural-urban



45
migration and poverty if the water resources of the Basin are not cooperatively and wisely planned and
managed with these concerns in mind.
11.   National Policies and Investment Plans. National and sector water policy actions in each of the
countries required to accelerate economic development and ensure that its economic impact is
environmentally and socially sustainable, are constrained by this uncertainty. Moreover, without clarity
on the ground rules for implementing the Mekong Agreement, particularly the provisions for notification
and consultation (Article 5), and maintenance of flows on the mainstream (Article 6), it is difficult in
some cases to mobilize external financial resources to undertake urgently needed investments in water
resources.
12.   The Baseline Program of MRC Secretariat. The MRCS Work Program has been reorganized in
accordance with the recently approved MRC Strategic Plan. Projects have been programmed into four
Key Result Areas (KRAs): Natural Resources Planning and Management; Environmental Management
and Social Considerations; Data Base and Information Systems; and Organization Management and
Cooperation. The complete MRCS 1999 portfolio includes 17 ongoing and fully funded projects which
total about US$36 million (including a US$18 million grant to upgrade ferry facilities in Cambodia), and
another 50 projects that are proposed or partly funded and total US$87 million, of which US$15 million
of funding has been secured from various bilateral and multilateral donor agencies. The total cost of the
MRC's proposed portfolio is therefore US$123 million ($36 + $87 million), and donor commitments total
US$51 million ($36 + $15). Historically, average annual expenditures (including projects) by the MRC
are around US$12 million.
13.   For the purposes of the GEF incremental cost analysis, the MRC's projects are divided into two
groups. The first group of projects deals with specific national investment projects, such as ferry facilities
or hydropower feasibility studies, and is not directly related to WUP and thus excluded from the
incremental cost analysis. The second group of MRC projects will, directly or indirectly, support the
GEF-financed WUP and thus constitutes the "baseline scenario costs". Table 1 summarizes projects in
the MRC portfolio that are related to the WUP (as well as the Basin Development Plan). None of these
projects, however, would integrate the results and outcomes of all the MRC's disparate studies and
projects, nor provide the comprehensive Basin analytical tools to use the information and knowledge
being developed through these projects. None of the projects in Table I focus on the core Basin
management functions of MRC or the implementation of the Agreement (except the proposed WUP and
BDP projects). Nevertheless, valuable knowledge, data and tools are being developed by some of these
projects.
Global Environmental Objectives and Benefits
14.   The global environmental objective of the Project is to prevent harm and irreversible loss of
water and ecological resources in the Mekong River Basin and related coastal and marine resources. The
Project is consistent with the policies and priorities of the GEF Water body-Based Operational Program
(OP#8), which aims to help countries manage water bodies and their multi-country drainage basins to
sustainably support human activities. The Project would help the MRC develop and use water utilization
rules and analytical tools necessary for sustainable management and development of water resources in
the Basin. Substantial specific global benefits would result in the protection of ecological resources and
in regional cooperation.
15.   (a) Ecological Resources. The Mekong Basin contains globally significant bio-diversity,
wetlands, flooded forests, and estuary system. The Basin supports one of the most productive and
biodiverse freshwater ecosystems in the world. Annual floods support a rich riparian habitat and an
extensive network of wetlands. Water flooding into nutrient rich areas, combined with high levels of solar
energy, help fuel a high-powered eco-system. There are estimated 1200 fish species in the Basin. Many



46
fish species in the Basin are highly migratory, but relatively little is known about the Basin's aquatic
ecology. The long-tenn sustainability of the Basin's fisheries is threatened by increasing harvests, habitat
degradation and water development projects that cut off migration corridors between spawning, nursery,
and adult habitats. Already a number of aquatic dependent species have been classified as rare or
endangered, including 18 species of waterbirds and 16 species of mamnmals. Important endangered
species include the Irrawaddy dolphin, the Chinese white dolphin, the black finless porpoise, the
freshwater giant catfish, and five waterbirds: the Eastern sarus crane, the giant ibis, the white-shouldered
ibis, the greater adjutant stork, and the lesser adjutant stork. There is little infornation about freshwater
turtles, tortoises and terrapins, but there are alrnost certainly several rare and endangered species in this
group.
16.   The heart of the Mekong Basin's ecosystem lies in the globally significant wetlands and flooded
forests in the Tonle Sap, the Plain of Reeds, and the Coastline Ecosystem. The Tonle Sap (also know as
the Great Lake of Cambodia) lies in the middle of Cambodia and is fed by runoff from its own sub-basin
and by reverse flows from the Mekong River cluring the wet season'. During the dry season the Tonle
Sap drains into the Mekong Delta, helping to combat seawater intrusion and maintain the Delta's
ecological balance, including extensive mangrove forests. During the wet season, theTonle Sap expands
from 2,500 km2 to over 10,000 km2, and supports an extensive flooded forest which provides ideal habitat
for fish spawning and nursing. Fish migrations from the Tonle Sap into the Mekong River help restock
fisheries as far upstream as China and. many tributary rivers along the way.
Ir.   The Plain of Reeds covers 7,000 km2 in Vietnam and 3,000 lan2 in Cambodia. It is subject to
seasonal flooding from the River system. During the peak flood period the Plain becomes a vast lake with
some areas flooded up to 4 meters. The flora is quite complex due to the high variety of flood regim.nes.
During the flood season, the Plain supports a large number of fish species which move from upstream
areas for breeding and nursing. A number of water birds, many winter migrants considered to be
threatened birds of the world, are supported in the Plain of Reeds.
18.    The estuaries in the Delta maintain important ecological processes such as transport of nutrients,
plankton, shrimp, fish larvae, and cletritus-all essential components in the aquatic food webs. The
estuaries of the Tien River (part of the Mekong River system) have been listed by IUCN as
internationally important wetlands. Many shrimp and fish species depend on the estuaries for their
breeding and nursing. Their migration and repioductive patterns are strongly influenced by river water
flow and tidal regimes. The estuaries of the Delta also support rich mangrove forests.
19.   (b) Regional Cooperation. Cooperative and integrated management of trans-boundary water
resources of international river basins is one of the most pressing current problems in sustainable natural
resources management. The earth's largest reserves of accessible and usable freshwater resources are
contained in its more than 200 trans-boundary lake and river systems. In nearly two-thirds of these
systems, a wide variety of agreements are being implemented and monitored by international river Basin
organizations. Their success is critic;al not only to the protection and wise use of these water resources,
but to securing the broader social and economic benefits of cooperation and water use. The Mekong is
one of the largest international river basins in the developing world to have reached the stage of creating a
comprehensive Agreement for sustainable management of shared resources. Moving from the agreement
on principles to actual cooperation and sustainable management of water resources has proven to be an
elusive and difficult goal, not only in the Mekong Basin but elsewhere in the world. A timely and
catalytic intervention by GEF, carefuilly coordinated with other key donors such as UTNDP, offers the
opportunity to demonstrate globally how this difficult but critical transition can be made.
Cambodia, with both theTonle Sap and Plan of Reeds has an estimated 5% of Asian wetlands of international importance, as estimated by IUCN



47
GEF Alternative
20.   The baseline scenario described above would do little to mitigate the increasing risks to, and
relieve the development pressures on, the ecological resources of the Basin. In spite of the extensive
information on the Mekong garnered through the MRC's past projects, the MRC has been unable to
utilize this information to make sound water resource management decisions. The Project would address
this critical gap by developing Basin-wide and integrated tools and the related knowledge base to enable
the riparian countries to gain a deeper understanding of the hydrologic linkages between the natural
environment, water utilization, and strategic trans-boundary water and environmental issues. The Project
would also support a consultative process to formulate and implement appropriate procedures, guidelines
and rules to ensure reasonable and equitable water use. These rules, and the corresponding procedures
and analytical tools for their implementation, provide the essential framework for sustainable and
equitable water resource management in the Basin.
21.   The linkages between cooperative Basin management and sustainable national water policy and
strategies will be strengthened under the project by directly involving national stakeholders including the
respective NMCs and national institutions concerned with water and natural resource sector. The MRCS
and each riparian would have a complete package of analytical tools and information systems and the
capacity to use them. The protocols on data and information exchange to be developed and implemented
under the project would provide procedures and rules, under which these systems would be jointly
maintained and updated. The proposed project would thus addresses the key existing barriers to effective
regional cooperation needed to promote and support the adoption of national policies and strategies that
are consistent with the protection and enhancement of the globally significant natural resource base of the
Basin. The proposed GEF Alternative includes three components (see Annex 2 for details):
*  Basin Model Package and Knowledge Base. The incremental cost is $9.9 million, of which
the GEF is asked to fund $6.6 million.
*  Development of the Rules for Water Utilization. The incremental cost is $1.3 million, of
which the GEF is asked to fund $ 1.1 million.
*  Institutional Strengthening of the MRC and NMCs to Implement WUP. The incremental cost
is $5.1 million, of which the GEF is asked to fund $3.3 million.
22.   Related GEF Investments and Programs. The Project is an important initiative in the GEF's
broader global strategic program in international waters. It would support the participation of the MRC,
specifically the WUP management teams in the MRCS and the NMCs, in two aspects of this global
program:
(a) The ongoing International Waters (IW) Learn project, being implemented by UNDP, links
together GEF intemational waters project teams for experience sharing and provide a modern electronic
mechanism for distance learning. The project would support the participation of the MRCS and NMC
WUP teams in this global project.
(b) The GEF has selected several regions to concentrate its IW portfolio to maximize GEF's
strategic impact. Two areas are the Danube-Black Sea Basins, and the South China Sea region. In the
latter region a major regional project involving three of the four lower Mekong riparian countries
(Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam) is at an advance stage of preparation by UNEP. The project would
support the participation of the MRCS and NMC WUP teams in the activities of the South China Sea
inter-governmental steering committee and the issue oriented technical committees being established.
The project would also support the participation of the WUP teams in major regional meetings of GEF
projects in the other strategic regions and in the Global IW meetings being planned by UNDP.



48
Incidental Domestic Benefits
23.    In addition to the global benefits described above, the Project would also generate significant
incidental domestic benefits for the MRC-member countries. Following the review procedures
established under the Project, and with the new analytical tools and knowledge base, countries could
implement projects with more confidence that they will not harm other countries nor endanger sensitive
ecological resources. The Project would also help build technical capacity and databases, as well as
owtnership, in the national line agencies and NM\Cs which participate in the Project. This will help the
national agencies play a more supporlive role in the MRC, as well as formulate efficient and sustainable
water and natural resource policies at the national level.
Incremental Costs
24.    To summary the above sections, the incremental costs required to achieve the stated global
environmental benefits is US$16.3 million, of whiich US$11 million is sought from GEF:
Project Component                               Incremental       GEF Fund         Country
Cost                         Contributions
A. Basin Model Package & Knowledge Base             9.9              6.6             3.3
B. Development of Rules for Water Utilization       1.3              1.1              0.2
C Institutional Strengthening of MRCS/NMC           5.1              3.3              1.8
Total                                              16.3             11.0             5.3
25   Table 2 summarizes the incremental cost assessment.
Table 2. Summary Incremental Cost Assessment Matrix
Baseline Scenario                Alternative
Global               None                              Protection of globally significant
Environmental                                          ecological resources: biodiversity
Benefit                                                conservation (fish, waterbirds,
aquatic mammals, etc.)
Globally significant eco-systems:
Tonle Sap, Plain of Reeds, Delta
estuary
Example of cooperative and
coordinated international water
resource management.
Domestic Benefit     Data on hydrology, fisheries,     Multi-purpose and coordinated water
navigation, watersheds, mapping,  resource management in the Mekong
wetlands, etc.                   Basin.
Single sector, national          Strengthened water and natural
management strategies for        resource management capacity at the
fisheries, navigation, irrigation,  national level and in the MRC.
and hydropower.
Reduction of international conflicts
over water in the Mekong Basin.
Costs                Baseline                                94.4
Alternative                           110.6
Increment                              16.2
(GEF)                                  11.0



Table 1. MRCS BASELINE PROGRAM
Component                   Project                        Project                        Ongoingi Cost                Funding                     SOF
Code                                                          Planned       US$mil        Secured    |Sought
A - Basin Modeling Package and Knowledge Base
A.1 Information and Knowledge Base     3.19/95     Inland Fisheries Information System                 Planned        2.60                       2.60
-3.01/98    Improvement of Documentation Center                Planned         0.10                       0.09
.3.13/92    Improvement of Hydro-meteorological Network         Ongoing         4.26          2.48         0.82      Aus; Japan
3.03/97    Integrated GIS and Statistical Databases for NRM    Planned         1.09                       0.99
3.07/97    Land Resources Inventory                            Ongoing         1.23         0.37          0.65      Japan
2.50/93    Watershed classification                            Ongoing         3.00         2.60                    Swiss
2.49/92    Mekong forest cover monitorng                       Ongoing         4.17         4.06                    Germany
A,2 Basin Modeling Package             3.43/87     Updating of hydrographic atlas, survey, mapping     Ongoing         7.66         6.96                    Finland
2.11/97    Mekong morphology and sediment transport            Planned         0.51                       0.49
2.36/95    Model for salinization studies in Lower Mekong Basin  Planned       1.60                       1.30
2.49/96    Chaktomuk area environment, hydraulic and           Planned         0.58                       0.58                          4
morphology
3.14/96    Upgrading of salinity forecasting in Delta          Planned         0.63                       0.45
3.09/94    Flood forecasting/damage reduction study            Planned         3.29         0.25          2.83      Denmark
A.3 Environment, Economic, and Social   1.02/96    Assessment of Mekong Fisheries                      Ongoing         5.75         5.21                    Denmark
Transboundary Analysis             1I.17/95    Support to fisheries management and development    Ongoing          1.09          1.06                   Denmnark
cooperation
1.13/88    Management of reservoir fisheries                   Ongoing         3.84         3.49                    Denmark
1.16/94    Rural extension for aquaculture in Mekong Delta     Ongoing         2.08          1.89                   Denmark
1.21/96    Management of freshwater capture fishery (Cambodia)  Planned        4.86                       4.18
1.03/98    Management of reservoir fisheries (II)              Planned         5.35                       4.71
1.20/94    Watershed management strategy study                 Ongoing         0.21         0.20                    Swiss
1.51/92    Sustainable NRM in Lower Mekong Basin               Ongoing         4.80         4.30                    Germany
1.42/96    Soil and water conservation in small watersheds     Planned         0.97                       0.80
1.37/95    Management of salt-affected soils on Lower Mekong   Planned         0.60                       0.40
3.13/92    Inventory of Cambodian wetlands (I)                 Ongoing         2.00          1.80                   Denmark
2.03/98    Wetland conservation in the Lower Mekong Basin      Planned         2.80                       2.50
2.01/98    Integration of social/econ/poverty consid into MRC  Planned         1.30                       1.20



Table 1. MRCS BASELINE PROGRAM
Component                      Project                            Project                            Ongoing/           Cost         Funding                         SOF
Code                                                                 Planned         US$mil          Secured        Sought
2.02/98     Community involvement in water resource                    Planned          3.35                           3.10
development_____
2.19/97     Basin-wide water borne disease management project          Planned           1.24-        ___              0.98_
2.01/95     Environrnent program                                      Ongoing           13.62           8.14          4.60        Denmark;
_ar
Sub-totals                       84.58           42.81         33.27
B. Development of Rules
- _      _               _  4.01/98       Preparation of framework Mekong Navigation                Planned           0.75                       |  0.66-
i                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~Agreement
_ __   2.04/98 Comparative study of environmlent law in MRB            P]anned          0.25                          0.25      .
_=~~~~~4.19 =RfrMC                                                                                  - _____ .- .--__                                      ______1_ 
tionag lluo Strengt^sening ofy  RCSv 1and NMsxt
__ _____   _   __    4.01/97  IIRD for MRC.S                           Planned          7.67            0.83     -    6.27        I NDP,Var
_    4_ 4.45/94   Training on legal aspects of WRM (MRCS)                   Ongoinig          0.68           0.25           0.35       Japan
4.02/98     Project Management                                        Ongoing            0.2            0.02           0.18             .  _.
4.03/98     Financial Management                                       Planned           0.3                           0.3
Sub-totals                        8.85           1.10           7.10
TOTAL           9_ s.                         43.91          41.28



51
Annex 5
MRC: Water Utilization Project
Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management
Procurement
The Bank guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995,
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) would be applied to GEF-
financed procurement of goods. Contracts for consulting services would be procured in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999 (Consultant Guidelines). The goods and services not financed by GEF will be
procured in accordance with national regulations of the riparians or regulations of the parallel co-
financing institutions. MRCS' Division Finance and Administrationwould be responsible for all
procurement. This would include preparation of tender documents, obtaining clearance from the
Bank as required, evaluation of bids, preparation of contracts, and purchase. Bank Standard
Bidding Documents, Bid Evaluation Form and Request For Proposals will be used for GEF-
financed contracts. The procurement profile is shown in Table A.
Goods (office and modeling equipment) with an estimated cost of US$0.78 million are
expected to be procured through international shopping based on at least tlhree price quotations.
Technical Assistance of US$6.8 million would be carried out by teams of consultants to
assist in basin modeling, knowledge base management and drafting of rules and related studies.
Consultancy contracts with firms for all contracts overUS$100,000 would be based on 'Quality
and Cost-Based Selection' procedures following the Consultant Guidelines, with an aggregated
amount of US$5.3 million. All consulting assignments overUS$200,000 would be advertised in a
General Procurement Notice in the Development Business and a national newspaper of each MRC
member country, requesting expression of interests, prior to short-listing of consultants. Consultant
assignments under US$200,000 may use shortlists made up of national firms from the MRC
member countries pursuant to part 2.7 of the consultant Guidelines. For small contracts, less than
US$100,000, selection based on consultants' qualifications would be used, or with prior approval
by the Bank, "single source selection" procedures may be used. The procedures for appointmnent
of individual consultants to carry out legal advisory and expert panel functions would follow
Section V of the Consultant Guidelines. Training, study tours, consultation workshops and
incremental staffing of US$3.4 million would be reimbursed based on programs agreed with the
Bank.
Bank Prior Review (Table B) would apply to GEF-financed goods and services with a
total value of IJS$8.32 million, covering over 76% of the total GEF-financed contract value. The
prior review is US$150,000 for goods, US$100,000 for consulting services through firms and
US$50,000 for consulting services through individuals. Sole-source selection, terms of reference
for all assignments regardless of their value and GEF-financed training programs would also be
subject to Bank prior review. All other procurements would be subject to ex-post review on a
sample basis during supervision. The first goods contract regardless of value will have prior
review.



52
Disbursement
To avoid delays in Project imple]mentation, retroactive financing of US$0.5 million is
included to cover payment made between appraisal and the signing of the Grant Agreement. This
will include primarily recruitment of the WUP team leader, international advisers and support staff
of the WUP unit for initiating WIJP activities. MRCS will follow Bank procurement guidelines.
The grant would be disbursed over a period of 7 years. A Special Account in US dollars
to be operated by MRCS would be set up in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, with an
authorized allocation of $0.5 million (equal to GEF-financed average expenditure for 4 months).
MRCS would submit to the Bank applications for replenishment monthly or whenever the amount
is drawn down by 20% of the authorized allocation, whichever comes first. The minimum
application size, outside of replenishment to the Special Account will be 20% of the authorized
allocation.  MRCS would reirnburse NMC's for MRCS approved travels and workshops
expenditures and use SOEs for reimbursement from the Project. The Project is to be completed in
December 31, 2006, and the grant is to be closed on June 30, 2007. The allocation of grant
proceeds is shown in Table C.
Statements of expenditure (SOE) would be required for disbursements to be made against
(a) contracts for goods costing less thaii $150,000; (b) expenses for training, study tours,
consultation workshops; (c) consultant services costing less than $100,000 for finns and less than
$50,000 for individuals; and (d) expenses for incremental operating costs. SOE would be subject
to sample post-review. MRCS would retain all supporting documents and make available for
review by Bank supervision missions. In the case of contracts for goods and services above these
thresholds, disbursements would be made against the full documentation of the contracts and
supporting documents.
Financial Management
A financial management assessment of the MRCS was carried out by Price Water-house &
Coopers (PWC) to ascertain whether the FM system comply with the requirements of OP/BP
10.02. The PWC report concludles that the financial management systems at the secretariat are
sufficient to control and monitor the financial operations of MRCS.
MRCS is largely a donor funded organization. As a result of having to control and monitor
donor funds, the MRCS has in place a comprehensive system of controls to ensure that funds are
fully and accurately accounted for. The finance function is headed by a Finance Director, assisted
by a Chief Accountant and subordinate accounting staff. Separate project accounts are maintained
to account and report for differenit donor funds. All accounting records are closed monthly, i.e. 15
days after the end of the month. Bank reconciliations are prepared and these are reviewed by the
Chief Accountant and approved by the Finance Director. At the end of each quarter, Income and
Expenditure Statements and fund balance statements are produced for each fund managed for
reporting to the donors.
The current accounting policies and procedures and the computerized accounting system
was established in 1993. As the computerized system is not Y2K compliant, a new system is being
developed by MRCS. It is expected that the new system will be operational by early year 2000.
After appraisal, MRCS submitted to the Bank a revised Finance Manual that is tailored to
implementation under the proposed Project.



53
Accounting and Funds Flow.  Project expenditures will be separately recorded and
reported by MRCS based on separate project accounts to be maintained. MRCS will establish a
separate bank account to facilitate receipts and disbursements of the project funds. Procedures for
receipt and disbursement of funds from parallel co-financiers will be in accordance with separate
bi-lateral agreements with each of the parallel co-financiers. Similarly, separate bank accounts will
be established to receive and disburse funds of co-financiers and contributing national
govemments. Contributions from national govemments and MRCS will be in the form of
personnel, office facilities and overhead, which will be handled through normal budgeting and
administrative procedures.
Given MRCS' long experience in dealing with donor funded activities, the Project should
be eligible for PMR-based (Project Management Reports) disbursement. However, as the current
accounting system is not Y2K compliant, there is a risk that MRCS may not be able to prepare
timely reports until the new system being developed is fully installed, tested and operational.
Therefore, PMR-based disbursement is not recommended. The Bank and MRCS will review the
disbursement methodology by December 31, 2000 when a determination could be made to switch
to PMR-based disbursement.
Reporting. MRCS will be responsible for preparing quarterly PMRs. The PMRs will be
based on formats as described in the Bank's LACI Handbook. The formats will be agreed with
MRCS prior to negotiations. MRCS will prepare annual financial statements in accordance with
intemational standards for accounting. The annual project financial reports will include, at a
minimum, Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds Statement, a Project Balance Sheet at the year
end, comparative figures from the previous year and notes to the financial statements.
Auditing. MRCS will appoint an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank before
Project effectiveness. The auditor will be responsible for the annual audit of the project accounts,
providing an opinion on the eligibility of the expenses disbursed on the basis of SOEs and
transactions on the Special Account. The audited financial statements together with audit reports
for SOE and the SA will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the Project's
fiscal year. The audit will be conducted in accordance with international standards for auditing and
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.



54
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ millioh equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Methods /a             Total Cost
IS     QCBS       CQ     Other   NGF    (including
contingency)
1. Goods
(a) Office equipment                     0.18      -                 -                  0.18
(0.16)                                         (0.16)
(b) Modeling/knowledge base equipment    0.60      -         -       -                  0.60
(0.54)                                         (0.54)
2. Services
(a) TA                                    -      5.33      1.53      -                  6.86
(5.33)    (1.53)                      (6.86)
(b) Training/workshops/                   -        -         -      2.49                2.49
Consultations                                                   (2.49)              (2.49)
3. Incremental operating costs               -        -         -      0.93                0 93
(0.93)              (0.93)
GEF Total  0.70      5.33      1.53    3.42                10.98
Donor Parallel Co-Financing                                                     2.80       2.80
NMC Counter-Part                                                                1.24        1.24
MRC Counter-Part                                                                1.25       1.25
5.30
Total                                                                                      16.28
(10.98)
a]    IS= International shopping  _'BS = Consultant services procured under Quality and Cost-Based Selection.
g= Selection of individual consultants based on qualifications (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines) Other =
training and workshops NGF= Non-GEF Financing



55
Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ million)
Expenditure     Contract Value    Procurement   Contracts Subject   Total Value
Category         US$'000          Method la   to Prior Review /b  Subject to Prior
Threshold                                            Review
1. Goods               >150               IS               All              0.78
<150              IS              None              0.00
Subtotal                                                           0.78
2. Services         Finns>100           QCBS              All               5.33
Individuals >50       CQ                All              1.53
Subtotal                                                           6.86
3. Training             All              CQ                All              0.68
al IS = Intemational Shopping. QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection CQ = Selection based on Consultant's
Qualifications.
b/ To be financed by GEF.
- Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category                  Amount       Financing Percentage
(US$ million)          (%)
I. Goods                                0.7            100% foreign
100% ex-factory
85% locally procured
II. Consulting services                 6.9               100%
III. Travel, Training, Consultations    2.5               100%
IV. Incremental operating costs         0.9        100%, 75%, 50%, 25%
Total                                   11.0



56
Annex 6
MRC: Water Utilization Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
PCD                                            78                    110
Final                                         307                    340
B. Project Schedule                              Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          9                     13
First Bank mission (reconnaissance)                n.a.                 1/17/98
Identification mission                             n.a.                 5/14/98
PCD Review                                       1/12/99                1/12/99
Preappraisal mission                              1/99                  1/16/99
Appraisal mission departure                       4/99                  4/4/99
Negotiations                                      7/99                  11/1/99
Planned Board Date                                9/99                  2/7/00
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/31/99
Prepared by: Mekong River Cornmission (MRC)
Preparation assistance: GEF-PDF
Bank task team who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
M. Xie                      Water Management (Task Team Leader)
D. Olson                          Water Resources Engineering
W. Garvey                             Lead Water Specialist
S. Shen                                    Ecology
W. Wickrema                            Financial Management
G. Browder                               Water Resources
K. Hudes                                     Legal
C. Dharnajaya                              Task Assistant



57
Annex 7
MRC: Water Utilization Project
Documents in Project File
A. Project Documents:
Global Environmental Facility (GEF) WUP Project:
Project Proposal to the MRC-JC (August 1998)
Mekong River Commission "Water Utilization Program Preparation"
Final Report (December 1998)
Mekong River Commission "Water Utilization Project"
Draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP, December 1999)
Including Annexes:
A      Project Description
B      Detailed Cost Estimates
C      MRC Strategic Plan and Trans-boundary Analysis
D      GEF Incremental Costs Analysis
E      Procurement Plan
F      Implementation Schedule
G      Performance Indicators
H      Terms of References
I      Participation Plan
J      Procurement Manual
K      Business Finance Plan
L      Parallel Co-Financing Proposals
B. Bank Staff Assessments:
Identification Mission Aide-memoire: May 1998
Project Concept Document (PCD): January 12, 1999
Pre-appraisal Mission Aide-memoire: January 29, 1999
Appraisal Mission Aide-memoire: April 13, 1999
Follow-up Mission Back-to-Office Report: July 7, 1999
Map: Mekong River Basin: Project Location - IBRD 30089



Annex 8
Status of Bank Group Operations in Thailand
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                      and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects; 110
A_tive Pru;ects
TH-PE-56269      1999                                      SOCIAL. TNVEST PIROJ                    300.00         0.00        0.00             266.09        46.24        0.00
TH-PE-53616      1998                                     E'IN SEC IMPL ASST                        15.00        0.00         0.00               9.73         7.75        0.00
TH-PE-54799      1998                                     ECO MGT IMPLE ASSIST                      15.00        0.00         0.00              12.56        10.56        0.00
TH-PE-31086      1997   METROPOLITAN ELECTRICITY          METROPOL'N DIST REIN                     145.00        0.00         0.00             113.28        13.29        0.00
Til-PE-42268     1997   PEA                               DISTR AUTOM & RELIA                      100.00        0.00         0.00               99.86       64.89       42.47
TH-PE-4805       1997   GOVT OF THATT.AND                 UNIVER SCI   ENG.DU                     113.40         0.00        0.00             131.29        53.89        0.00
T1J-PE-4791      1996   GOVT OF THAILAND                  SEC.EDUC. QUALITY IM                      81.90        0.00         0.00              74.77        44.88        0.00
TH-PE-4793       1996   GOVT OF THAILAND                  TECHNICAL EDUCATION                       31.60        0.00         0.00              31.13        27.53        0.00
TH-PE-4800       1996   GOV. OF TIIAILAND                 HIGHWAYS V                               150.00        0.00        45.00             100.13       145.13       15.28
TH-PE-4799       1995   EGAT                              LAM TAKHONG PUMP STO                     100.00        0.00         0.00              42.50        35.48        0.00
TH-PE-4802       1995   BANGCHAK PETROLEUM PCL            CLEAN FUELS & EA QUA                      90.00        0.00         0.00              57.47        57.47        0.00
TH-PE-4803       1995   RTG                               LAND TITLING III                         118.10        0.00         0.00              59.26        42.75        0.00
TH-PE-4796       1993   METRO ELEC AUTHORITY              DISTRIB. SYS & EGY E                     109,00        0.00         2.81               8.41        11.21        8.40                   OC
Total                                                                                            1,399.00        0.00        47.81           1,002.48      561.05        66.15
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  348.68             5,721.13            6,069.81
of which has been repaid:                   10.75            3,296.55             3,307.30
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                1,340.44             2 428.01            3,768.45
Anount sold                                         0.00              196.'13              196.73
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               196.73              196.73
Total Undisbursed                 :            1,002.48                 3.15            1,005.63
a. Intended disbursements to date minius actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



Annex 8
Status of Bank Group Operations in Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Origirial Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID     Year               Burrower                      Purpose
IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 17
Active Projects
LA-PE-42237      1999   LAO PDR                           LA-PROVIN. INFRAST.                        0.00       27.80         0.00              26.77         -.45         0.00
LA-PE-59305      1999   GOL                               LA DIST UPLAND DEV                         0.00        2.00         0.00               2.01          .33         0.00
LA-PE-44973      1998                                     SOUTHERN PROVINCE RE                       0.00       34.70         2.00              33.42         1.20         0.00
LA-PE-4210       1997   GOVT. OF LAO PDR                  HTGHWAY IMPROV. III                        0.00       48.00         0.00              35.79        13.40         0.00
LA- PE-44208     1996   GOVT. OF LAO PDR                  LAND TITLINC                               0.00       20.70         0.00              16.41         2.38         0.00
LA-PE-4200       1995   LAO PDR                           HEALTH SYS. REF. & M                       0.00       19.20         0.00              12.29         7.96         0.00
LA-PE-4196       1994   GOVT OF LAOS                      FOREST MGT & CONSERV                       0.00        8.70         0.00               6.01         6.13         0.00
LA-PE-4201       1994   GOVT OF LAOS                      H'WAY IMPROVE II                           0.00       30.00         0.00               3.22         1.72         0.00
LA-PE-4207       1994   GOVT OF LAO PDR                   LUANG NAMTIIA PROV DE                      0.00        9.6/         0.00               2.84          .15         0.00
LA-PE-4203       1993   LAO PDR                           EDUCATION DEVETOPMEN                       0.00       19.00         0.00               6. 11        4.03         0,00
Total                                                                                                0.00      219.77         0.00             145.53        36.85         0.00
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed  (TBRD and IDA):                   68.'19             336.69               405.48
ot which has been repaid:                    0.00                 6.74                6.74
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  219.77               320.79               540.56
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :              145.53                 1.41               146.94
a. Tntended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



Annex 8
Status of Bank Group Operations in Vietnam
Operations Portfolio
As of 1 2-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
'Original Amount in USS Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 4
Active Proiects
VN-PE-4828      1999   SOC REP OF VIET NAM              HIGHER EDUC.                              0.00      83.30        0.00              82.11        3.00        0.00
VN-PE-4833      1999    OF, GOVERNMENT OF VIETNA       URB TRAN IMPROVEMENT                      0.00       42.74        0.00             41.54        2.22         0.00
VN-PE-4845      1999   GOV                              MEKONG DELTA WATER                        0.00     101.80        0.00              97.42        0.00        0.00
VN-PE-51553     1999   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIE        SANITATION                                0.00      80.50         0.00             79.49        0.00         0.00
VN-PE-45628    1998   GOV                               TRANSMISSION & DISTR                      0.00     199.00         0.00            190.32      101.31        0.00
VN-Pr-4839      1998   GOVT OF VIET NN-                 FOREST PROT.& RUL DE                      0.00      21.50        0.00              20.49        2.79        0.00
VN-PE-4843      1998   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  INLAND WATERWAYS                         0.00      73.00        0.00              70.57        5.95        0.00
VN-PE-4844      1998   GOV                              AGRI DIVERSIFICATION                      0.00       66.85       0.00              65.88        2.50        0.00
VN-PE-39021     1997   GOV'T OF VIET NAM                RURAL TRANSPORT                           0.00       55.00       0.00              30.32        3.12        0.00
VN-PE-4830      1997   GOV                              WATER SUPPLY                              0.00      98.61        0.00              89.91       32.01        -.44
VN-PE-4842      1997   GOVT OF VIET NAM                 HIGHWAY REHAB II                         0.00      195.60        0.00             159.87       54.89        0.00
VN-PE-36042     1996   SOC. REP. OF VIETNAM             BANKING SYSTEM MODER                      0.00      49.00        0.00              42.97       45.95         1.79
VN-PE-42236     1996   GOVT. OF VIETNAM                 POWER DEV                                0.00      180.00        0.00               5.69          .54       0.00
VN-PE-4838      1996   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIE        NATIONAL HEALTH SUPP                     0.00      101.20        0.00              75.60       19.13        0.00
VN-PE-4841      1996   SOC REP OF VIET NAM              POPULATION & FAMILY                      0.00       50.00        0.00              31.80       11.10        0.00
VN-PE-4847      1996   GOV                              RURAL FINANCE                             0.00     122.00         0.00             48.84       28.61        0.00
VN-PE-4834      1995   GOV                              IRRIGATION REHABILIT                     0.00      100.00        0.00              63.22       15.45        0.00
VN-PE-4836      1995   EVN PC2 PC3                      POWER SECTOR REHAB &                     0.00      165.00        0.00              26.84       41.98      -37.00
VN-PE-4832      1994   GOVT OF VIET NAM                 HIGHWAY REHAB                            0.00      158.50        0.00              48.72       53.04       41.56
VN-PE-4835      1994   SOC REP OF VIET NAM              PRIMARY EDUCATION                        0.00       70.00        0.00              29.56       21.44        2.32
Total                                                                                            0.00   2,013.60         0.00           1,301.16      445.03        8.23
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 609.39             342.27              951.66
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                6.87                6.87
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              2,013.60              333.83            2,347.43
Amount sold                     :                 0.00               0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :            1,301.16                2.20            1,303.36
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



Annex 8
Status of Bank Group Operations in Cambodia
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 2
Active Projects
KH-PE-4030      1999   GOVT OF CAMBODIA                 KH-RD REHABIT.                            0.00      45.31         0.00             43.22        0.00         0.00
KH-PE-50601     1999                                    KH-SOCIAL FUND II                         0.00      25.00         0.00             23.95         1.00        0.00
KH-PE-58841     1999   CAMBODIA                         KH NORTHEAST VILLAGE                      0.00       5.00         0.00              4.82          .50        0.00
KH-PE-45629     1998   CAMBODIA                         URBAN WATER SUPPLY                       0.00       30.96         0.00             27.05        6.62         0.00
KH-PE-4033      1997   GOVT OF CAMBODIA                 AGRI.PRODUCT IMP.                         0.00       27.00        0.00             24.17       13.80          .98
KH-PE-4034      1997   KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA              DISEASE CONTROL&HEAL                      0.00      30.40         0.00             21.82       10.72         0.00
KH-PE-4032      1996   KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA               PHNOM PEHN POWER REH                     0.00      40.00         0.00              4.25         9.17        0.00
KH-PE-34755     1995   GOVT. OF CAMBODIA                TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      0.00       17.00        0.00              3.02         3.56        0.00
KH-PE-37088     1995   KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA               SOCIAL FUND                              0.00       20.00        0.00                .16        1.62        0.00
Total                                                                                             0.00     240.67         0.00            152.46       46.99          .98
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  72.65              101.77              174.42
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 240.67              102.70             343.37
Amount sold                                       0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              152.46                0.00              152.46
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



62
Annex 8
Thailand
STATENMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jul-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1979/81/84/87/91       Siam City              16.16    0.00    0.00   24.24   16.16    0.00    0.00    24.24
1984/91                SEAVI Thailand          0.00     1.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.46    0.00      0.00
1987/96               HMC Polymers             0.00    3.92      .36    0.00    0.00    3.92      .36     0.00
1988                  Peroxythai               3.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.51    0.00    0.00       0.00
1989                   SCB-CKAP                0.00     .41    0.00    0.00    0.00       .41    0.00     0.00
1989                   SCB-Thai Baroda         0.0()    .78    0.00'   0.00    0.00       .78    0.00     0.00
1989                   TFB-Ladprao             0.00      .33    0.00    0.00    0.00      .33    0.00     0.00
1989                  TFB-Top Easy             0.0(     .15    0.00    0.00    0.00       .15    0.00     0.00
1990                   Siam Asahi              0.0(    7.69    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.37    0.00       0.00
1990/95                Shin Ho Paper           4.83    7.54    0.00    5.27    4.83    7.54    0.00       5.27
1991                   VIM Thailand            0.0(    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1991/9.3/96/98        Ayudhya Leasing         10.0(    2.42    0.00    0.00   10.00    2.42    0.00       0.00
1992                   Krung Thai IBJ          0.0(     .35    0.00    0.00    0.00       .35    0.00     0.00
1993                   Advance Agro           10.0(    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1993                   Bumrungrad             25.00    2.24    0.00   29.00   25.00    2.24    0.00    29.00
1993                   Central Hotel           0.00    13.95    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.95    0.00      0.00
1993                   Samui Beach             1.93    0.00    0.00    3.21    1.93    0.00    0.00       3.21
1993                   Star Petroleum         86.6)1    0.00    0.00  276.50   86.61    0.00    0.00   276.50
1993                   Sukhontha               1.29    0.00    0.00    3.21      1.29    0.00    0.00     3.21
1993                  TUNTEX                  11.28    4.92    0.00   92.00   11.28    4.92    0.00    92.00
1994                  Dhana Siam              18.58    0.00    0.00    2.86   18.58    0.00    0.00       2.86
1994                  Vinythai                33.05    0.00    0.00   41.54   33.05    0.00    0.00    41.54
1995                  Finance One             30.00    0.00    0.00  132.40   30.00    0.00    0.00   132.40
1995                   Saha Farms             25.00    9.90   10.00   25.00   25.00    9.90   10.00    25.00
1995                  UPOIC                    0.0(     1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00      0.00
1995/96/98             BTSC                   80.00    9.83    9.83    0.00   64.14    9.83    9.83       0.00
1996                  NFS                     17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.50    0.00    0.00       0.00
1996                   Thai Petrochem         76.67    0.00   20.00  383.33   76.67    0.00   20.00   383.33
Total Portfolio:                  451.41   66.97   40.19  1,018.   435.55   65.65   40.19  1,018.56
56
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                  NFS                     10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          10.00D   0.00    0.00    0.00



63
Annex 8
Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Jul-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  SEF BAFCO                 .77    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  SEF Endeavor             .15    0.00    0.00    0.00      .15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  SEF Settha               1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    1.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.15    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Conmmitmnent
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Conmmitment:          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



64
Annex 8
Vietnam
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jul-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                  Hanoi Metropole         3.67    0.00    3.50   12.12    3.67    0.00    3.50   12.12
1995                  Baria Serece Prt        2.25    0.00    0.00    1.18    2.25    0.00    0.00    1.18
1995                  Foremost Dairy          5.60    0.00    0.00    4.55    5.60    0.00    0.00    4.55
1996                  Kyoei Steel             12.86    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.86    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Morn.Star Cement       30.00    0.00    0.00   64.61   30.00    0.00    0.00   64.61
1996                  Sucre de Bourbon       22.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   22.00    0.00    0.00   20.00
1996                  SMH Glass Co.           10.00    0.00    0.00    4.50   10.00    0.00    0.00    4.50
1996                  Vimaflour               8.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    3.00
1996                  VILC                    0.00      .75    0.00    0.00    0.00     .75    0.00    0.00
1997                  Nghi Son Cement        30.00    0.00    0.00   26.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Saigon Hilton           13.05    0.00    0.00   18.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  MFL Vinh Phat            .30    0.00    0.00    0.00      .15    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  137.73     .75    3.50  154.46   94.53      .75    3.50  109.96
Approvals Pending Commnitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  BA RIA                 24.20    4.00    0.00   49.00
1998                  BAWC                    12.50    0.00    0.00   12.50
1997                  NGHE AN SUGAR          20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1997                  SEM HOTEL               0.00)   0.00    4.50    0.00
1996                  VIETNAM INTL LS]_       5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  VINAFOOD                10.50    0.00    0.00   13.50
Total Pending Commitment:          72.20    4.00    4.50  105.00



65
Annex 8
Cambodia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jul-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commnitrnent
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  CPP                    15.00    0.00    4.30   45.20
1997                  SLP INVESTMENTS         5.25    0.00    0.00    2.25
Total Pending Commitment:         20.25    0.00    4.30   47.45



66
Annex 9
MRC: Water Utilization Program
Transboundary Analysis
1.    The 65 million inhabitants of the Mekong Basin depend to a great extent on the natural
resources of the basin for their livelihood. Few of the economic benefits of the extraordinary
economic growth that occurred i:n the surrounding region of Southeast Asia were experienced in
the basin. Poverty is widespread, and the stress on the natural resources of the basin is increasing.
About 75% of the population depend on agriculture and fisheries. Fish is the major source of
low-cost and high quality protein for the people of the basin, and an important source of
employment and income in rural areas. Wetlands that are vital for the maintenance of the fishery
and support globally significant bio-diversily, depend on the annual ebb and flow of the Mekong
River system to sustain these sensitive ecological systems. Exploitation of these wetlands in
increasing, and in some cases they are being drained for cultivation. There is great pressure orn
the sensitive upland areas that are the source of runoff and groundwater recharge because of the
lack of cultivable land and alternative sources of income - shifting cultivation and illegal forest
exploitation are degrading the waLtersheds, increasing erosion, and threatening the water supplies
on which so many of the people of the basin depend.
Sustainable Water Resource Development
2.   Economic development and investment are imperatives in the Mekong Basin, and water
resources development is a major focus and priority for this investment. Agriculture is the
predominate economic sector and a key element in each riparian country development strategy.
Because of the long dry season irrigation development is essential for long term growth of the
agriculture sector, especially in Cambodia in the lower basin where little development has so far
taken place. Increased productivity of existing agriculture, especially in northeast Thailand and
the Vientiane plain in Laos in the upper basin, and in the delta of the lower basin in Vietnam, will
also be led by expanding irrigation water supplies to support intensification, and new irrigation
and drainage infrastructure to imnprove water control to increase productivity. Hydropower
development is also a high priority, both as a source of export earnings in Laos, and as a key
growth factor in each country's national development - in 1993 electrification reached just 4% of
Cambodian households, 13% in Laos, and 1O% in Vietnam. The importance of inland navigation
along the mainstream and the principal tributaries will remain high because the road and rail
network is extremely limited.
3.    More than 80% of the basin's population is rural, of which a high proportion depend on
the river system and the aquatic ecosystem for an important part of their subsistence livelihood.
Changes in the flow pattern (flow, water level, timing, quality, sediment load) brought about by
proposed developments of new water uses can have a major impact on these fragile social and
economic systems if not carefully planned with these concerns in mind. Rural economic
development will eventually relieve this pressure, but in the meantime, serious ecological and
social damage could occur with the attendant increases in rural-urban migration and poverty if
the water resources of the basin are not planned and managed with these concerns in mind.
4.    Transboundary Issues and Concerns. These issues are not entirely national. Decisions
about water use and development in different parts of the basin have a significant effect on



67
different parts of the annual flow pattern of the Mekong river system, the hydrologic functioning
of Tonle Sap, the unique and demanding hydrologic regime of the major wetland areas in the
basin, water availability particularly in the dry season when irrigation supply is needed and water
depths in the mainstream are critical for inland navigation, water use, water quality and aquatic
ecosystems elsewhere in the basin. The major transboundary concerns as they relate to
sustainable water use and ecological resources, and their transboundary character, are
summarized in Table 1. Until recently, too little was known about the specific linkages in the
Mekong Basin to help formulate regional guidelines that will protect these resources or prevent
unacceptable harm. The major ongoing investment in these areas by MRC, the riparian
countries, and their donor partners to develop basic ecological and social and economic
knowledge is expanding the availability of these data, and should enable WUP to make
significant progress in integrating these considerations into development plans and policies.
5.    A combination of regional and national actions is required to address these transboundary
issues, and to protect water and ecological resources. In the Mekong it seems clear from
experience to date that both the process and technical and institutional capacities needed to
develop the regional framework to implement the Agreement are also critical to guiding the
countries towards national policies for sustainable water and ecological resource development.
6.    Global Benefits of Cooperation in the Mekong Basin. There are two main areas in
which timely and catalytic intervention can prevent further degradation and conserve water and
ecological resources resulting in substantial global benefits:
(a)  Ecological Resources.    The  basin  contains  globally  significant bio-
diversity,wetlands and flooded forests in the Tonle Sap basin (Cambodia alone has an estimated
5% Asian wetlands of international importance as estimated by IUCN), in the Plain of Reeds in
Vietnam and Cambodia (a nearly 1 million ha multiple use wetland, a third of which are acid-
sulphate soils requiring managment), extensive mangrove forests in the delta, and the coastal and
marine resources connected to the river where it empties into the South China Sea. Tonle Sap is
one of the most unique natural Lake-River systems in the world. It is a vast shallow Lake in the
center of the Cambodian plain, filled in part from its own drainage basin, and from reverse flows
through the short Tonle Sap River during the months of peak flow in the Mekong River. In the
dry season the Lake slowly drains through the Tonle Sap River into the Mekong River near the
head of the delta, providing a substantial part of the dry season flow in this part of the basin and
help significantly to control salinity intrusion and conserve the mangrove forests. The Lake basin
contains extensive wetlands and flooded forests (the latter have already been reduced by half
from an estimated 1 million ha) that are critical to the lower basin fishery and other bio-diversity
resources.
(b)  Regional Cooperation. Cooperative and integrated management of transboundary
water resources of international river basins is one of the most pressing of current problems in
sustainable natural resources management. The earth's largest reserves of accessible and usable
freshwater resources are contained in its more than 200 transboundary lake and river systems. In
nearly two-thirds of these systems implementation of a wide variety of agreements are being
implemented and monitored by international river basin organizations. Their success is critical
not only to the protection and wise use of these water resources, but to securing the broader social
and economic benefits of cooperation and water use. The Mekong is one of the largest
international river basins in the developing world to have reached the stage of creating a
comprehensive Agreement for sustainable management of shared resources. Moving from
agreement to cooperate, to cooperative and sustainable management of water resources has



68
proven to be an elusive and diificult goal not only in the Mekong Basin but elsewhere in the
world. A timely and catalytic intervention by GEF, carefully coordinated with other key donors
such as UNDP offers the opportunity to demonstrate globally how this difficult but critical
transition can be made.
Existing Regional Framework
7.   The Mekong Agreement. The riparian countries have long recognized the need for
cooperation to develop the water resources of the Mekong Basin. Cooperation among the
riparian countries of the Mekong River Basin has its origin in the establishment of the Committee
for the Coordination of Investigations of the Lower Mekong Basin in 1957. This Committee and
its successor, the Interim Mekong Committee, carried out a large number of investigations and
technical studies, including extensive work on the establishment of a hydro-meteorological
network, a mathematical mode:ling capability and a large number of pre-investment planning
studies. This approach, however, was not sustainable. Civil and international conflict prevented
major investments with regional benefits fiom being undertaken, and the committee approach did
not have the essential elements cf a legal framework for cooperation.
8.    Recognizing more recently the vital role that water resources development will continue
to play in the social and economic development if each of the riparian countries, and hence the
need to ensure that these valuable natural and environmental resources are developed and
managed sustainably, the four riparian countries of the Lower Mekong River Basin (Cambodia,
Laos, Thailand and Vietnam) signed and ratified the "Agreement on the Cooperation for the
Sustainable Development of the Mekong Basin" (Agreement) in April 1995.
9.    The Agreement provides a legal framework for cooperation that commits the four
riparian countries to "sustainable developrnent, utilization, conservation and management of the
Mekong River Basin". The parties agreed to cooperate to optimize the multiple use and mutual
benefits of all riparians, and to minimize the harmful effects that might result. In particular, it was
agreed to protect the environment, natural resources, aquatic life, and ecological balance of the
Mekong River Basin from pollution and other harmful effects resulting from any development
plans and uses of water and related resources in the Basin.
10.   Institutional Framework for Cooperation. The Agreement establishes the Mekong
River Commission (MRC) as an international body and the institutional framework for
cooperation in the Mekong River Basin. The MRC consists of three permanent bodies: (i) the
Council, a Ministerial-level body which provides policy direction and makes decisions necessary
to implement the Agreement; (ii) the Joint Committee (JC, whose members are to have a rank not
less than the level of Head of Department - present representatives are at the level of Director
General or Vice-Minister) implements policies and decisions of the Council, and is charged with
preparing a Basin Development Plan, mobilizing resources to implement the programs and
projects in the plan, exchanging information and data, conducting studies and assessments for the
protection of the environment of the Basin, and supervising the annual Work Program of the
Secretariat; and (iii) the MRC Secretariat (MRCS) which provides operational capability and
technical and administrative support to assist the Council and the Joint Committee to implement
their mandates.
11.   National Mekong Committees (NMCs). Each of the parties to the Agreement has
established a National Mekong Committee (NMC) normally chaired by the country's
representative on the Joint Committee (in the case of Cambodia, the chair is the Minister of



69
Public Works). The NMCs typically consist of senior representitives of all the concerned line
agencies in the respective country. In the case of Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam, the NMC
includes a full time secretariat. NMC members provide the membership of the JC's Sub-
committees on Water Quantity Rules, Water Quality Rules, and the Basin Development Plan.
Although the NMC s are not referred to in the Agreement they have become key groups in the
functioning of the MRC, and the countries intend to strengthen their capacity to coordinate
Mekong Basin related activities in their country and play a strong role in the Commission.
12.   Relations with the Upper Riparian Countries. The two upper riparian countries, China
and Myanmar are not parties to the Agreement and are not likely to become so in the near future.
Nevertheless, MRC has made serious efforts to enhance and sustain dialogue with both countries.
China and Myanmar have been designated as dialogue partners and are regularly invited to
meetings of the JC and the Council where they are allowed to speak. At a technical level, the
MRCS has made continuing efforts to establish a permanent technical working group with
Chinese experts to discuss common issues particularly concerning, the hydrology of the upper
basin. Ad hoc expert level meetings are currently held about twice a year. These efforts have
continued because of the importance of planned developments of the upper basin by the Chinese.
Their portion of the basin (16% of the drainage area, and about 18% of the average annual flow -
just 2% of the drainage area is in Myanmar) has very large potential for hydropower development
involving at least one very large reservoir (with an estimated potential of 4800 MW) whose
regulation of the river would have significant positive effect on dry season flows downstream.
The Strategic Regional Problem of the Mekong Riparian Countries
13.   Each Mekong country has an economic and social development agenda in which the
protection and development of water resources plays an important if not vital role. But each
country is uncertain of the motives and plans of the other riparians, and each country is
concemed that plans and future opportunities not be foreclosed or delayed by disagreement, or
that its people and vital ecological resources not be harmed by the actions of the other riparians.
14.   National and sector policy actions in each of the countries, required to accelerate
development, and ensure that its economic impact is environmentally and socially sustainable, are
constrained by this uncertainty. Moreover, without clarity on the ground rules for implementing
the Mekong agreement, particularly the provisions for notification and consultation, and
maintenance of flows on the mainstream, it is difficult if not impossible in some cases to mobilize
external financial resources to undertake urgently needed major investments in water resources.
Only limited investment in irrigation and hydropower are going forward in the face of this
constraint, but major projects are planned and in an advanced stage of preparation such as the
Nam Thuen II project (hyrdopower) in Laos, and Kok/Ing/Nan and Khon/Chi/Mun projects
(irrigation) in Thailand.
15.   Since the signing of the Agreement, the parties have not been able to agree on how the
key provisions should be interpreted, nor which issues and provisions should be given priority or
emphasis at this stage. The small progress achieved so far has been a struggle ever since the
Agreement was signed requiring difficult accommodations at each step. Each Mekong country is
committed to cooperation as the cornerstone of sustainable development and use of their shared
water resources of the Mekong basin. But for there to be cooperation, they must know the
ground rules and procedures for cooperation. Creating these ground rules and procedures is itself
a critical cooperative action, one that all view as the way to launch the long term process of
cooperation for sustainable development and the realization of the goals of the agreement.



70
16.   The Main Causes for the Lack of Progress on Cooperation. It has been four years since
the Agreement was signed and there has been little or no progress on its implementation. There
are two principal causes for this:
(a)  Weakness of the i'nstitutional Framework of MRC. The institutional framework
established in the Agreement is appropriate and should prove in the long-term to be effective.
However, the weakness of the Secretariat (MRCS) has severely constrained the MRC. There are
two principal causes for this:
(i)  first, the MRCS was established with a weak financial base. MRCS has three
sources of funds: contributions of the riparians, overhead charges of 8% on each
donor grant, and treasury operations on the advances and other funds in the
possession of MR.CS. Each country contributes equally (despite the enormous
disparity in GNP aLmong the countries) and the total amount of these contributions
is currently US$740,000 per year. MRCS's current operating budget is about 2.4
million/year, and the difference is derived from donor funded projects and treasury
operations. This imbalance has forced MRCS to concentrate on mobilizing an ever
larger amount of donor funds for projects to ensure its income and maintain a large
staff and its office overhead. A large proportion of its staff have become project
officers devoted to project management and administration Mobilization of donor
funds, without a sense of program strategy and priority aimed at the immediate
steps required to implement the agreement, has been the driving force in MRCS's
work program, with the result that it has lost its focus on the core functions of
MRC. Some would argue that this is caused by narrow and specific interests on the
part of the donors, and this is in some cases an important factor, but the root cause
is the lack of a coherent strategy nad program on the part of MRCS that would
ensue that the portfolio produces the right results; and
(ii)  second, due to lack of any real strategy or priorities related to the core functions of
MRC, MRCS did not create the intemal structure, staffing pattern, working culture
or essential links with stakeholders, that would ensure its success. It is doing
everything from monitoring and basic planning to investment project preparation.
Although many parts of its work program focus on key environmental and natural
resources managernent areas' where the knowledge base is weakest (fisheries,
wetlands, hydrologic monitoring including water quality, and forestry and
watershed management) the overriding focus on accumulating and managing
projects has caused it to lose sight of why it is doing these studies.
(b) Lack of an Appropriate Shared Knowledge Base. The national governments,
particularly the Laotian and Cambodian line agencies and to a lesser extent the Vietnamese line
agencies, are hampered considerably by thie lack of a basin information and knowledge base.
MRCS, despite over US$40 million in donor assisted projects since 1995, has failed to build this
knowledge base -- which contains not just a large body of basic data though that is necessary as
well, but information in the form of models, interpretations and analysis of the data, guidelines
and good practice, and other knowledge of the physical, ecological, social and economic
conditions so important to good planning and natural resource management. Data is collected but
never used, and in some instances is not even shared within MRCS. A significant portion of this
program will be vital in the immediate future to WUP and to the BDP, but so far almost no use
has been made of this expanding body of data and knowledge, for example, on hydrology,
fisheries, wetlands, water quality, or the soc ial and economic conditions in the basin. Exchange



71
and sharing of data between the countries and the MRCS is informal and limited because there is
neither the underlying protocol to promote sharing, nor the information system in place to
encourage sharing and to show the countries the valuable service that MRC can provide.
MRC Strategic Plan
17.   In 1997 and 1998 MRC took its first steps to rectify this situation - it began the
preparation of a Strategic Plan with the assistance of UNDP, and with the assistance of GEF and
the World Bank, it began preparation of a water utilization program (WUP). The JC and the
MRC Council adopted the Strategic Plan, and the MRCS WUP proposal, in October 1998. The
importance of these steps should be appreciated - the Strategic Plan sets both MRC and the
Secretariat on a new course, and agreement on the comprehensive and integrated approach
proposed for WUP resolves long standing disagreements among the countries on how to begin a
process leading to implementation of the Agreement.
18.   The Council took two other important actions in October 1998. It decided to develop
regional or basin wide guidelines on EIA that may form and important part of the future
notification and consultation procedures under the Agreement, and for the first time recognized
the importance of participation as a key part of MRC water and natural resource planning. The
latter decision reinforced and expanded its earlier mandate to MRCS to give greater attention to
social and economic factors in its planning.
19.   The MRC Strategic Plan, prepared with extensive consultation among and with the
riparian stakeholders sets out a "vision" for the Mekong Basin and the Mekong River
Conmmission. The plan includes a mission statement for the MRC, establishes 5 specific goals for
the mid-term, and identifies four "key result areas":
-    Natural resource planning and development;
-    Environmental management and social considerations;
-    Data bases and information systems; and
-    Organization management and cooperation.
20.   In the plan, specific objectives are identified for each "key result area", a strategy is
proposed for each area that addresses these objectives, and measures of success are identified.
While the plan and the strategic planning process are necessary steps, they are not sufficient to
ensure that MRC becomes a more effective and supportive partner seen by the riparian countries
as adding real value - for this MRCS must make substantial progress on the each of the "key
result areas" (KRAs).
21.   The plan makes an initial attempt to link the MRCS work program to the strategy, and
adopts criteria for assigning priorities to projects and activities. The need for a transition period
in which MRCS would restructure and prioritize its work program is explicitly recognized in the
MRC Plan because so many projects and activities are ongoing. The importance of this initial
Plan, and in particular the strategic planning process, cannot be overemphasized - if the process
is continued at regular intervals in the same participatory manner then one may expect real
progress if the MRC's external partners are supportive. So far, the donors have reacted in a
positive way to MRC's actions.



72
Immediate Follow-up Actions.
22.   The two highest priority activities identified in the work program for the MRC's
Strategic Plan are:
*    Preparation of the Basin Development Plan (BDP) as called for in Chapter IV,
Article 24 of the Agreement; and
*    Negotiation of the Rules for Water Utilization (referred to as the Water
Utilization Program, or WJP) as called for in Articles 5 & 6, and Article 26, of
the Agreement.
23.   The BDP is seen by the countries as a way to move beyond the operational requirements
of the Agreement (the rules for water utilization) to embrace the broader theme of
environmentally and economically sustainable development (including the first and second "key
result areas") which is the basic tenet of the Agreement. The Swedish Government is currently
implementing the first phase of BDP preparation with the aim of reaching agreement with the
MRCS and the JC in July 1999 on the final terms of reference and plan for carrying out this
program.
24.   WUP would address the critical fiLrst step in implementing or making operational the
Agreement. Equally important WUP would. provide the analytical tools and knowledge base ( the
second and third "key result areas") required to support negotiation of the rules and their
implementation, and provide the technical and institutional capacities required for longer-term
cooperation to sustainably manag:e the basin's water and ecological resources.
25.   UNDP has prepared a P'hase II project of capacity building both in MRCS and the
National Mekong Committees (:NMCs) that addresses the fourth "key result area". Progress
under the UTNDP Phase II project is critical to the success of both the BDP and WUP. As noted
in paragraph 16(a) above, the weakness of MRCS has been a root cause of the lack of progress
on cooperation among the riparian countries, and UNDP's proposal addresses many of the
fundamental problems within MRCS noted in that paragraph.
26.   Genuine collaboration will be required between the BDP and WUP teams, with UNDP,
and within MRCS and with the NMCs and their line agency partners. Moreover, progress on the
broader MRCS work program, particularly in areas such as fisheries, wetlands and their linkages
with the flow pattern and hydrology of the Mekong river system, and on monitoring both water
quality and quantity, will be needed to ensure that data and knowledge are available concerning
key transboundary ecological resources.
Role of the GEF WITP Project
27.   As noted above WUP will make a major contribution to two of the MRC's "Key Result
Areas". By concentrating on developing the analytical framework to support consultations on the
rules for water utilization, and supporting the consultations themselves, WUP will be the catalyst
needed to start a long-term process of genuine cooperation that will prevent the loss of future
development opportunities and protect ecological resources of great value in the Basin and
globally .
28.   The design of the WUP Froject is based on four principles or aims:



73
*    Institutional Capacity. WUP is designed to be a long tern program of institution
and capacity building complimentary to and coordinated with UNDP's Phase II.
Production of reports, carrying out of studies or making calculations are not the
primary aim. The key riparian stakeholders must develop the capacity to manage
and use the tools needed to negotiate and implement the rules;
*    Stakeholder Participation. The riparian stakeholders, including the NMCs and
the concerned line agencies, must participate at each step in the implementation
of WJUP, doing the work to develop the knowledge base and tools in order to
ensure that all local knowledge is utilized and that the necessary capacity is
developed for the longer-term. Equally important, this institutional capacity
gained at the regional level should lead to better national and sector planning and
policies.
*    Analytical Tools.  A shared knowledge base of the basin and the related
functional information systems and data bases, and analytical tools in the form of
a basin modeling package, are required as the foundation for cooperation.
*    Hydrological and Ecological Linkages. Because of the need to integrate the
analysis of water and ecological resources, water quantity and quality, and
transboundary issues and concerns, the knowledge base and basin modeling
package will incorporate components to allow the direct assessment of
transboundary impacts on ecological, social and economic resources and
conditions. This novel approach may be initially limited in some areas because
of the lack of data on specific linkages with respect to some issues or in some
areas of the basin, but its incorporation into the basic design and framework for
WUP will promote a more focused prioritized work program in the MRCS that
should lead to rapid progress in filling these information and analytical gaps
given the major support it receives for work on ecological issues from the
donors.
e    Consultations to Formulate the Rules.  A  process of consultation and
negotiations, well supported by the knowledge base and basin modeling package
is essential for the fornulation and agreement on the rules and for their
implementation. This is also a long process so it must be started early in the
Project focusing first on the procedural rules that depend less on the basin
models.
29.   WUP is therefore targeted on the root causes constraining cooperation in the Mekong
basin, and on the "key result areas" in the MRC Strategic Plan.



74
Annex 10
Thailand at a glance
East   Lower-
POVERTYand SOIAL                                               Asia &   middle.      -              -       -ide
Thailand    Pacific  income       Development diamond*
199B
Population, mid-year (mi/llions)                       61.1     1,817       908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   2,20C       990      1,710
GNP (Atlas rnetho4k US$ billions)                     134.4     1,802     1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-981
Population (%)                                          1.1       1,2       1.1
Laborforcet%)                                           1.i        6        1.5      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent esthimat   test year available, 19921)-9                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% ef poputiflon below national poverty Ihne)l    1
Urban population ('Io of total population)              21         35        S      I
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        69        69         68
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                 33        37         38
Child malnutrition I(% of children under 5)                       20         -,                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of pXoulation)                  89        77         75
Illiteracy (% ofpopulafionage 15+)  .                    5         15        14
Gross primary enrollmennt (% ofschboo-agepPopulatonr)   87        117       103              Thailand
Male                                                  ..       119       10S               Lower-middle-income group
Femate                                                 .       118        10 '
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     19S7      1997       998l
Economic ratiosa
GDP (U$SSbillions)                            19.S    50.5      149.1     11.3
Gross domestic investmenteGOP                26.9     27.9       30.1      26.3                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            20.0     28.9       48.4      58.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   21.5     26.4       32.2      41.8
Gross national savings/GDP                   21.5     27.1       30.2      40.6
Current accounrt balance/GDP                 -5:5      -07       -2.0      128      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         0.6      2.1        2.3       1.8     Dornestic            a-}     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               16.9     40.3       62.7      86.8      Savings
Total debtservicelexports                     13.7     21.9      15.4       6.4
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..      59.3
Presentvalue of debtVexports                   ..               119.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  19889i8     1997      1998   1999-'3
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  5.8      6.9     -1 3       -9,4       2.7       _      Thailand
GNP per capita                      3a6       5.5     -2 1       -845         ..              Lower-middle-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices            9.5    1t.3       66        -0.8       5.0.
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment l%l
(% of GDP)                                                                           0
Agriculture                                  24.8      15.7       9.7      11.2     20
Industry                                     29.3     33.3       41.3      41.2                  _
Manufacturng                                20.2     24.3      31.2      32.1             93   94   95   96  97
Services                                     45.9     50.9       49.0      47.7    -20
Private consumption                          67.9     60.2       57.7      47.5    -40
General govemment consumption                10.6      11.3      10.1      10.7               _ GDI    -.*-GDP
Imports of goods and services                25.4     28.3       46.3      42.4
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   3.5      2.6       -0.1      -0.4    30
Industry                                      6.9      8.8       -0.6     -12.6    I5
Manufacturing                                6.2      9.3       2.5      -10.0
Services                                      6.1      6.5       -2.1      -8.6      0
93   94   95   96           96
Private consumption                           4.6      5.7       -0.9     -16.4      5..
General government consumption                6.6      5.8       -1.6       4.6
Gross domestic investment                     4.1      6.2      -19.7     -32.0    40
Imports of goods and services                 4.4      9.0      -10.0     -23.8              _Exports    .o-Imports
Gross national product                        5.6      6.9       -1.1      -7.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the
diamond will be incomplete.



75
Annex 10
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      197       199S     Inflation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                       10
Consumer prices                                ..     2.5       4.9      8.1      s. 
Implicit GDP deflator                        6.0      4.7       3.0      8.7
Govemment finance                                                                2
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                             12.9    15.3       18.1     15.6            93   94   95  95   97   99
Current budget balance                       1.2      1.1       7.2      3.1            _-GDP deflator        CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                     -2.9    -2.1         ..       ..
TRADE
1977    1987      1997      1998     Export and import levels (US$ milions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                        3,490   11,654    57,604   54,340    scor
Rice                                       656      884     2,075    2,099
Rubber                                     302      799     1,832    1,340    60,000 
Manufactures                                ..  6,989    45,113   42,323                              *
Total imports (cif)                           ..  13,471    61.353   42,895    40,
Food                                        ..  ..  2,041  1,774  20980 *ii.u lh
Fuel and energy                             ..   1,733      5,367    3,159
Capital goods                               ..       ..   29,796   19,747          a
92  93  94  9S 96  97  98
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      95       136       156
Import price index(1995=100)                  ..      71       130       157              *Exorts      *Imports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                      ..    133        105        99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1977    1987       1997      1998     Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              3,985   14,665    72,415   65,913     15
Imports of goods and services              5.083   14,361    72,437   48,536
Resource balance                          -1,098     304        -22   17,377     1e
Net income                                   -38    -894    -3,481   -3,562                                        I
Net current transfers                        39      225       479       415
Current account balance                   -1,098    -365    -3,024    14,230                                        98
Financing items (net)                      1,106    1,277   -15,226  -17,452        tI
Changes in net reserves                      -9    -912    18,250    3,222    *101
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..   26,202   28,842
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            20.4    25.7       31.4     41.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                   ComposIiton of total debt, 1998 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3,344   20,385    93,416   96,681                   k 2,111 B: 96
IBRD                                      346    3,413      1,728    2,111                               c:3,238
IDA                                         19      l1        98        96                     -D 2,384
Total debt service                           572    3,458    11,716    4,451      G: 34,835
IBRD                                       44      445       296       301                            '        E 13,657
IDA                                         0        1         3         3
Composition of net resource flows             14                                                     .
Official grants                            14      129        78
Official creditors                        165       30      5,930    1,621                                   /
Private creditors                         165    -103          7      -873
Foreign direct investment                 106      352      3,745       ..
Portfolio equity                            0      115      -308        ..                               F: 40,358
World Bank program
Commitments                               136       34       767     1,015     A - ISRO                    E * Bilateral
Disbursements                              75      157       443       498     e- bA     D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        19     181       194       181     C-IMF                       G-Short-term
Net flows                                  56      -25       249       317
Interest payments                          25      265       105       123
Net transfers                              31    -289        145       194
Development Economics                                                                                             9/13/99



76
Amnex 10
Cambodia at a glance
East I
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Asia &     Low-       --     --_- -
Cambodia   Pacific  income        Development diamond-         
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      10.7     1,817    3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   280       990       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     3.0      1,802    1,844                       T
Average annual growth, 1S92-98
Population (%i)                                      2.6        1.2      1.7
Labor force (%)                                      2.6        1.6      1,9     GNP                              Gross
iper                                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199248)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty {X of population below national poverty i/ne)                            capita:36  :oim:
Urbar populaton (% of total popuulalior,)             22        35        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      6o4       69        6S
Infant mortality:(per 1,000 live births)             103       37        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)          i38         20         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (V of population)                13        77        74
Illiteracy f%ofpopulation age 15+)                    i:        15        32
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-a g population)  1 t     1 117     108           _Cambodia
Male                                               119       119       113                 Low-income group
Female             :OO                                       118       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    19137     1997      s998
Economic ratlos-
GDP (US$ billions)                            -. ..             3.2      3.0
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                 .         .      19.0     15.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              3ZS      34.6                     Trade
Gross,domestic savings/GDP                             ..      9.3       4.5
Gross notional savings/GDP                             ..      11.1      5.9
Currern account balance/GDP                           ,.       -5.9     -7A4            .
Interest paymentslGDP                                  ..      0,1       0.2     Domestic                    Investment
Total debtUGOP                                         ..      66.9     74.2     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                             ..       1.0      1.3
Present value of debtUGDP                     .        ..     52.4        .. A1
Present value of debtlexports                 .. ..           175A8
:        ;                              0        :                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Indebtedness
197?-87: 1988-98    1997      1998   199943
(averago annual growth)
GDP                                                                                      _a4.9  .0  10  Cambodia
GNP per capita          :.                    ..      .. . :_,-_Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987      1997      1998      Growth rates ofoutputand Investment(%F
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   ..       ..      50.7     50.6     8                    _
Industry                                      ..      ..      14.8      14.8     6-
Manufacturng                                ..       ..       5.8       6.2    4 .
Services                                      ..      ..       34.5     34.6     2..
Private consumption                           ..      ..       81.7     86.6    i       93   94   95   96   97   98
General government consumption                ..      ..        9.0      8.9                     GDI    -..-GOP
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..       42.2     45.2
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                          :2.4       1.3      0.4
Industry                                     ..      8.5      -2.8       1.1
Manufacturing                               ..      7.1       7.6       6.4
Services                                      ..     b.5        2.8      1.6
Private consumption                           ..     4.3       2.0       7.1
General govemment consumption
Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and services
Gross national product
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing,
the diamond will be incomplete.



77
Annex 10
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices|
(%/6 change)                                                                        20
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..       9.1      14.8    15
Implicit GDP deflator                           .. 2199.2                  16.9    10
Govemment finance                                                                    s
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                  0
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       10.6      8.4    -s       93    94   95   95   97
Current budget balance                          ..       ..        1.6     -0.3               _-GDP deflator  -..o.CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -3.2     -3.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..       874       999     1,800
Rubber                                        ..       ..        23        25
Logs                                          ..       ..       124       100      1,200
Manufactures                                   ..      ..       279       390
Total imports (cif)                             ..       ..    1,142      1,227       800Bod              diII
Food                                           .                                    400)
Fuel and energy                                ..
Capital goods                                  ..       .          .         . 
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..        .2 .3 .9
Import prce index (1995=100)                    ..       ..         ..       ..              *Exporns      *iImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..        .       991       994       0 .
Imports of goods and services                    .        ..    1,2865    1,297          92
Resource balance                                 .        ..     -294      -303
Net income                                       -                -17       -18       s
Net current transfers                           ..       ..       123       101                   ul          I l"
Current account balance                         ..       ..      -188      -220
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..       216       231     l  .
Changes in net reserves                         ..       ..       -28       -11    -20 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..       262       390
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                ..       ..   2,861.1   3,605.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..       ..    2,129      2,211
IBRD                                          ..       ..         0         0                    F 3 G 43
IDA                                           ..       ..       132       156                                c 66
Totaldebtservice                                 ..      ..        10        13                                      121
IBRD                                           .        .         0         0
IDA                                                               1         1 1 1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..       ..       210       194
Official creditors                            ..       ..        39        55
Private creditors                             ..       ..        -3        -3
Foreign direct investment                     ..       ..       168       120
Portfolio equity                              ..       ..         0         0              E 1,822
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                   ..       ..        57        31      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..       ..        30        19    |B-IDA      D-Othermultilateral   F-PiPvate
Principal repayments                          ..       ..         0         0      c - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     ..       ..        30        19
Interest payments                             ..       ..         1         1
Net transfers                                 ..       ..        30        18
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/8/99



78
.Annex 10
Lao PDR at a glance
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Laio    Asia &     Low.         - -               __    ----
POR    Pacif ic ncome         Development diamond'
Population, mid-yea (millIns)                           5.       j1817    3,515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     330O       990       520
GNP (Atlas method, UAS$ bifllons)                       1.6     1,~802    1,844
Average annual growth, 199248
Populton (%)9                                           2,8       1.2       1.7
Labor force ().                                                   1.6       1.9      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
MAoat recent estimate (latest year available. 1992-918)                              capita                       e-nrollment
Poverty (% of populstion below national poverty line)   46
Urba populationi (%o oa  oplto2                                    3s       3~1
Life extpectancy at birth (yeairs)                      Zia        69        63
Infant mortality (per ,000 live birfth)                 E8         37        69
Child malnltrition (1  f chidren underi 5)              40         20        .,Access to sate water
Access to sate water (% of population                   t1         77        74
Illiteracy (14 of populat ion age 15+)                    .        1 5       32
Gross primaryenrollment (%/ of sqholageqppuatIon)      1 12       117       108                   Lao POR
lwtee                                                123        II19      Ila___ Low-income group
Female                                               ICII       118       103
KEY ECONOMIC R~ATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     10817     10991     1098
Economic ratios*
GOP (LASSbillions)                             ..            11   1.7       16
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                   ..      0w2      28.7      24.0Trd
Exports of goods and servi'ces/GOP             6.       S        23.8      39.2Trd
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       .      2.3      114         1.8
Gross natJqrWl.savings1GDP                     -.        ,       13.5       6.6
Current account balance/GOP                     ..     -8 6     .14A4    -13.6       Doesi
Inteirest payments/GDP                         ,.       02        0.4       0.5      Saomesticetmn
Total debt/C-DP                                 ,.   1088       132.8    148.0       Sans
Total debt serviceexports                       ..    16          6.4       5.9V
Presenytvalue of debt/GOP                       ,         .      53,0         -
Present value oftdebt/exports                    .       ..     216.8
Inebtedness
1977487  198-98      1997      1998  11999,103
(aerage annual growth)
GOP                                    ..     08        69        4.0       612                - a D
GNP percapita                          .      4,1       4 2       1.6       38                __  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          .        .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment %
(16. of GOP)                                                                        1
Agriculture                                     .         .      52.8      55.6
Industry                                        .        ..      21.0      20.8
Manufacturing                                  .        ..      15.9      15.1      4
Services                                        .        ..      26.2      23.6      2
G
Pr'ivate consumption                           ..      89 4      81.2      89.9             93   94   95  9w   97   98
General government consumption                 ..       8 3       7.4       8.3                  _GD1    __._
Imports of goods and services                  ..      14 0      41.2      61.4       _______________
1977487  1988-09      1997      1998
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      .      4.9       7.0       3.0
Industry                                       ..      131        8.1       4.0
Manufacturing                                 ..     14.3        9.3       3.7
Services                                        .       5 8       7.5       3.2
Private consumption                             .
General govamment consumption                   .
Gross domestic investment                       .
Imports of goods and services                   .
Gross national product                          ..      6.8       6.9       4.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the coLintrY (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing,
the diamond will be incomplete.



79
Annex 10
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998        _
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                             100
Consumer prices                                   ..        .       19.3      95.1      80
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..        .       19.3      87.5      40
40
Government finance                                                                      20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      0
Current revenue                                   ..       ..       16.6      13.7              93    94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                            ..       ..        7.0       2.8                -GDP deflator  -*O CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..       ..       -8.0      -4.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998       Exportandimportlevels(US$millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..       ..       317       37       oo
Wood products                                   ..       ..         90        87
Agricultural products                           ..       ..         18        23
Manufactures                                    ..       ..        169       139     600
Total imports (cit)                               ..       ..       648       728
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..          .9 ..                       3 4         5         7
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..         ..        ..               *Exports      E Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                    ..       65        417       510       0
Imports of goods and services                    ..      147        721       800       -
Resource balance                                 ..       -83      -304       -290
Net income                                        ..     -14        -21        -16
Net current transfers                             ..       ..        73        82       09                 S       R        I
Current account balance                           ..     -93       -251       -224     12
Financing items (net)                             ..      82        221       275       5
Changes in net reserves                           ..      11         30        -51     -180
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..       ..       136       181
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUS$)                  ..   175.1    1,260.0   2,605.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt 1998 (US$ millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..   1,161       2,320     2,437
IBRD                                           ..        0          0         0                           G.1
IDA                                             ..      48        358       395                              1      395
Total debt service                                ..       10        28         31
IBRD                                                     0          0         0                                     :62
IDA                                             ..       0          3         4
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                                         E: 1420
Official creditors                             ..      163        120        78                                       :559
Private creditors                              ..        0          0         0
Foreign direct investment                       ..       0        104        54
Portfolio equity                                         0          0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..       15         48        63      A -IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                            5         42        25       B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           ..        0          1         1       CC-IMF                        G - Short-tenn
Net flows                                       ..       5         41        24
Interest payments                              ..        0          2         3
Net transfers                                  ..        5         39        21
Development Economics                                                                                                      9/20/99



80
Annex 10
Vietnam at a glance
East
i $7 -'.ElTY and SOCIAL                                         Asia &     Low-
Vietnam    Pacific   Income       Development diamond*
P>ooulation, mid-year (millions)                       76.s      1,817     3 515                  Life expectancy
CGNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     330       990        520
(; i P (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    25.6      1.802    1t844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                           1,7       1.2       1.7
Labor force (%)                                          1 9       1S        1 9      GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-9.)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationtal poverty fine)   37
Urban population (l' of total population)                24         35        31
Llfe expectancyat birth (years)                          e8         69        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bIrths)                 35        37         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               45         20         .                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   38         77       7,4
Illiteracy(% of poputation age 15+):                     17         15        32
Gross primary erollment (% ofschool-age population)     114        117       108     g             Vietnam
Male                                                   ..       110        113     j            Low-income group
Female                                                 ..       118        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1 997      1998
1  Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                              ,.       ..       24.6      25.9     1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                           14,6      27.6      19.8                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                       6.5       47-5      46.4
Gross. domestic savingslGDP                             5,1 t:                 . 
Gross national savings/GOP                                        .0.8      14.9
Current account balance/GOP                               ..       7.        -5.0      omt
Interest payments/GDP                                     ..       1.1       1.5      Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   .87.0                      8.6       Savings
Total debt service/exports                                ..       7S        9.0
Present value of debtlGDP                                 ..      78.4        ..                        l
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..    167.7
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                     .      7 .9      8.8:      3.5       5,1                -Vietnam
GNP per capita                         ..      5.5      3.7         ..                              Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          ..    25.0      13,3        3.3       9A
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                             39.1      26.2      28.6    !40-
Industry                                        ..    33.9        31.2      36.1     130-
Manufacturing                                 ..    31.5          ..         ..    20
Services                                         ..    27.0       42.6      35.3    '0           
Private consumption                                       ..      71.7      77.0             93   94   95   96   97   95
General government consumption                            ..       8.8       9.0                   _GD1    -4'GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..    15.9        55.5      52.3     - GDP
(average annual growth)                   G1977-7  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports I%I
Agriculture                                              5.0       4.5       2.5     7 5
Industry                                               12.3       13.1       7.5
Manufacturing                                                                      50 .
Services                                                8.5        9.2        1.2
25,
Private consumption                                     7.1        2.7       2.0
General government consumption                          10.2       2.5       2.0      0 L          ,          8_
Gross domestic investment                              23.2        7.8       3.0             93   94   95   96   97   98
Imports of goods and services                          27.1        7.2       3.6                -Exports       -    Impons
Gross national product                          ..       7.8       5.6         -
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
the diamond will be incomplete.



81
Annex 10
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998     i Inflation {%)
Domestic prices4
(% change)                                                                             40
Consumer prices                                   ..       ..        3.2       7.8    130
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..   365.6         5.1       6.5    20
Government finance                                                                     Is i
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    |o
Current revenue                                   ..    14.2        20.4      20.7             93    94    95   9i    97    98
Current budget balance                            ..      0.0        5.3       5.5     1              GDP deftator    :  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..       ..       -0.6      -0.5 
TRADE
(US$ Millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998      |Exportand importlevels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..     610       8,955    10,379     20,000
Rice                                            ..       ..       927
Fuel                                             .        .      1,443        ..    15300
Manufactures                                     .
Total imports (cifl                                     1,184     13,466    17,443     109000
Food..                                                    .*.                          0
Fuel and energy                                                      ..
92   93   94   95   95  97   98
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..         ..        ..               wExports       Kimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..       ..         .._.._                                               _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                      .        .     11,841    11,997 l
Im ports oftgoods and services                    .         ..   13,841    13,526
Resource balance                                  .         ..    -2,000    -1,529
Net income                                        ..   94   -6321                                    I
Net current transfers                             ..      27        712       950
Current account balance                           ..    -592      -1,920    -1,292        t
Financing items (net)                             ..     295       2,236     1,307
Changes in net reserves                           ..     297       -316        -15     -12
Memo:                                                                                  I
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..       ..        94       -524
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                  ..       ..  11,900.0  12,580.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              0       191     21,629    22,437
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0                 G2            951
IDA                                             0       s0        569       851                 G 2,271      C:391
Total debt service                                0         2       907      1,087
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                             0        0          4         5        F: 4,421
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               207  41  222                                    S
Official creditors                              0        -1       382      1,092
Private creditors                               0        0        287      -368
Foreign direct investment                       ..       ..    1,800       1,200                                   : 14,084
Portfolio equity                                0        0        -94
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        0        466       427      A - IBRD                       E - Bilatera
Disbursements                                   0        0        181       254       B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            0        0          1          1      C- IMF                        G - Shor-taenm.
Netflows                                        0        0        180       253
Interest payments                               0        0          3         5
Net transfers                                   0        0        177       248
Development Economics                                                                                                      9/13/99






IBRD 3008?
95I 100  .5'                                                                                     110
MEKONG RIVER BASIN
BASIN BOUNDARY
UPPER MEKONG BASIN
RIVERS
'*2()  PERCENT FLOW CONTRIBUTION
d; : q>                                          *    NATIONAL CAPITALS
0   ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
300                                                                                                             30
0    100   200   300   400   500
t'   J,-*                                                                             I
rz    vt           %X. UPPER                                             KILOMETERS
,'  --"Y'  Yg ~MEKONG
INDIA                           :,  BAS/N                          C  H  I N  A
-25'  73          -.                                                                                              25'
-i1                         __i;        e,J A
-'-a           .        ,):                  -- 
MYANMAR                             '                             Kanoi.
20'                                                                                            -                20
i WY W ' lHainan
Yangon*                         .                   OWER\
(Rangoon)                  'M MEKOND                                           N..
THAIL   ND,'-: ': 
0 --.                              < BAS[[%-- -          15
 6eBangkok .i 4& 1                       9N{A       INAM
-10                                                               '       .",   '                              10-
This map was produced by the
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations
and anyother information shown on
this map do not imply, an the part of
The World Bank Group, any judgment
on the legalstatus of any territory, or
any endorsement or acceptance of such
boundaries.                            100                               1 05'                            1 10
JANIIARY 2000






