Report No. PID7271
Project Name                     East Asia and Pacific-Water Utilization (@)
Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Environment/Natural Resources
Project ID                       4EPE45864
Implementing
Agencies                         Mekong River Commission (MRC)
(member countries: Thailand, Vietnam,
Cambodia and Laos)
Updated PID Date                 August 25, 1999
Appraisal Date                   April 4, 1999
Tentative Board Date             January 31, 2000
1.      Basin Background.   Six countries share the Mekong Basin: China,
Myanmar, Laos, Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam. The Mekong River ranks
twelfth in the world in terms of length (4,800 km) and eighth in terms of
average annual runoff (475 billion m3).    The flow in the Mekong is closely
related to the region's tropical monsoon climate. The flows begin to increase
at the onset of the wet season in May, usually reaching a peak in August or
September, and then decreasing rapidly until December. The flows recede
slowly during the annual dry period from December to April, usually reaching
their lowest levels in April. As a result, an enormous volume of water flows
through the Mekong Basin in the wet season, resulting in extensive flooding
along the mainstream and tributaries. The flood waters support a productive
and diverse freshwater ecosystem, especially the Tonle Sap. The floods also
result in substantial damage to crops, structures, and loss of human life.
During the dry season, a dramatic reduction of flow leads to water shortages
for domestic and agricultural use, and limiting navigation on the River. The
coastal plain of the Delta constantly suffers from an intrusion of seawater.
The Basin possesses the region's largest potential water resources. These
water resources have the ability to support economic growth through
irrigation, hydropower, navigation, water supply and tourism. At the same
time, there is a need to protect the Basin's unique and productive aquatic
systems, in order to ensure that the water resources in the Basin are
developed in a sustainable manner.
2.      Main Sector Issues.   The major sector issues relate to equitable
sharing of the water resources and sustainable development of the natural
resources in the Basin. The most critical factor is the dry season flow in
the lower Basin. Laos relies heavily on river transport along the River and
the reduction of dry season flows could adversely affect navigation. Cambodia
has the long-term potential for increasing its irrigated agriculture. Over
the decades, Vietnam and Thailand have developed extensive irrigation systems
that currently face dry season water constraints. Seawater intrusion into
the Delta during the dry season adversely affects irrigation and domestic
water supplies. Vietnam makes substantial use of dry season flows from the
River, primarily for seawater repulsion and irrigation purposes. Thailand has
recently been studying options for diverting water from the Mekong, and for
inter-basin diversion from Thai tributaries to the Mekong.



3.      Hydropower development in the Basin is gaining momentum in China and
Laos. Currently, there are only 500 MW of installed capacity in the Lower
Mekong and 1500 MW along the Chinese portion of the River. China is
constructing several hydropower schemes on the Mekong River. Laos has plans
to construct a number of medium-sized hydropower projects on Lao tributaries
to the Mekong. Carefully planned hydropower development can bring two
positive regional impacts. First, both China and Laos would like to export
power to Thailand and options for creating a regional power grid are under
study. Second, hydropower schemes would help increase the dry season flows as
they store wet season flows in order to generate power during the dry season.
Increased dry season flows would benefit the dry season water demand in the
Lower Basin. Thus, how to share the potential additional dry season flow
would be of key interest to the lower riparians.
4.      The Basin supports one of the most productive and biodiverse freshwater
eco-systems in the world. Annual floods support a rich riparian habitat and
an extensive network of wetlands. Water flooding into nutrient rich areas,
combined with high levels of solar energy, help fuel a high-powered eco-
system. There are at least 1,200 different fish species in the Basin and the
annual fish harvest in the Basin could be as high as 1 million tons. Tonle
Sap (the Great Lake of Cambodia) and the Delta's estuarine fisheries are the
most productive areas. Fresh water capture fisheries constitute a major
source of protein and an important element of food security for the Basin's
mainly poor and rural population.
5.      Basin Collaboration Background. Cooperation among the lower Mekong
countries began in 1957, with the establishment of the 'Committee for
Coordination of Investigations of the Lower Mekong Basin'. The Committee
conducted hydro-meteorological investigations and pre-investment studies
which focused on a cascade of large international reservoirs along the main
river. In the aftermath of the Vietnam War, the framework of cooperation was
restructured to reflect the new geopolitical realities when Cambodia was no
longer a member, and the name 'Interim Committee' was adopted. Plans for the
mainstream reservoir cascade were postponed.
6.      Following the Cambodian Peace Agreement in 1992, Cambodia requested
readmission to the Mekong Committee. By the early 1990s, however, the
mainstream reservoir cascade no longer appeared tenable because of
environmental and resettlement concerns. The framework of cooperation was
restructured in the 1995 Mekong Agreement to include Cambodia and address the
two most important issues: dry season water sharing, and protection of the
environment and ecological balance. In 1995, the four countries (Cambodia,
Laos, Thailand and Vietnam, Fig.-1) of the lower Basin signed the 'Agreement
on Cooperation for the Sustainable Development of the Mekong River Basin'
(Agreement), which set up the Mekong River Commission (MRC). The Agreement
recognizes the vital role that water resources play in socio-economic
development and the need to ensure that valuable natural resources are
developed and managed in a sustainable manner.
7.      MRC Strategy.   In June 1998, the MRC, with assistance from UNDP,
prepared its first "Strategic Plan (1999-2003)", which sets out visions,
goals and strategies both for the Lower Mekong Basin and for the MRC. The
Strategic Plan recognizes the changing socio-economic and financial
environment in the region, and reviews the forces driving the changes in the
countries, donor community and global environment. It then, within the broad
-2 -



MRC mandate of the Mekong Agreement, identifies medium-term goals and four
Key Result Areas (KRA) or "Core Business Areas"---(a) Natural Resources
Planning and Development; (b) Environmental Management and Social
Considerations; (c) Database and Information Systems; and (d) Organization
Management and Cooperation. In line with the Strategies and KRAs, MRC Council
approved, in October 1998, a five-year indicative work plan and the 1999 work
program.
8.      Project Objectives.   The proposed project aims to help the member
states of MRC implement key elements of the 1995 Mekong Agreement. It would
support the MRC in achieving one of its five major medium-term goals:
establishing Rules for Water Utilization. It would directly address the key
sector issues of water sharing and ecological protection. Its development
objectives are to: (i) promote reasonable and equitable water utilization by
the countries of the Basin; and (ii) protect the environment, aquatic life,
and maintain the ecological balance of the Basin. This would be achieved
through preparation of rules for water quantity and quality, in accordance
with the principles set in the Agreement, and of related procedures for
implementation of the rules.
9.      Project Description. The project would consist of three components: (A)
Developing necessary analytical tools and a comprehensive basin simulation
package to support MRC's basin management decisions, determine and monitor
the rules; and putting functional information sharing mechanisms in place.
(B) Drafting rules to establish minimum flows in the Mekong River and define
water allocation and utilization; preparing detailed review and notification
protocols and procedures; and assisting in negotiations and consultation
during formulation of the rules. (C) Strengthening institutional (regional
and national) capacity of implementation of the rules for water utilization,
undertaking basin management functions, coordination with upper riparians and
donor agencies, supervision and monitoring of the implementation of the
project, and of financial management and procurement management.
10.     Costs and Financing.   The total project cost is estimated at $16.2
million, with the basin modeling and analytical tools component accounting
for about 629, the rules for water utilization component for about 8%, and
the training and management component for about 29%. The project would be
proposed for a GEF grant of $11.0 million, other donor parallel co-financing
equivalent to $2.8 million, and counterpart funding by the MRC riparian
member countries and MRC of $2.4 million.
11.        Implementation.       MRC, through its Secretariat (MRCS), will be
the implementing agency for the Project. The Grant Agreement will be
negotiated with MRCS which will be responsible for project management
including financial and procurement management. MRCS will: (a) undertake
procurement duties, including: (i) contracting consultant services, (ii)
purchasing office and communication equipment, and (iii) purchasing
computers, software, and related equipment; (b) maintain and report adequate
financial records, facilitate audits and manage special account and
disbursements; (c) monitor and evaluate Project implementation; and (d)
prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual reports including detailed work
plans.
12.     MRCS will create a permanent "WUP management team" to lead and
coordinate the Water Utilization Program. The management team will consist of
- 3 -



four highly-qualified specialists, one from each riparian country selected by
the MRCS from a short-list provided by the respective NMC. The management
team will be supported by a small team of consultants funded by the GEF
grant. The head of the WUP management team (one of the riparian staff), the
other three riparian staff and supporting consultants, will function as a
fully integrated team. The WUP management team will organize and supervise
"Working Groups" which will be responsible for carrying out activities of
the WUP. Two technical working groups are envisaged: (i) Basin Modeling and
Knowledge Base; and (ii) Environmental and Transboundary Analysis. The two
technical working groups will support a "Rules" Working Group. The two
technical working groups will also support the ongoing program to prepare a
Basin Development Plan (BDP) by sharing and exchanging data, information,
modeling tools and results. The working groups will consist of MRCS staff
from the existing divisions; national staff from the NMCs and line agencies,
and local and international consultants. The national staff will be selected
by the National WUP Units (discussed below). The national staff and the MRCS
staff will form an integrated team with a joint TORs and workplan. The
actual work will take place both within the countries and at the MRCS offices
in Phnom Penh.
13.     Each NMC will also establish a permanent "WUP national unit" composed
of high caliber technical staff from the NMC Secretariat and seconded by key
line agencies. The national units will have day-to-day responsibility for
coordination of national participation, including the preparation of short-
lists of technical specialists to be selected by the MRCS for the WUP
management team and working groups. WUP national units will facilitate and
support the participation of line agency technical specialists in the WUP
working groups, and carry out agreed upon technical and administrative tasks.
14.     Japan, France and Finland have expressed interest in parallel co-
financing of this project. Japan is interested in funding activities to
identify and fill data gaps. France is interested in funding activities
relating to water quality assessments. Finland plans to support modeling
needs and data requirements analyses. Moreover, the possibility of forming a
partnership with UNDP will be explored during project preparation. UNDP has
a long history of involvement in the Mekong affairs, and has strong network
of field offices. It was the primary international force behind the 1995
Mekong Agreement and has a keen interest in the formulation of subsidiary
agreements for water utilization. One possible cooperative arrangement would
be to utilize UNDP's field offices to help the consultation process. UNDP
could take the lead in addressing the broader political issues and capacity
building, while the Bank could contribute to the technical issues of water
sharing and environmental protection.
15.     Environmental and Social Aspects. The project will be of technical
assistance nature, with strengthening of institutional capacity. It does not
involve physical investment works. The result of the project can add value
to sustainable environmental protection and improvement of water management
in the basin. MRC is presently undertaking a variety of environmental
studies, relating mostly to data collection and database building, survey,
investigations, mapping and inventories, policy studies and assessment.
Subjects of these programs completed or on-going range from inventories of
ecosystems, wetland biodiversity, watersheds, freshwater fishery and forest
covers, to environmental assessment, salinity and acid sulfate soils, water
quality and quantity monitoring.
- 4-



16.     Participation.   Implementation of the Mekong Agreement requires strong
political commitment from all member states, and the participation and
support of key stakeholders in the basin and external parties. The Project
preparation and implementation must be owned by MRC who will work through
NMCs with national line agencies and other stakeholders. To enhance this
ownership, MRC organized national workshops and two regional consultation
workshops with NMCs, national agencies, MRC JC members, national GEF focal
points, and donors during the two-phase of project concept formulation. In
Phase-I, the MRC team and the consultants developed a conceptual framework
for the project, which was used as the basis for the first regional
consultation workshop on January 8-9, 1998 in Bangkok. In Phase-II, the
design of the project components was developed based on national discussions
to understand each riparian's needs and concerns for promoting and managing
development and for their national interests. It was discussed at JC
meeting in March 1998 and the second regional consultation workshop on May
13-14 in Vientiane. These consultations provided feedback on the
interpretation of the Agreement and key national and regional concerns to be
addressed in the Project, and helped reshape the project concept. During
project implementation, it is expected that the consultation process will
intensify and include a wider participatory audience. Workshops with
stakeholders will be organized to discuss and obtain feedback on proposed
rules. Preliminary discussions were also held with potential donors, e.g.
JICA, Finland and France on potential co-financing of the Project, and with
UNDP, ADB, UK and AusAid on coordination, and during the MRC Consultative
Group Meetings.
17.     Benefits.  The target population will be those living along the Mekong
River, its tributaries or utilizing their waters.     The Project would benefit
the populations in the Basin, as well as in the riparian countries that
depend heavily on the Mekong basin's natural resources to sustain their
socio-economic development. It would benefit the basin's ecosystems. These
benefits would result eventually from the implementation of the rules and
procedures for water utilization and the improved understanding of the river
system through the models and analytical tools. The Project will also
benefit the whole region in terms of stipulating political collaboration and
dialogue. Donor community and other interest groups would gain indirect
benefits from a more effective and coordinated use of their funds and
assistance.
18.     Project Sustainability. Institutional: The long-term    viability of the
MRC depends on two main elements: the interest of the riparians or the demand
for such a regional institution to help facilitate and promote regional
collaboration in the Basin; and the technical capacity of MRC in making sound
decision on basin management issues. At this stage, the first element does
not appear to be in doubt. For the second element, putting in place basin
management tools, the establishment of rules for water utilization to
implement the Agreement, and preparation of the BDP will all contribute to
boosting of MRC's technical capacity.
19.     Financial:   Since the establishment of the earlier Mekong Committee in
the 1950s to MRC in 1990s, the activities of the regional agency have been
almost entirely funded by donor agencies. MRC has now an annual budget
between $10-20million, almost all of which comes from donor grants. MRC-
member countries pay for some nominal share of the MRC's administrative costs
and counterpart staff support.    If donor funding were to decrease, it is
- 5 -



unclear if the MRC would be able to continue to carry out its current
programs. However, given the continued importance of the Basin in the
region, the strong donor interest demonstrated over the past 40 years, and
MRC being the only regional organization dealing exclusively with water and
related resources management in the Basin, it is not foreseeable that donors
would reduce dramatically their support to the MRC. However, a long-term
goal of the MRC should be to increase the amounts of member contributions to
cover greater share of the MRC activities.
20.     Technical:   There are no insurmountable technical issues.   While the
basin modeling would be a complicated exercise, numerous basin models have
been available in the market and applied in many river basins of the world.
One concern is the sustainability of the modeling efforts. Previous modeling
results have not been used effectively. The main reason is that the models
were developed separately with certain sub-sectoral interest, and do not have
a strong focus on MRC's decision-making for basin planning and management.
Thus, there has been little incentive to keep them operational. Nor have
these studies created much permanent modeling capacity inside MS or among the
riparian states to apply the models and update them (Section E.3). The
modeling component under this project would have the primary focus of
developing and testing the formulation of the rules, of being operational to
assist MRC in monitoring and review of the implementation of the rules, and
of aiding decision making on basin management issues.
21.     Risks.  The potential risks relate to: (a) Insufficient implementation
capacity of MRC/MS/NMC; funds and programs are often donor-driven; (b)
Riparians may be unable to reach agreement on model parameters,
interpretation of the principles in the Mekong Agreement, or the draft rules;
and (c) Complicated issues related to water quality measuring and relating
rules. Mitigation measures will be sought project during preparation.
22.     Lessons Learned. The first lesson was from the negotiations for the
1995 Mekong Agreement, which were difficult and time-consuming. UNDP
negotiation assistance was necessary for the parties to reach consensus on a
new framework of cooperation. Early attempts in 1996 by the MRC alone to
formulate subsidiary agreements related to water utilization were
unsuccessful. The project design therefore calls for a structured and
consultative approach to formulating the rules for water utilization.
23.     The BDP preparation process, supported by UNDP, Switzerland and Danida,
provided some experience. Its progress has been slow and produced less than
expected results. The preparation for the WUP has taken a two-phase
approach. Phase-1: formulation of Project concept and consultations on MRC
and country consensus. Phase-2: formulation of detailed project components.
Recently, other donors also modified some of their approaches by introducing
a similar two-phase approach in the preparation of BDP. The BDP and the Rules
for Water Utilization are the basic foundation for the MRC's management
efforts and should proceed in parallel. The Project design supports modeling
tools that can be used for both the BDP and formulating rules for water
utilization, particularly the minimum flow levels on the mainstream. This
will then provide a framework for analyzing different basin-wide development
scenarios in the BDP.
24.     Other lesson was to avoid duplication and to enhance coordination among
MRC programs. MRC has many on-going and planned programs that will provide
- 6 -



direct input to the Project. These programs largely deal with resources
monitoring and basic data collection. The Project will seek to integrate
databases and information by identifying interface and linking them into a
basin-wide modeling systems.
Contact Points
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H St. NW,
Washington DC 20433, USA
Tel. 1-202-458-5454;
Fax: 1-202-522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 27, 1999.
- 7 -



