                                Document of
                               The World Bank



                                                    Report No.: 70332




              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                      THE MEKONG RIVER COMMISSION

                        WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT

                                 (TF-23406)

                                June 28, 2012




Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
Currency Equivalents (annual averages)


Year   US$     Cambodia             Laos      Thailand            Vietnam
`            Cambodian Riel         Lao Kip   Thai Baht        Vietnamese Dong

1999   1       3816.56            7094.75      37.89             13940.99
2000   1       3836.08            7622.88      40.18             14166.43
2001   1       3839.61            8589.19      44.50             14816.31
2002   1       3835.00            9935.55      43.10             15264.90
2003   1       3858.25            9935.55      41.58             15507.47
2004   1       3925.85           10590.49      40.28             15738.66
2005   1       4033.93           10627.42      40.27             15853.12
2006   1       4060.81           10167.04      37.10             15990.43
2007   1       4004.91            9605.56      33.20             16084.55
2008   1       4022.10            8754.15      33.07             16435.45
2009   1       4146.59            8515.90      34.34             17798.36

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB Asian Development Bank
BDP Basin Development Program (MRC)
CNMC Cambodia National Mekong Committee
DCG Donor Consultation Group
DSF Decision Support Framework
GEF Global Environment Facility
GEO Global Environmental Objectives
ICR Implementation Completion and Results Report
IEG Independent Evaluation Group
MRC Mekong River Commission
NMC    National Mekong Committee
PAD Project Appraisal Document
PPAR Project Performance Assessment Report

Fiscal Year

Cambodia:                January 1 – December 31st
Lao PDR                  October 1 – September 30th
Thailand                 October 1 – September 30th
Vietnam                  May 1     – April 30th




 Director-General, Independent Evaluation                 :   Ms. Caroline Heider
 Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                   :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
 Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                    :   Ms. Martha Ainsworth (Acting)
 Task Manager                                             :   Ms. Lauren Kelly
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background ..................................................................................................................... 1
2. The Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ................................................................. 3
3. Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................................................................. 5
4. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 6
5. Achievement of the Objectives ....................................................................................... 7
6. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 13
7. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 14
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 14
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 14
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 14
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 15
8. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 16
References ......................................................................................................................... 17
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 18
Annex B. Persons Consulted............................................................................................. 21
Annex C. Borrower Comments......................................................................................... 24



Boxes
Box 1: Objectives and Components of the Water Utilization Project (TF-23406)............. 4
Box 2: The Development of the Decision Support Framework ......................................... 9


Figure 1: The Mekong River Basin and Riparian Countries .............................................. 2




This report was prepared by Lauren Kelly who assessed the project in December 2010. Peer and Panel
Reviews were provided by Kenneth Chomitz (who accompanied the mission) and George T. Keith Pitman,
respectively. Research Assistance was provided by Ms. Tu Chi Nguyen. Romayne Pereira provided
administrative support.
                                                              v


Principal Ratings
                                       ICR*                         ICR Review*                            PPAR
Outcome                            Satisfactory                            n.a.                        Moderately
                                                                                                      Unsatisfactory
Risk to                         Negligible to low                          n.a.                         Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                            n.a.                        Moderately
                                                                                                      Unsatisfactory
Borrower                           Satisfactory                            n.a.                 Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR. Forthcoming.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
Project                Task Manager/Leader                      Sector Director                    Country Director
Appraisal                                                                                        Ngozi N. Okonjo-
                                 Mei Xie                        Geoffrey B. Fox
                                                                                                     Iweala
Completion                   Toru Konishi                         Rahul Raturi                      Annette Dixon
                                                           vi


                 IEG Mission: Improving development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                          vii


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of the Water Utilization
Project (TF-23406), financed by a Global Environment Facility grant of US$11 million
made available to the Mekong River Commission. The grant was approved in February
2000 and closed in June 2008, a year later than planned, at which time US$57,749 was
cancelled. The Mekong River Commission is a river basin organization involving the
governments of Cambodia, Lao PDR, Thailand, and Vietnam that provides assistance and
advice to member countries on the development, utilization, conservation, and
management of the Mekong River Basin water and related resources. China and
Myanmar are observers. Its headquarters are located in Vientiane, Laos, and Phnom
Penh, Cambodia.

This report is based on a review of project documents, including the Implementation
Completion and Results Report, Project Appraisal Document, legal document and project
files, and on discussions with World Bank staff involved in the project. An IEG mission
visited Cambodia, Lao PDR, Thailand, and Vietnam from November 26-December 22,
2010. The IEG team held meetings with the Commission Secretariat – its Chief Executive
Officer and technical staff – in both Vientiane and Phnom Penh. In each member country,
the IEG team met with representatives of the National Mekong Committee, other relevant
Government Officials, donor partners, and NGOs.

Mission coordination was facilitated by Ms. Viktoriya Yevsyeyeva in extensive
cooperation with country counterparts: Ms. Khanh Linh Thi Le, Ms. Hoa Chau Nguyen,
Ms. Nuong Dieu Nguyen, Ms. Dung Thi Thuy Dao, Ms. Phuong Minh Le, and Ms. Khai
Hoan Nguyễn in Viet Nam; Mr. Thalavanh Vongsonephet (Teng) in Lao PDR; Ms. China
Chhun in Cambodia; and Ms. Poonyanuch Chockanapitaksa and Ms. Vachraras
Pasuksuwan in Thailand.

The mission is grateful to Mr. Alessandro (Alex) Nguyen Thanh Nha, for highly
professional translation services that were provided in Vietnam and to Ms. Romayne D.
Pereira for administrative support.

Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to government
officials and agencies and comments received are attached as Annex C.
                                            ix


Summary
This is a project performance assessment of the Water Utilization Project implemented
by the World Bank and financed with a Global Environment Facility grant of US$11
million made available to the Mekong River Commission. The objective of the project
was to assist the Mekong River Commission (MRC) to establish mechanisms to promote
and improve coordinated and sustainable water management in the Mekong River Basin,
including reasonable and equitable water utilization by the countries of the Lower Basin
(Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam) and protection of the environment, aquatic life,
and the ecological balance of the Basin.

Attempts to coordinate the sustainable development of the lower Mekong Basin began in
1957 with the establishment of the Committee for Coordination of Investigations of the
Lower Mekong Basin (the Mekong Committee), at that time involving Cambodia, Laos,
Thailand, and Vietnam. Relationships in the Lower Mekong Basin shifted with the end of
the Vietnam War and the rise of the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia in the 1970s, resulting in
a restructuring of the Mekong Committee. As Cambodia slipped into the role of a “non-
participating but active? member of the riparian arrangement, an Interim Mekong
Committee was formed by the three remaining countries (Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos) –
an arrangement that would last from 1978–1995. Following the Cambodian Peace
Agreement in 1992, Cambodia requested reactivation to the Committee. In 1995, the
original members of the Mekong Committee (Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam)
signed the Agreement on Cooperation for the Sustainable Development of the Mekong
River Basin.

The Agreement established the Mekong River Commission (MRC), a regional facilitating
and advisory body governed by water and environment ministers of the four Lower
Riparian countries. The aim of the MRC is to ensure that the Mekong water is developed
in the most efficient manner that mutually benefits all Member Countries and minimizes
harmful effects on people and the environment in the Lower Mekong Basin. It is
composed of a Secretariat, with 150 staff members, lodged within the two Secretariat
offices in Phnom Penh, Cambodia and Vientiane, Lao PDR and the four National
Mekong Committees, comprised of Government representatives and technical staff,
located within each of the member countries.

With assistance from the United Nations Development Program, the MRC prepared its
first Strategic plan (1999-2003) that identified five medium-term goals, the first of which
was to assist with the formulation of Rules for Water Utilization and procedures for the
notification and consultation of proposed water uses; maintenance of flows on the
mainstream of the Mekong River, in particular with regard to dry season flows based
upon an analysis of the natural flow regime; water quality criteria, rules, and measures
for the protection of beneficial uses, including the aquatic eco-system; monitoring water
use and diversions in the Mekong Basin; and information exchange and monitoring.

The Water Utilization Project was designed to help the MRC implement the first goal of
its strategic plan through a multi-pronged approach. The project logic included support
for data gathering, basin modeling, and the development of a knowledge base to improve
countries’ understanding of the interaction between the physical and biological features
                                              x


of the Mekong River, in order to facilitate enhanced cooperation and agreement around a
set of water use and quality rules. The project also supplied technical assistance to
facilitate discussions, negotiations and drafting of the water utilization rules by the four
member countries. Agreement on these rules, and an associated set of technical
procedures, was expected to lead to improved and coordinated sustainable management
of the Mekong River and the Mekong Basin systems.

Results. The project partially achieved its objective of assisting the MRC to establish
mechanisms, but by and large they are not yet being used to promote and improve
coordinated and sustainable water management in the Basin. The project also supported
policy and institutional reforms that improved the management effectiveness of the
Mekong River Commission and facilitated some engagement with non-MRC members,
China and Myanmar.

However, consensus was not reached on key technical guidelines, on minimum flow and
quality levels, that are needed to achieve the project objective of ensuring coordinated
and sustainable water management in the Mekong Basin. The premise built into the
Mekong Agreement is that Parties would be able to define clear-cut criteria on water
flows and quality and establish basin standards; and that, with those consensus rules in
hand, they could assess the compliance of any proposed development plan. But no one
party has wanted to pre-commit to criteria that would result in automatic approval or
rejection of a development proposal. Rather, parties to the Agreement have wanted to
run the model supported by the project the other way: by looking at specific development
proposals and then using the outputs supported by the model to decide whether or not to
go forward with the proposal.

Ratings. The Outcome of the project is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory, based on the
assessment of the relevance of the objectives and design, efficacy, and efficiency.
Although the objective of the project was substantially relevant, the relevance of design
was modest since it was based on the unrealistic premise that a fully scientific approach
could replace case-by-case negotiations. Additionally, the project design did not pay
adequate attention to national level adoption and implementation of project outputs, and
did not put in place sufficient mechanisms to extend knowledge generated by the
modeling to decision and policy makers outside of the National Mekong Committees.
Project efficiency, hampered by a lack of donor coordination and poor sequencing, was
also modest. While internal risks have been addressed with regard to ownership and
cooperation within the MRC, significant external risks exist with regard to hydropower
developments both upstream and along the tributaries.

Bank Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. While the project was well-
aligned with the MRC’s first Strategic Plan, quality at entry was undermined by the way
the project inputs were structured and used. In the initial part of the project, these inputs
could have been better used to design a facilitation framework for country-level decision-
makers; later to facilitate better understanding of the pros and cons of international
obligations of members. Interviews conducted for this review suggested that it may have
been more effective to have first supported workshops at the country through informal
meetings in order to increase awareness about basin dynamics before proceeding to
support international negotiations. Bank supervision was strengthened through a decision
                                            xi


to decentralize task management towards the end of the project – a move that shifted
more support towards capacity building and training at the country level – and that began
preparations for follow-on work with other donors that would address the gaps in country
level implementation that were identified under the project.

 Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. All four countries cooperated
with the MRC in implementing the project: the countries assigned qualified staff to
establish a riparian team at the MRC and established a national team within their
respective NMCs. The Mekong River Commission showed strong commitment to the
project objectives and has recently begun to develop an M&E framework to measure
achievement of organizational goals. Human resource capacity of the MRC has been
hampered by staff rotation rules however and more could have been done by the MRC to
disseminate the results of the project both nationally and among civil society across the
riparian member countries.

Lessons

   The development of a Decision Support Framework to assist Mekong countries
    make more informed decisions about water resource management has
    demonstrated the opportunities and limits of bringing scientific and technical
    innovation to bear in an environment fraught with political economy constraints.
    The premise that scientifically determined acceptable levels of water flow and quality
    and related modeling could replace case-by-case, negotiated water resource
    management decisions proved unrealistic. Rather, the models have been used to
    determine the winners and losers of proposed basin development projects in the
    context of negotiations that have focused on country-specific, rather than basin-wide
    interests.

   Human Resource development at the national level is critical for the effective
    implementation of international and regional water resource agreements.
    Participating nations require strong water expertise. Donor programs that seek to
    support effective implementation of water resource agreements at the international
    and regional level should consider how to support skills enhancement and training of
    water engineers, hydrological experts, water resource planners, and social and
    environmental specialists correspondingly at the national level.




                                                    Caroline Heider
                                                    Director-General
                                                    Evaluation
                                               1


1. Background
1.1     The Mekong River stretches for 4,180 km from its source in the highlands of
Tibet to the South China Sea, Figure 1. The river flows south from China’s Yunnan
province alongside the Myanmar-Laos and the Thai-Laos borders, and then descends
onto the Cambodian flood plain, where it is regulated by the storage of the Tonlé Sap, a
large lake that contracts and expands seasonally from 2,700 km² to 16,000 km² in
response to flooding from the head reaches of the river. As a consequence, the lake
supports one of the most productive natural fisheries in the world and provides 40-60
percent of the protein intake of the Lower Mekong Basin population (White
2002). Below Cambodia, the river splits into several distributaries that form the 39,000
km² Mekong Delta. The proportion of the total annual average flow in the Mekong River
by country varies considerably. Three of the six countries contribute 71 percent of the
flow: Laos contributes 35 percent, Cambodia 18 percent and Thailand 18 percent.
Vietnam contributes 11 percent, and upstream, China contributes 16 percent and
Myanmar only 2 percent.

1.2     Attempts to coordinate the sustainable development of the lower Mekong Basin
began in 1957 with the establishment of the Committee for Coordination of Investigations of the
Lower Mekong Basin (the Mekong Committee). At that time, the Mekong was one of the
only remaining unexploited large rivers in the world, besides the Amazon. Early
intergovernmental cooperation in the lower Mekong Basin was limited to hydro-
meteorological investigations and pre-investment studies of tributary development
projects and a cascade of large international reservoirs along the main river. An
Indicative Basin Plan, drawn up in 1970 by the Mekong Committee, presented a menu of
hydropower and irrigation projects to international donors, of which only a handful were
funded due to the political insecurity that characterized the region during that decade.
This piecemeal development– representing the project-led thinking that dominated
intergovernmental dialogue and donor relations at the time - would continue to
characterize decision-making.

1.3     Cooperation in the Lower Mekong Basin eroded with the end of the Vietnam War
and the rise of the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia in the 1970s, resulting in a restructuring of
the Mekong Committee. As Cambodia slipped into the role of a “non-participating but
active? member of the riparian arrangement, an Interim Mekong Committee was formed
by the three remaining Lower Mekong basin countries (Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos)
that would last from 1978–1995. Following the Cambodian Peace Agreement in 1992,
Cambodia requested reactivation to the Committee.

1.4     In 1995, the original members of the Mekong Committee (Cambodia, Laos,
Thailand, and Vietnam) signed the Agreement on Cooperation for the Sustainable
Development of the Mekong River Basin. The Agreement established the Mekong River
Commission (MRC) and includes provisions for the Commission to formulate "Rules"
for Water Utilization and procedures for the notification and consultation of proposed
water uses; maintenance of flows on the mainstream of the Mekong River, in particular
with regard to dry season flows based upon an analysis of the natural flow regime; water
quality criteria, rules, and measures for the protection of beneficial uses, including the
                                          2


aquatic eco-system; monitoring water use and diversions in the Mekong Basin; and
information exchange and monitoring.

Figure 1: The Mekong River Basin




Source: World Bank 2012.
                                                      3


1.5     With assistance from the United Nations Development Program, the Mekong
River Commission prepared its first Strategic plan (1999-2003) that identified five
medium-term goals: (1) establish the "Rules"; (2) formulate a Basin Development Plan;
(3) establish MRC environmental management policies and guidelines; (4) complete and
evaluate on-going programs and projects; and (5) improve the capacity of the
Commission. Designed as a regional technical assistance project, the $11 million Water
Utilization Project, financed by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and executed by
the World Bank, supported the implementation of the first medium-term goal:
establishment of the Rules.



2. The Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
Relevance of Objectives

2.1       The Project's development objectives as stated in the Project Appraisal Document
were to “assist the MRC to establish mechanisms to promote and improve coordinated and
sustainable water management in the Basin, including reasonable and equitable water
utilization by the countries of the Basin and protection of the environment, aquatic life and
the ecological balance of the Basin.?1

2.2      The project development objectives were and remain substantially relevant.
Mekong River basin planning, historically, has proceeded without analyses that integrate
existing ecosystem and human livelihood vulnerabilities with projections of regional
natural resources and climate change impacts. Moreover, reliable data on lower Mekong
basin natural resources have been difficult to obtain because they have not been collected
and government transparency has and continues to be inadequate (Grimbine and Xu
2011). The project objective was substantially relevant in so far as it sought to support
countries to overcome this dearth of credible data and culture of mistrust to foster
sustainable and equitable water utilization in the Mekong Basin. The project objective
was and remains consistent with the GEF's International Waters Program that emphasizes
cooperative planning and use of globally significant natural resources. At the time of
project appraisal, the GEF had selected the South China Sea region as one of its priority
regions within its International Waters portfolio.

2.3       The project objectives are also in line with the Country Assistance Strategies
CAS) in Cambodia and Lao PDR during the project period, but was less relevant to
Vietnam’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). Cambodia’s CAS (2005-2008) prioritized
wise management of water resources and particularly the Mekong watershed, noting that it
is critical for security and poverty reduction in Cambodia. It points to Cambodia’s
vulnerability as a downstream country to upstream developments and the high priority the
government places on improving its administrative capacities for water resource
management and its bargaining position in the Commission. The Lao PDR CAS (2005-
2008) sought Bank support for improved water management in the Mekong basin by

1.The objective of the GEF grant agreement is identical, except that it omits the part at the beginning about
“establishing “mechanisms.?.
                                                         4


developing the country’s administrative capacities for water resource management, citing
the technical assistance provided by the Water Utilization project as a key contribution to
this effort. The Vietnam CPS (2007-2011) places very little emphasis on the project
objectives, although integrated river basin management is featured in the strategy’s
Natural Resource and Environmental Management Pillar.

Box 1: Objectives and Components of the Water Utilization Project (TF-23406)
Project Development         Project Components
Objective
                            A. Basin Modeling and Knowledge Base. (Appraisal: US$9.1 m; Actual: US$11.41 m).
                            Designed to support the development of the necessary analytical tools to improve the
 “Assist the MRC to         understanding of the interaction between the physical and biological features of the Mekong
establish mechanisms to     River, it had three sub-components: (i) Information and Knowledge Base Development, aimed
promote and improve         at collecting preliminary data and assessing needs for developing a numeric model for basin
coordinated and             hydrology; (ii) Basin Modeling Package aimed at developing a transboundarny hydrological
sustainable water           model; and (iii) Environmental, Economic, and Social Transboundary Analysis to identify
management in the Basin,    environmental issues, priorities, explore best practices in river basin management.
including reasonable and
equitable water             B. Rules for Water Utilization. (Appraisal: US$1.2 m; Actual: US$1.53 m) The component
utilization by the          aimed to provide the Mekong River Commission (MRC) with technical assistance to facilitate
countries of the Basin      discussions, negotiations and drafting of the water utilization rules by the four member
and protection of the       countries. The component, focused on the development of the “rules? essential for the water
environment, aquatic life   utilization, had two subcomponents: (i) Data and information exchange protocols (data and
and the ecological          information exchange; water use monitoring; prior notification, consultation and agreement);
balance of the Basin.?      and (ii) Physical rules (i.e., maintenance flows on the mainstream and water quality).
(PAD p. 2)
                            C. Institutional Strengthening. (Appraisal: US$4.7 m; Actual: US$5.48 m).This was designed
                            to support project management as well as institutional strengthening for the MRC and the four
                            member countries and had four subcomponents: (i) Project and Program Management; and (ii)
                            Technical Training and Capacity Building for MRC and the concerned officials of the four
                            member countries; (iii) Communication, Participation and Public Awareness to disseminate the
                            knowledge obtained by the MRC and promote the exchange of ideas; and (iv) Participation in
                            GEF Regional and Global Programs to exchange experiences with other GEF supported
                            international water programs within and outside the region..




Relevance of Design

2.4     The project included three components, addressing the Commission’s modeling
and knowledge base, the rules for water utilization, and support for institutional
strengthening (Box 1).

2.5     The relevance of project design to the objectives is rated Modest. The project
design lacked attention to national level adoption and implementation of the project
outputs and sufficient mechanisms were not put in place to extend knowledge generated
by the modeling to decision-makers outside of the National Mekong Committees. These
decision-makers, such as those located in the national Ministries of Energy and Power,
are engaged in investment and planning decisions that are taking place outside of the
governance and management structures of the MRC and the National Ministries
represented in the National Mekong Committees. The project also did not plan for the
financing of activities associated with the dissemination of the Rules at the country level.
The project was extended in part to conduct this activity, and reallocated some funds to
each National Mekong Committee to carry out dissemination.
                                              5


2.6     Funds were split between facilitating the negotiation of the water use and quality
rules and building a basin planning model, but only a small amount of finance and
priority was placed in supporting the work of the Environment Division in the Mekong
River Commission Secretariat.

2.7     Beyond these omissions, the project’s weak results framework did not link the
technical assistance provided by this project and its outputs (modeling and the agreement
on a set of water use rules) to the ultimate objective of improving water resource
management for the economic and social development of the Mekong Basin.

3. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.1     M&E Design. The project adopted simple, time-bound output-oriented indicators
to measure its progress against its aim of supporting the development of the rules and
procedures to implement the Mekong Agreement. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
design did not include measures of project outcome. The key performance indicators
against which the achievements were to be measured were:

      The development of a functional, integrated basin modeling package by 2003;
      Development, installation and testing of a functional and integrated knowledge base and
       information systems on water and related resources, with a communication system
       linking the NMCs with the MRC Secretariat by 2003;
      Adoption of Rules for information exchange, water use monitoring, and preliminary
       notification/consultation procedures by 2004;
      Adoption of provisional in-stream flow "rules" (including minimum flows),
       notification/consultation/agreement on protocols by July 31, 2005;
      Adoption of provisional water quality rules by 2006.


3.2      The project’s M&E system was missing intermediate outcome indicators, such as
implementation of the Rules and adoption of the models at the national level so as to
enable qualitative measurement to assess progress towards the stated basin level project
objectives or indicators of the quality and reliability of data in the information system. In
consequence there was no measure on how cooperation on essential data and information
built trust among Parties. The institutional strengthening goals of the project were not
reflected in the key performance indicators. The project implemented some activities that
helped to build national capacity (such as modeling skills), but it lacked indicators to
measure them, and hence they were not captured strongly enough in the project’s overall
results reporting.

3.3     M&E Implementation. The MRC did not have an M&E system in place during
the project period and as such, was not able to monitor and evaluate the contributions of
this GEF financed project against its overarching organizational goals.

3.4     M&E Utilization. Information stemming from the monitoring of the project’s
implementation progress was not used as part of the project’s communication,
participation and public awareness strategy. M&E utilization did not include an open
dissemination of the knowledge obtained by the MRC, including peer review and
                                            6


external validation of the Decision Support Framework (DSF, discussed below) and
associated data. However, except for a few stakeholder workshops that were designed to
disseminate information about rules adoption and the technical guidelines, information
was largely buried within the MRC Secretariat. Knowledge gained by the NMCs and the
working groups could have also been exchanged, as planned, through participation in
GEF Regional and Global Programs to exchange experiences with other GEF-supported
international water programs within and outside the region.

3.5    The quality of monitoring and evaluation, based on M&E design, implementation,
and use of the data, is rated modest.

4. Implementation
4.1    The project was originally implemented by the Office of the Chief Executive
Officer of the MRC in coordination with multi-national working groups organized
through the National Mekong Committees. The working groups played a critical role in
discussing and negotiating various technical matters, drafting the various procedures, and
making recommendations to senior management of the respective governments and to the
MRC. However, due to an internal reorganization during the project period, the
responsibility for implementing the project was transferred from the Chief Executive
Officer to the Planning Division of the MRCS. The purpose was to integrate the project
under this line division, and achieve better coordination and increase synergy with the
UNDP-supported Basin Development Program, which aimed at developing a series of
scenarios regarding infrastructure development and water utilization.

4.2     Work on the Basin Development Program (BDP) got underway shortly after the
signing of the Mekong Agreement. The BDP was viewed as an “umbrella? under which
all other programs, projects and activities should operate. However due to a slow start,
the BPD fell behind schedule. While work proceeded steadily on the development,
negotiation, and adoption of the rules and procedures, basin modeling and associated
simulations that would be required to inform these negotiations lagged behind.

4.3     Timing: The project was approved on February 3, 2000, became effective on
March 30, 2000, and closed on June 30, 2008, a year later than planned. The project
implementation period was extended by one year. The extension was considered to be
necessary to: (a) develop technical guidelines to implement the Rules regarding water
quality and minimum flow, (b) increase capacity of the riparian countries to utilize
hydrological models for infrastructure development, and (c) disseminate the outcome of
the Project to direct stakeholders in the basin, particularly local governments and
communities.

4.4     Fiduciary Aspects: Overall financial management and disbursement functioned
satisfactorily. During implementation, there were no significant procurement or financial
management issues. The fiduciary part of the project was managed by the Financial and
Accounting Section of the MRCS, which is independent from the project technical team
and has qualified staff.
                                             7


4.5    Operational Policies/Safeguards: This technical assistance grant did not include
any physical investments. The project was in compliance with relevant Bank policies, i.e.
OP/BP 10.02 on Financial Management, Procurement, and OP/BP7 .50 on International
Waters.

5. Achievement of the Objectives
5.1     The efficacy of the project is evaluated against its objective of achieving
improved coordination and sustainability of water resource management in the Mekong
Basin, including reasonable and equitable water utilization by the countries in the Basin
and protection of the environment, aquatic life, and the ecological balance of the Basin.
Based on the evidence below, the objective was modestly achieved. The project partially
achieved its objective of assisting the MRC to establish mechanisms, but by and large
they are not yet being used to promote and improve coordinated and sustainable water
management in the Basin. It supported the development and negotiation of a set of Rules
to help facilitate the implementation of the Mekong Agreement, however consensus was
not reached on key technical guidelines, or minimum flow and quality levels, that are
needed to achieve the project objective of ensuring coordinated and sustainable water
management in the Mekong Basin

5.2     The extent to which the project improved the coordination and sustainability of
water resource management depends, first, on the extent to which the modeling and
knowledge base, the rules for water utilization, and the institution-building measures –
the project’s outputs – were delivered and, second, the extent to which they were being
put to use to improve equitable use of water resources and protect the environment.

Outputs

5.3      The project facilitated the development and negotiation of a set of Rules to help
facilitate the implementation of the Mekong Agreement – it provided analytical tools,
technical capacity support to the MRC and at the country level, and international legal
expertise. The specific progress achieved by the project in achieving regional consensus
on the Rules that govern the Mekong Agreement are assessed below:

5.4     The Procedures for Notification, Prior Consultation, and Agreement calls on
countries to jointly review any development project proposed for the mainstream of the
Mekong River to reach consensus on whether or not it should proceed. The Rule was
approved in 2003, however details concerning its application are ambiguous. At the time
of project closure, the Bank supervision team expressed concern about ambiguity in the
interpretation of some terminologies that affects their application, such as the definition
of a “small? and “domestic? project, for which the procedure does not apply, or the
definition of a “significant tributary? for which it does apply. The Bank also expressed
concern about the lack of guidance as to whether notification, prior consultation, and
agreement should take place at the feasibility or identification stage.

5.5   Nevertheless, these ambiguities have not prevented the procedure from being
implemented as evidenced by the thirty-five notifications and one prior consultation that
                                             8


has exercised thus far. Interim outcomes related to inter-governmental cooperation are
discussed in the section below.

5.6    The Procedures for Water Use Monitoring. A Protocol for Water Use
Monitoring was approved in 2003, a year earlier than planned, but guidelines and
implementation methods are still being developed. The implementation of this procedure
has been hampered by uneven capacity to perform data collection across the countries.

5.7     The Procedure for Water Quality was approved in January 2011, the last
procedure supported by the project to be approved. Adoption was delayed by five years
due to the political situation in Thailand. The MRC has made progress on developing the
Technical Guidelines for this Procedure; the Technical Guidelines for Water Quality
were under development at the time that this review was conducted Implementation of
these guidelines will require further institutional strengthening in both Lao PDR and
Cambodia. The development and adoption of this procedure involved a more lengthy
technical and political process than envisioned since the regional agreement had to be
compatible with national water quality standards in each riparian country.

5.8     Procedures for Maintenance of Flows on the Mainstream. Under the 1995
Mekong Agreement, the countries agreed to establish rules for water utilization that
prevent an unacceptable reduction in dry season flows, unacceptable increase in wet
season flood flow, and maintenance of mainstream flows at Kratie (Cambodia) adequate
to support the Tonle Sap reversal and acceptable inundation of the Tonle Sap Great Lake.
The provisional in-stream flow rules were adopted in 2006, but no agreement was
reached on the definition of normal, minimum or medium flow thresholds; an appropriate
approach for analyzing peak floods and droughts; or the application of the real-time daily
data (on flow and/or level) for monitoring purposes. The descriptions of the existing flow
regimes of the Mekong are based on historical data.

5.9    A Decision Support Framework (DSF) model was developed to inform the
negotiation of the Rules and Technical guidelines that govern the implementation of the
Mekong Agreement. The DSF is comprised of a Knowledge Base, a suite of Simulation
Models, and a set of Impact Analysis Tools, including environmental and transboundary
analysis (Box 2).

5.10 All MRC member countries and the MRC have formally adopted the Decision
Support Framework package. Fifteen licensed copies of the DSF have been issued; three
to the MRC Secretariat and three to each member country. The model describes the
hydrology of the entire Lower Mekong Basin, including the Tonle Sap and the Mekong
Delta. The project supported this mechanism as a means to build trust between parties to
more effectively inform negotiations around the Rules and Technical guidelines – with
the belief that if the data being shared and modeled were reliable, comprehensive,
credible, and easy to use and extrapolate - parties to the Agreement would better be able
to reach consensus on key water resource management issues. However, the data it
contains lack many of these attributes that would be required to build this trust necessary
for collective action.
                                                       9


5.11 The project supported the MRC with the development of an Integrated Basin
Flow Management Tool that sought to objectively assess the flows that should be
maintained on the mainstream to protect economic, social and environmental interests of
affected communities.
5.12 Capacity Development. The project supported an internship program which
engaged junior water resources engineers nominated by the member countries in
developing the hydrological, simulation and hydro-dynamic models. These engineers
have since returned to the National Mekong Committee (NMCs) of their respective
governments. Also, during the project extension period, the Project focused on
increasing the technical capacity of the NMCs by developing hydrological, simulation
and hydro-dynamic models at the national level. The project implemented a case study
approach where technical experts of the MRC and the government staff jointly developed
detailed and focused hydrological, simulation and hydro-dynamic models for high
priority areas of development (for example, hydropower, flood mitigation, irrigation).

Box 2: The Development of the Decision Support Framework

The Decision Support Framework (DSF) comprises three main elements accessed through a single user-
interface: a Knowledge Base; a suite of Simulation Models; and Impact Analysis Tools.

The Knowledge Base contains core data, pre-defined models (new model configurations can be set up by
specialist modelers), selected outputs from the model simulations and the results of analyses conducted
with the Impact Analysis tools. The core data have been drawn principally from the MRC Secretariat’s
databases, with some directly from individual country sources.

The suite of Simulation Models enables the prediction of impacts of changes in conditions within the
Mekong River Basin on the river system. Three basic types of model have been developed:

(1) Hydrological models, based on the SWAT software of the US Department of Agriculture, to simulate
catchment runoff based on estimates of daily rainfall and the topography, soils and land cover of each sub-
basin.
(2) Basin simulation models, using the hydrological models as inputs, based on the IQQM software
originally developed for the Murray-Darling Basin in Australia.The models route catchment flows through
the river system, making allowance for control structures, such as dams and irrigation abstractions.
Information on daily discharges is generated throughout the system and particularly at the primary outfalls
of Kratie on the mainstream and the Great Lake in the Tonle Sap basin. The IQQM software also draws
from data in the Knowledge Base to estimate irrigation demands throughout the Lower Mekong Basin.
(3) A hydrodynamic model, based on ISIS software, to simulate the river system downstream of Kratie
(Cambodia), including the Tonle Sap and the East Vaico in Vietnam, where wet season flooding extends
beyond the Lower Mekong Basin boundary. The hydrodynamic model represents the complex interactions
caused by tidal influences, flow reversal in the Tonle Sap River and over-bank flow in the flood season
with the varying inflows from upstream. Typically it generates hourly data for water levels and discharges
throughout the main channels and distributaries in the delta. A salinity intrusion model has also been set up
with the ISIS software drawing on the results of the hydrodynamic model. ISIS also has capability to
simulate other water quality parameters, including sedimentation, but at present there are insufficient data
to warrant setting up these models.

Spatial Impact Analysis Tools enable the prediction of environmental and socio-economic impacts in
response to changes in condition of the river system. Information derived from the mapping tools can be
overlain on a range of appropriately formatted spatial data using ArcView (provided with the DSF) to make
direct assessments of impacted population, land areas or sites of specific interest.

Source: www.mrcmekong.org
                                            10


Intermediate outcomes: use of the rules, data, and tools for more equitable water
utilization and acceptable water quality.

Implementation of the Mekong Agreement Rules

5.13 IEG interviews with members of the National Mekong Committees affirmed that
the process of drafting and negotiating the Rules helped to establish an initial level of
working relations among line ministries and the national committees, as well as a level of
trust amongst the States. However, consensus was not reached on key technical
guidelines that were needed to implement the Rules and achieve the project objective.
More progress was made during the project period in reaching agreement on the
procedural guidelines - the Procedures for Data and Information Exchange and Sharing,
Water Use Monitoring , and Notification, Prior Consultation and Agreement -- than on
physical rules on the Maintenance of Flows on the Mainstream, the guidelines for which
are still being developed, or on Water Quality.

5.14 The Procedure on Notification, Prior Consultation, and Agreement recently has
been tested with the commencement of the construction of the 1,260 megawatt Xayaburi
dam in Lao PDR, estimated to cost US$3.5 billion. Prior Consultation among the member
states between November 2010-April 2011 resulted in a request by some member
countries to postpone the building of the dam. Cambodia claimed that the prior-
consultation was not finished and that the additional study would be required and the
result is further consulted to fill the knowledge gap on hydrology, sediment transport,
fisheries, trans-boundary and cumulative impact. Vietnam cited the concern that its
fisheries could experience a decline by 200,000-400,000 tons per year due to negative
effects of the dam. As a result, Vietnam endorsed a 10-year moratorium on dam building
in the lower Mekong Basin – a key recommendation of a Strategic Environmental
Assessment commissioned by the MRC during the project period.

5.15 A critical issue concerning information sharing emerged during this process
concerning the quality and distribution of the environmental impact assessment prepared
for the Xiaburi dam proposal. The Procedure’s guidelines only require a summary of the
Environmental Impact Assessment to be made available to members. There is no
requirement in the guidelines that the assessment be made public. A Joint Development
Partner Statement that included the World Bank (dated January 26, 2011) called for full
public disclosure of all technical reviews and impact assessments submitted to the MRC.
Meanwhile, the technical features and potential cross-border and cumulative impacts of
China’s dams have not been made available.

Application of the Decision Support Framework

5.16 The premise built into the Mekong Agreement is that Parties will be able to define
clear-cut criteria on water flows and quality and establish basin standards. With those
consensus rules in hand, they could then assess the compliance of any proposed
development plan. But this approach has proved to be too abstract to negotiate. No one
party has wanted to pre-commit to these criteria that would result in automatic approval
or rejection of a development proposal. Rather, parties to the Agreement wanted to run
the model supported by the project the other way: by looking at specific development
                                                    11


proposals and then using a variety of model outputs to decide whether or not they like the
proposal.

5.17 The Decision Support Framework was conceived as a basis for negotiation and
for the formulation of the rules and corresponding technical agreements. Its users
therefore have to be confident that it accurately represents the hydrological behavior of
the Basin. Data updating is a critical issue. The effective implementation of the
procedures that have now been put in place requires this, but country-level data are not
always being made available in a timely fashion. The DSF should adequately and
comprehensively represent the Basin characteristics and behaviors of interest. It models
water flow– the major focus of the MRC - but it does not include a model for capturing
levels of sedimentation, which is a key process affecting agricultural and fisheries
productivity. 2 Sediment transport is critical for the productivity of the Tonle Sap fishery,
the seasonally flooded rice fields, and marine fisheries offshore from the Mekong’s
mouth. Uncertainty about how development plans will affect sediment flows emerged as
a major concern in the Strategic Environmental Assessment. The DSF also lacks the
ability to assess the impact of alternative development plans on fish migration and thus
on the viability of riverine fish stocks and the survival, for example, of the critically
endangered giant Mekong catfish.3 These ecosystem issues have emerged as key points
of uncertainty and contention.

5.18 The ability to apply the model across all Mekong member countries is uneven.
While each riparian country has formally adopted the DSF package, Lao PDR and
Cambodia require a greater degree of support from the MRC Secretariat modeling team
than Thailand and Vietnam.4The DSF was originally conceived as three different but
integrated platforms. Yet the integration of these models proved costly and the MRC
thus opted for the use of multiple platforms. While less costly, this suite of three different
models is not particularly easy to use. A separate model for the Delta is also needed
because of the complexity of that system. Additionally, Vietnam uses its own modeling
for the Vietnam Delta.5 Vietnam’s Southern Institute of Water Resource Planning,
responsible for planning water resources management in the Vietnam Delta, also
undertakes detailed Delta modeling.

2
 As noted by the Bank team, while recognizing that sediment is an important factor that affects livelihoods
and river morphology, sediment is perhaps one of the most difficult elements to be modeled. Good
sediment data are not uniformly available and coverage is patchy. Some initiatives to address sediment
modelling are on-going by a group of researchers at US universities in collaboration with the MRC; in the
meantime the World Bank is supporting Vietnam in collecting sediment information and to prototype a
model under the follow-on World Bank project, the Mekong Integrated Water Resource Management
Project.
3. The giant Mekong catfish (Pangasianodon gigas), the world’s largest catfish, is on the IUCN Red List of
Critically Endangered Species. The population has fallen by 80 percent over the last14 years.
4. It should be noted that Lao PDR, which did not have official hydrological models at project completion,
has since adopted the DSF platform and is using it for its own modeling and capacity building with the
support of the follow-on World Bank project, the Mekong Integrated Water Resource Management Project.
5. Vietnam utilizes the DSF for its national assessments – they rely on the SWAT and IQQM for their
upstream assessments – however for the Delta, it uses the VRSAP instead of the ISIS modeling. The
VRSAP provides a much more detailed representation of the Delta.
                                                  12


5.19 The quality and accuracy of the Decision Support Framework have not been
independently reviewed, undermining the credibility of its results and the trust of all
parties in the trans-boundary context. For the model to be credible, its structures should
be clear and auditable and its assumptions and limitations should be understood.
Parameters and input data should be accessible so that the interested public can obtain
and use the model. Two of the models are open source and well documented. ISIS
software - used to develop the hydrodynamic model - is expensive and proprietary, which
inhibits the widespread distribution and validation of the Basin modeling package. The
Decision Support Framework requires continuing validation and scientific review. It has
never been publicly peer reviewed despite repeated calls for an independent peer review
posed by networks and dialogue groups, such as M-Power, and donors, such as Danida.6
Finally, the DSF does not appear to give graphic, map-style output that is easily
interpreted by policymakers and negotiators.

5.20 Application of the Integrated Basin Flow Management (IBFM) Tool. The
transboundary flow assessment was carried out using the DSF and has contributed
substantially to a better and more objective understanding of the hydrological aspects of
the Mekong. However the use of this approach has been constrained due to the
difficulties to finalize agreed technical guidelines to implement the procedures for water
flow and quality.

Engaging the Dialogue Partners

5.21 The project aimed to encourage the participation of the upper riparian countries,
China and Myanmar, in MRC political dialogue and in project-related technical activities,
including basin modeling. China and Myanmar are dialogue partners with the MRC –
they meet formally with the member countries once per year in a Dialogue Meeting in
conjunction with the MRC Joint Committee Meeting but they are not formal members.
Overall cooperation, including data and information sharing between China and the MRC
member states, has been partially enhanced under project support for the MRC.7

5.22 China has provided upstream hydro-meteorological data during the wet season
since 2002 that helps to inform flood forecasting. The MRC modeling team visited China
for discussions on model comparisons with Chinese counterparts, and China has provided
information on the planning and design of its hydropower projects to MRC's BDP
program and the Initiative on Sustainable Hydropower. China also partly sponsored a
delegation of MRC Member Countries and MRC Secretariat officials in June 2010 to
visit the recently built Xiaowan – the second largest hydroelectric power station in China
after the Three Gorges Dam – and the Jing Hong dams on the Lancang-Mekong River,
offering further information on its hydropower projects.



6.The Mekong Program on Water, Environment and Resilience (M-POWER) is a network of collaborating
organizations and individuals working to democratize water governance in the Mekong Region. See
www.mpowernetwork.org.
7. This assessment did not find any attributable evidence of enhanced cooperation with Myanmar. As noted
by the Government of Cambodia, there is an on-going agreement on the sharing of hydrological data during
flood season between China and the MRC.
                                            13


5.23 However, China’s construction of the Xiaowan reservoir has occurred outside of
the framework of the Mekong Agreement. Tensions that have ensued highlight the urgent
need to engage China as a full MRC member and full steward of this vital water resource,
especially as its hydropower developments begin to come fully on stream. Mistrust
during a period of extremely low flow conditions in the Lancang-Mekong River in 2010,
for example, prompted China to share hydrological data in what has been described by
the MRC Secretariat as a special measure of cooperation. But the Xiaowan reservoir,
with a storage capacity of roughly 15 billion m³, has just begun and may take up to ten
years to fill.

5.24 Chinese reservoirs could regulate roughly 25 percent of the Chinese portion of the
Mekong River (PAD p. 16). They could be good for water regulation in the basin, if
released properly during droughts and stored during floods. Their storage capacity could
have the potential of increasing dry season flows near Vientiane by 50 percent and into
the Mekong Delta by 20 percent. They could also store part of the flow during floods.
This potentially positive benefit could be magnified under current climate change
projections. But even under normal operating conditions, there are still many unknowns.
How will the change in water quality and flow affect fish migration patterns? How much
nutrient rich sediment will be trapped behind the barrages instead of flowing downstream
to enrich the fields of the Mekong Delta rice farmers?



6. Efficiency
6.1      The efficiency of the project is modest. The GEF-financed project used an
incremental cost analysis in lieu of an economic or financial rate of return calculation.
The incremental cost assessment is based on the assumption that the GEF grant would
help the MRC develop and use water utilization rules and analytical tools necessary for
sustainable management and development of water resources in the Basin in order to
garner substantial specific global environmental benefits. From the point of view of
achieving global environmental benefits, this project was only modestly efficient since
very little progress was made on the implementation of the rules and application of the
tools to achieve this aim.

6.2     The efficiency of the Water Utilization Project was constrained by a lack of
planned donor coordination and sequencing. The project attracted a significant level of
parallel financing. Parallel financing totaled US$5.6 million, including US$4.01 million
from Finland, US$1.0 million from Japan and US$0.59 million from France. While the
leveraged finance is significant, each contribution supported a separate working
arrangement within the MRC. The sequencing of activities, although not entirely due to
project planning, also caused inefficiencies in project implementation. The
implementation of the GEF project, with its focus on facilitating MRC member
agreement around a set of “Rules? and “Procedures,? outpaced other areas of work at the
MRC that were recognized at project design as being critical to achieving MRC’s long-
term goals.
                                             14


7. Ratings
Outcome
7.1     The overall outcome of the Water Utilization Project is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory. While the project’s objectives were and remain substantially relevant,
project design was only modestly relevant. The project partially achieved its objective of
assisting the MRC to establish mechanisms, but by and large they are not yet being used
to promote and improve coordinated and sustainable water management in the Basin. It
supported the development and negotiation of a set of Rules to help facilitate the
implementation of the Mekong Agreement. However, consensus was not reached on key
technical guidelines, or minimum flow and quality levels, that are needed to achieve the
project objective of ensuring coordinated and sustainable water management in the
Mekong Basin. Project efficiency, hampered by a lack of donor coordination and poor
sequencing, was also modest.

Risk to Development Outcome
7.2     There are significant risks associated with the development outcomes supported
by the project. Foremost among these is a risk of non-cooperation, or the “business as
usual? scenario whereby unilateral or bilateral decisions are taken at the expense of the
common regional good. Chapter 2 of the 1995 Mekong Agreement stipulates that the
regional decision-making process is ?neither a right to veto the use nor unilateral right to
use water by any riparian country without taking into account other riparian’s rights.?
States are obligated to negotiate in good faith – but the liberal interpretation of states’
obligations under the agreement, due in large part to the failure to agree on clear and
binding technical guidelines – has already surfaced as a cause for concern.

7.3     There are also risks associated with sustaining and enhancing the capacity of the
MRC technical teams over team due to a a staff rule attached to the Mekong Agreement
(Article 33) that imposes a limit on the number of years a staff member can be retained.
Although the focus of the rule is meant to direct built capacity to the member countries, it
has left critical gaps in the technical capacity of the Secretariat.

7.4    Risk to Development Outcome is rated Significant.

Bank Performance
7.5     Quality at Entry: Moderately Unsatisfactory. While the project was well-aligned
with the MRC’s first Strategic Plan, quality of entry was undermined by the way the
project inputs were structured and used. In the initial part of the project these inputs could
have been better used to design a facilitation framework for country-level decision-
makers. Once in place, the framework could have been used to facilitate better
understanding of the pros and cons of international obligations of members. Interviews
conducted for this review suggested that it may have been more effective to have first
supported workshops at the country level (with decision-makers, technician, and
members of civil society) through informal meetings in order to increase awareness about
                                                   15


basin dynamics before proceeding to support international negotiations. 8 Project
conception paid adequate attention to building capacity within the MRC Secretariat but
not enough within the line ministries of the member countries.

7.6      Bank Supervision: Satisfactory. The Bank provided technical guidance in the
development of hydrological models, monitored the progress of establishing water
utilization rules and coordinated with donors in the provision of project funds. The Bank
participated in donor consultation group meetings and key management meetings
organized by the MRC, during which it provided policy advice. During the last two years
(2007-2008), the Bank task management team had been decentralized to the field and
focus shifted to finalizing the transitional arrangements, increasing capacity building at
the country level, and developing the concept for a follow up operation in order to
consolidate and further the results achieved under the project.

7.7     Overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory

Borrower Performance
7.8     Government Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project
involved the four governments of the member countries as bodies constituting the MRC:
Thailand, Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Vietnam. All four countries cooperated with the
MRC in implementing the project: the countries assigned qualified staff to establish a
riparian team at the Commission, established a national team within their respective
National Mekong Committees, and provided adequate human and financial resources.
However, while all of the Rules have now been adopted, the factor that has most
constrained effective implementation of the project has been the intractability of positions
concerning agreement on the technical guidelines.

7.9      Implementing Agency Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The
Mekong River Commission showed strong commitment to the project objectives.
Leadership was demonstrated by the MRC when it recently commissioned a Strategic
Environmental Assessment to shed more light on transboundary environmental issues
that may be affected by hydropower development planning in the Basin. The MRC has
also recently begun to develop an M&E framework to measure organizational goals.
Human resource capacity of the MRC was modest and, because of staff rotation rules,
trained staff often had to leave the project after a few years. Though largely outside the
control of the project, this did affect capacity. More could have been done by the MRC
to disseminate the results of the project both nationally and among civil society across the
riparian member countries.

7.10    Overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.




8. As also discussed in the World Bank’s Final Supervision Mission June 16-18th, 2008.
                                           16


8. Lessons
   The development of a Decision Support Framework to assist Mekong countries
    make more informed decisions about water resource management has
    demonstrated the opportunities and limits of bringing scientific and technical
    innovation to bear in an environment fraught with political economy constraints.
    The premise that water resource management decisions could be based on
    scientifically determined acceptable levels of water flow and quality and that
    subsequent modeling could be used to evaluate Basin proposals in line with a
    minimum set of flow and quality criteria proved to be too constraining. Rather, the
    models have been used to determine the winners and losers of proposed basin
    development and subsequent negotiations have focused on individual, rather than
    collective interests.

   Human Resource development at the national level is critical for the effective
    implementation of international and regional water resource agreements.
    Participating nations require strong water expertise. Donor programs that seek to
    support effective implementation of water resource agreements at the international
    and regional level should consider how to support skills enhancement and training of
    water engineers, hydrological experts, water resource planners, and social and
    environmental specialists correspondingly at the national level.
                                          17


References
Cronin, Richard and Timothy Hamlin. 2010. “Mekong Tipping Point: Hydropower
Dams, Human Security and Regional Stability.? Washington, DC: The Henry L. Stimson
Center.
Grimbine, R. Edward and Jianchu Xu. 2011. “Mekong Hydropower Development.?
Science. Vol. 332 no. 6026 pp. 178-179.
Hawkesworth, Nigel, and others. 2007. “Independent Organizational, Financial, and
Institutional Review of the Mekong River Commission Secretariat and the National
Mekong Committees.? Final Report. January.
Kummu, Matti, Juha Sarkkula, Jorma Koponen, and Jussi Nikula. 2006. ?Ecosystem
Management of the Tonle Sap Lake: An Integrated Modeling Approach.? International
Journal of Water Resources Development. 22(3): 497-519.
MRCS/ WUP. 2006. Mid-year 2006 Progress Report – Water Utilization Programme
Start-up Project.? Washington, DC. World Bank.
MRCS/ WUP. 2008. Draft Implementation Completion Report. “Water Utilization
Programme Start-up Project.?. Washington, DC. World Bank.
MRCS/WUP-FIN. 2007. Final Report - Part 2: ?Research findings and recommendations
- Hydrological, Environmental and socio-Economic Modelling Tools for the Lower
Meking Basin Impact Assessment.? Helsinki, Finland. Finnish Environment Institute.
Radosevich, George and Geoff Wright. 2007, “Independent Evaluation of the Water
Utilization Program Final Report.? Washington, DC. World Bank.
Sokhem, Pech, and Kengo Sunada. 2006. “The Governance of the Tonle Sap Lake,
Cambodia: Integration of Local, National and International Levels.? International
Journal of Water Resources Development 22(3): 399-416.
Varis, Olli, and Marko Keskinen. 2006. “Policy Analysis for the Tonle Sap Lake,
Cambodia: A Bayesian Network Model Approach.? International Journal of Water
Resources Development 22(3): 417 – 431.
White, Ian. 2002. “Water Management in the Mekong Delta: Changes, Conflicts and
Opportunities.? IHP-VI Technical Documents in Hydrology No. 61 UNESCO, Paris.
World Bank. 2009. Implementation Completion and Results Report. 2009 . “Regional
Program Mekong Water Utilization Project.? Washington, DC. World Bank.
World Bank. 2010. Project Appraisal Document “Adaptable Programmatic Lending
(APL): Mekong Integrated Water Resources and Management Project – First Tranche.?
Washington, DC. World Bank.
                                                 18


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
Mekong River Commission -Water Utilization Project– P045864
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                 Appraisal                 Actual or              Actual as % of
                                 estimate               current estimate         appraisal estimate
Total project costs                   16.3                     18.43                   114%
Loan amount                           11.0                     10.9                       99%
Cofinancing (parallel)                 2.8                      5.6                    114%
Cancellation                           -                       57.9                        -
Borrower                               2.5                     1.83                       73%


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05                     FY06     FY07     FY08        FY09
Appraisal        0.5     1.7   3.7         5.5    7.3    9.5          11    11        11         11
estimate
(US$M)
Actual           0.2     1.2   3.2         4.8    6.4    7.6       9.2     10.6      10.8       10.9
(US$M)
Actual as %     52%      71%   86%       87%     88%     80%      84%      96%       98%        99%
of appraisal
Date of final disbursement: 07/02/2008


Project Dates
                                     Original/Planned                            Actual
Negotiations                             08/23/1999                         11/01/1999
Board approval                           11/23/1999                         02/03/2000
Signing                                  03/03/2000                         02/29/2000
Effectiveness                              03/30/2000                       03/30/2000
Closing date                             06/30/2007                         06/30/2008
                                                19


Staff Input (staff weeks)
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project            No. of staff weeks                USD Thousand (including travel
Cycle                                                             and consultant costs)
Lending
FY98                              n.a.                           122.74
FY99                              n.a.                           76.75
FY00                             20.36                           80.27
Total:                             -                             279.76
Supervision/ICR
FY00                              1.90                            7.85
FY01                             17.88                           83.47
FY02                             17.08                           76.39
FY03                             17.62                           71.52
FY04                             15.61                           78.91
FY05                              8.97                           43.36
FY06                             15.23                           97.81
FY07                             15.95                           71.26
FY08                             10.72                           42.55
FY09                              9.37                           62.44
Total:                           130.33                          635.56
n.a. – Not available

Mission Data
Name                     Title                                                    Unit
Lending
Toru Konishi             Senior Economist                                         EASIN
Cuong Hung Pham          Senior Water Resources Management Specialist             EASIN
Bun Vesana               Infrastructure Operations officer                        EASTS
Khamlar Phonsavat        Climate Change Specialist                                EASTS
Manida Unkulvasapaul     Consultant (Environmental Specialist)                    EASTS
Vanna Nil                Social Development Specialist                            EASTS
Marjory Ann Bromhead     Adviser                                                  ARD
Sybounheuang             Social Development Specialist                            EASTS
Phanadanouvong
Edward Charles Anderson Remote Sensing Specialist                                 EASIN
Viengkeo Phetnavongxay   Natural Resources Management Specialist                  EASTS
Oithip Mongkolsawat      Senior Procurement Specialist                            EAPPR
Kannathee Danaisawat     Senior Financial Management Specialist                   EAPEM
                                           20


Name                   Title                                                Unit
Chinnakorn Chantra     Senior Procurement Specialist                        EAPEM
Seida Hang             Financial Management Specialist                      EAPFM
Ron Zweig              Consultant (Fisheries Management Specialist)         EASIN
Garry Thorncrafdt      Consultant (Fisheries Migration Specialist           EASIN
Manuel Cocco           Consultant (Project Analyst)                         EASIN
Philippe Floch         Consultant (Water Resources Management               EASIN
                       Specialist)
Phillippe Cacot        Consultant (Aquaculture Specialist)                  FAO/CP
Thalavanh              Program Assistant                                    EACLF
Mara T. Branson        Consultant (Private Sector Development Specialist)   EASIN
Sandra Waltson         Program Assistant                                    EASIN
Supervision/ICR
Guy J. Alaerts         Lead Water Resources Specialist                      EASRE
Greg J. Browder        Sr. Water Resources Spec.                            LCSUW
Toru Konishi           Senior Economist                                     EASRE
Chinnakorn Chantra     Procurement Specialist                               EAPCO
Kannathee Danaisawat   Financial Management Specialist                      EAPCO
Yoshiharu Kobayashi    Sr. Water Resources Specialist                       MNSSD
Oithip Mongkolsawat    Senior Procurement Specialist                        EAPCO
Douglas C. Olson       Lead Water Resource Specialist                       LCSEN
Cuong Hung Pham        Senior Operations Officer                            EASVS
Manida Unkulvasapaul   Sr. Environmental Specialist                         EASRE
                                                           21


       Annex B. Persons Consulted
Name                      Position                                         Location
Mekong River Commission Secretariat
                          Chief Executive Officer                          Vientiane, Lao PDR
Mr. Jeremy Bird
Ms. Klomjit               Chief of International Cooperation and           Vientiane, Lao PDR
Chandrapanya              Communication Section

Mr. Vithet Srinetr        Officer-in-Charge of Environment Division and    Vientiane, Lao PDR
                          Basin Development Plan

Vietnam
Dr. Le Duc Trung          Secretary General                                Vietnam National Mekong
                                                                           Committee
Hoang Viet Khang          Deputy Director                                  Ministry of Planning and
                                                                           Investment
Minister Mr. Cao Duc      Minister                                         Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Phat                                                                       Development
                                                                           International Cooperation
Mr. Luong The Phiet       Director General                                 Department, Ministry of
                                                                           Agriculture and Rural Development
                          Vice Minister of Natural Resources and
Mr. Nguyen Thai Lai       Environment; Chairman of Viet Nam National       Ministry of Natural Resources and
                          Mekong Committee; Member of the MRC              Environment
                          Council for Viet Nam

Mme. Tran Thi Minh Ha     Director, International Cooperation Department   Ministry of Natural Resources and
                                                                           Environment
Cambodia
His Excellency Sin Niny   Permanent Vice -Chairman                         Cambodia National Mekong
                                                                           Committee
                          Secretary General
                                                                           Cambodia National Mekong
H.E. Mr. Pich Dun         Chairperson of the MRC Joint Committee for
                                                                           Committee
                          2010/2011,
                          Acting Member of the MRC Joint Committee
                          for Cambodia
Dr Son Lam Hung           Program Coordinator for Flood Management         Mekong River Commission, Phnom
                          and Mitigation Program                           Penh, Cambodia

H.E. Mr. Lim Kean Hor     Minister of Water Resources and Meteorology      Ministry of Water Resources and
                                                                           Meteorology

Lao PDR
                          (FMMP)
Mme. Monemany             Permanent Secretary, Water Resource and
Nhoybouakong                                                               Lao National Mekong Committee
                          Environment Administration, Member of the
                                                                           Secretariat
                          MRC Joint Committee for Lao PDR
                                                         22


Name                      Position                                         Location
Mme. Thipphakone          Director General, Department for External        Ministry of Finance
Chanthavongsa             Finance                                          Lao PDR


                          Director General, Department for International   Ministry of Planning and
Mr. Somchith Inthamith                                                     Investment
                          Cooperation
                                                                           Lao PDR

                                                                           Ministry of Public Works and
H.E. Sommad Pholsena
                          Minister of Public Works and Transport           Transport
                                                                           Lao PDR
H.E. Mme. Khempeng                                                         Ministry of Water Resources and
Phonlsena                 Minister of Water Resources and Environment
                                                                           Environment Agency
                          Agency
                                                                           Lao PDR
                                                                           Ministry of Agriculture and
H.E. Sitaheng Rasphone
                          Minister of Agriculture and Forestry             Forestry
                                                                           Lao PDR
Mr. Xaypaseuth
                          Director General, Department of Energy           Ministry of Energy and Mines
Phomsoupha
                          Promotion and Development (EPD)                  Lao PDR

                                                                           Ministry of Public Works and
H.E. Sommad Pholsena
                          Minister of Public Works and Transport           Transport
                                                                           Lao PDR
Dr Phouang Parisak                                                         Ministry of Agriculture and
Pravongviengkham          Director of the Planning Department              Forestry
                                                                           Lao PDR
Thailand
                          Minister of Natural Resources and                Ministry of Natural Resources and
H.E. Mr Suwit Khunkitti   Environment/Chairman of Thai National            Environment
                          Mekong Committee/Member of the MRC
                          Council for Thailand/Chairman of the MRC         Thailand
                          Council for 2009/2010

                          Permanent Secretary/ Vice Chairman of Thai       Ministry of National Resources and
                          National Mekong Committee, Member of the         Environment
Mr. Chote Trachu
                          MRC Joint Committee for Thailand, Thai
                          National Mekong Committee                        Thailand


World Bank                Chairman of Thai National Mekong Committee
Annette Dixon             Country Director, Thailand, Lao PDR,             World Bank
                          Member of the MRC Council for Thailand
                          Cambodia
Jeeva Perumalpillai-      Sustainable Development Leader, Southeast        World Bank
                          Chairman of the MRC Council for 2009/2010
Essex                     Asia Sustainable Development
                                                                           East Asia & Pacific Sector Units,
Steve Jaffee              Lead Rural Development Specialist                Vietnam Sustainable Development,
                                                                           World Bank
                                                    23


Name                Position                                      Location
                                                                  East Asia & Pacific Sector Units,
Douglas J. Graham   Senior Environment Specialist                 Vietnam Sustainable Development,
                                                                  World Bank
Toru Konishi                                                      East Asia & Pacific Sector Units,
                    Senior Economist
                                                                  Sustainable Development, World
                                                                  Bank
Bilaterals
Ms. Helena Ahola    Counsellor, Head of Development Cooperation   Embassy of Finland
Hubert Jenny        Principal Urban Development Specialist        Asian Development Bank
Jelle van Gijn      Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Adviser     Asian Development Bank
                    NNam Resident Mission
John Dore           Senior Water Resources Advisor - Mekong       Australian Agency for International
                    Region                                        Development (AusAID)
Academia
                    Associate Professor and Director of Vietnam   Vietnam Institute of Meteorology,
Dr. Tran Thuc       Institute of Meteorology, Environment         Hydro Vietnam Institute of
                    (IMHEN)                                       Meteorology, Hydrology and
                                                                  Environment
NGOs
Ms. Rebecca Y. Ng   Program Officer                               World Wildlife Fund
                    Greater Mekong’s Infrastructure Coordinator   World Wildlife Fund, Vientiane,
Mr. Marc Goichot                                                  Lao PDR
                      24


Annex C. Borrower Comments
                                              25


Borrower comments were received from the Cambodia National Mekong Committee on June
14th, 2012 in the form of track changes to the original document which are presented here in
the chronological order in which they appeared in the text.

Preface

“This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of the Water Utilization Project
(TF-23406), financed by a Global Environment Facility grant of US$11 million made
available to the Mekong River Commission. The grant was approved in February 2000 and
closed in June 2008, a year later than planned, at which time US$57,749 was cancelled. The
Mekong River Commission is a river basin organization involving the governments of
Cambodia, Lao PDR, Thailand, and Vietnam and (China and Myanmar are observers) that
provides assistance and advice to member countries on the development, utilization,
conservation, and management of the Mekong River Basin water and related resources.
China and Myanmar are observers. Its headquarters are located in Vientiane, Laos, and
Phnom Penh, Cambodia.?

Summary
“Following the Cambodian Peace Agreement in 1992, Cambodia requested readmission* to
the Committee. In 1995, the original members of the Mekong Committee (Cambodia, Laos,
Thailand, and Vietnam) signed the Agreement on Cooperation for the Sustainable
Development of the Mekong River Basin.?

*The comments requested that the word readmission be replaced with the word reactivation.

“It is composed of a Secretariat, with 150 staff members, split between two Secretariat
offices in Phnom Penh, Cambodia and Vientiane, Lao PDR and four National Mekong
Committees, comprised of Government representatives and technical staff, located within
each of the member countries.?

*The comments requested that the sentence clarify that the 150 staff members include staff
within the National Mekong Committees.

“However, consensus was not reached on key technical guidelines, on minimum flow and
quality levels, that are needed to achieve the project objective of ensuring coordinated and
sustainable water management in the Mekong Basin. The premise built into the Mekong
Agreement is that Parties would be able to define clear-cut criteria on water flows and quality
and establish basin standards; and that, with those consensus rules in hand, they could assess
the compliance of any proposed development project. But no one party has wanted to pre-
commit to criteria that would result in automatic approval or rejection of a development
project. Rather, parties to the Agreement used the outputs of the model supported (DSF) by
the project to assess the cumulative impacts of the countries development plans against
the range of economic, social and environmental criteria. The model was also used to
establish and agree among the member countries on the hydrological basis for the
assessment of development projects. specific development projects.?

*Comments requested that the bolded changes are made to the preceding paragraph.
                                           26


Ratings in the Summary

The Outcome of the project is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory???, based on the
assessment of the relevance of the objectives and design, efficacy, and efficiency. Although
the objective of the project was substantially relevant, the relevance of design was modest
since it was based on the unrealistic premise that a fully scientific approach could replace
case-by-case negotiations. Additionally, the project design did not pay adequate attention to
national level adoption and implementation of project outputs, and did not put in place
sufficient mechanisms to extend knowledge generated by the modeling to water use decision-
makers outside of the National Mekong Committee structures it is not clear expression,
please clarify. Project efficiency, hampered by a lack of donor coordination and poor
sequencing, was also modest. There are also significant risks associated with the
development outcomes supported by this project. Foremost amongst these is a risk of non-
cooperation it is not clear expression, please clarify, or the “business as usual? scenario
whereby unilateral or bilateral decisions are taken to the detriment of the regional good.

*The comments questioned the project rating and asked for further clarification.

Lessons

“The development of a Decision Support Framework to assist Mekong countries make more
informed decisions about water resource management has demonstrated the opportunities and
limits of bringing scientific and technical innovation to bear in an environment fraught
with political economy constraints it is not clear expression, please clarify!!!. The
premise that scientifically determined acceptable levels of water flow and quality and related
modeling could replace case-by-case, negotiated water resource management decisions
proved unrealistic. Rather, the models have been used to determine the winners and losers of
proposed basin development projects in the context of negotiations that have focused on
country-specific, rather than basin-wide interests.?

“ Human Resource development at the national level is critical for the effective
implementation of the 1995 MA. international and regional water resource agreements.
Participating nations require strong water expertise. Donor programs that seek to support
effective implementation of water resource agreements at the international and regional level
should consider how to support skills enhancement and training of water engineers,
hydrological experts, water resource planners, and social and environmental specialists
correspondingly at the national level.?

*The comments asked for the preceding clarifications to be made.

Background

The river flows south from China’s Yunnan province alongside the Myanmar-Laos and the
Thai-Laos borders, and then descends onto the Cambodian flood plain, where it is regulated
by the storage of the Tonlé Sap, a large lake that contracts and expands seasonally from
2,700 km² to 16,000 km² in response to flooding from the head reaches of the river.
                                              27


“?Laos contributes 35 percent, Cambodia 18 percent and Thailand 18 percent. China
contributes 16 percent while Vietnam contributes 11 percent and Myanmar only 2 percent.?
Comments requested that “upstream and downstream? be added.

“Following the Cambodian Peace Agreement in 1992, Cambodia requested readmission to
the Committee?

*The comments requested that the word readmission be replaced with the word reactivation.

MAP of the Mekong

*The comments requested that the Map be corrected.

Chapter 2

“Funds were split between facilitating the negotiation of the water use and quality rules and
building a basin planning model, but only a small amount of finance and priority was placed
in supporting the work of the Environment Division in the Mekong River Commission
Secretariat.?

The purpose was to integrate the project under this line division, and achieve better
coordination and increase synergy with the UNDP-supported Basin Development Program,
which aimed at developing a series of scenarios regarding infrastructure development and
water utilization.

“The project supported an internship program which engaged junior water resources
engineers nominated by the member countries in developing the hydrological, simulation
and hydro-dynamic models. These engineers have since returned to the National Mekong
Committee (NMCs) of their respective governments. Also, during the project extension
period, the Project focused on increasing the technical capacity of the NMCs by developing
hydrological, simulation and hydro-dynamic models at the national level. The project
implemented a case study approach where technical experts of the MRC and the government
staff jointly developed detailed and focused hydrological, simulation and hydro-dynamic
models for high priority areas of development (for example, hydropower, flood mitigation,
irrigation).?

The Procedure on Notification, Prior Consultation, and Agreement recently has been tested
with the commencement of the construction of the 1,260 megawatt Xayaburi dam in Lao
PDR, estimated to cost US$3.5 billion. Prior Consultation among the member states between
November 2010-April 2011 resulted in a request by some member countries to postpone the
building of the dam. Cambodia claimed that the prior-consultation was not finished and that
the additional study would be required and the result is further consulted to fill the
knowledge gap on hydrology, sediment transport, fisheries, trans-boundary and
cumulative impact. Vietnam cited the concern that its fisheries could experience a
decline by 200,000-400,000 tons per year due to negative effects of the dam. As a result,
Vietnam endorsed a 10-year moratorium on dam building in the lower Mekong Basin – a key
recommendation of a Strategic Environmental Assessment commissioned by the MRC
during the project period.
                                          28


“Overall cooperation, including data and information sharing between China and the MRC
member states, has been partially enhanced under project support for the MRC.?

*Comments requested that the text recognize that there is an on-going Agreement on sharing
of hydrological data during flood season between China and MRC.
